                                      South Salt Lake City Council
                                      REGULAR MEETING AGENDA

  Public notice is hereby given that the South Salt Lake City Council will hold a Regular Meeting on
  Wednesday, March 12, 2025, in the City Council Chambers, 220 East Morris Avenue, Suite 200,
  commencing at 7:00 p.m., or as soon thereafter as possible.

  To watch the meeting live click the link below to join:
  https://zoom.us/j/93438486912

   Watch recorded City Council meetings at: youtube.com/@SouthSaltLakeCity

  Conducting                                                                     Sharla Bynum, District 3
  Council Chair                                                                  Sharla Bynum
  Sergeant at Arms                                                               South Salt Lake PD

Opening Ceremonies
      1. Welcome/Introductions                                                   Sharla Bynum
      2. Pledge of Allegiance                                                    Corey Thomas

Approval of Minutes
      February 12th, Work Meeting
      February 26th, Work Meeting
      February 26th, Regular Meeting

No Action Comments
      1. Scheduling                                                              City Recorder
      2. Public Comments/Questions
              a. Response to Comments/Questions
                 (at the discretion of the conducting Council Member)
      3. Mayor Comments
      4. City Attorney Comments
      5. City Council Comments
      6. Information
           a. Proclamation: City of Kindness, One Kind Act a Day                 Mayor Wood
           b. Promise South Salt Lake Presentation: CADCA Trip and YAGI          Youth City Council
           c. Critical Home Repair Program & Partnership                         Rebecca Yund

Action Items
Appointments by the Mayor
      1. Tom Mills – Civilian Review Board Alternate Member                      Mayor Wood

Unfinished Business
      1. An Ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council                        Eliza Ungricht
          Enacting Chapter 4.05 of the South Salt Lake Municipal
          Code and Amending Chapters 4.04, 4.08, 4.12, 4.16, 4.20,
          4.24, 4.28, 4.32, 17.01, 17.03, and 17.06 of the South Salt
          Lake City Municipal Code to Regulate Short Term Rentals
          and to Correct Technical Errors


See page two for continuation of Agenda
South Salt Lake Regular Meeting Agenda                     March 12, 2025 Page 2
      2. An Ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council                    Spencer Cawley
           Amending Section 17.10.120 of the South Salt Lake
           City Municipal Code to Include a Standard Road Profile
           for Haven Avenue Between Main Street and State Street
           in the Downtown District

New Business
     1. An Ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council                         Mayor Wood
         Amending Section 2.70.030 of the South Salt Lake
         City Municipal Code Related to Compensation for
         Civilian Review Board Members

       2. An Ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council                       Mayor Wood
          Setting the Compensation for Civilian Review Board Members

       3. A Resolution of the South Salt Lake City Council                       Sharen Hauri
          Authorizing the Mayor to Execute an Interlocal
          Cooperation Agreement with Salt Lake County
          Providing for the Transfer of up to Five Hundred
          Thousand Dollars ($500,000) to Support the Identification
          of Active Transportation Infrastructure Opportunities Between
          2100 South and I-80 in Downtown South Salt Lake City

Motion for Closed Meeting

Adjourn


Posted March 7, 2025

Those needing auxiliary communicative aids or other services for this meeting should contact
Ariel Andrus at 801-483-6019, giving at least 24 hours’ notice.

In accordance with State Statute and Council Policy, one or more Council Members may be connected
electronically.

                                   Public Comments/Question Policy
Time is made available for anyone in the audience to address the Council and/or Mayor concerning
matters pertaining to City business. When a member of the audience addresses the Council and/or
Mayor, they will come to the podium and state their name and City they reside in. The Public will be
asked to limit their remarks/questions to three (3) minutes each. The conducting Council Member shall
have discretion as to who will respond to a comment/question. In all cases the criteria for response will
be that comments/questions must be pertinent to City business, that there are no argumentative
questions and no personal attacks. Some comments/questions may have to wait for a response until
the next regular council meeting. The conducting Council Member will inform a citizen when they have
used the allotted time. Grievances by City employees must be processed in accordance with adopted
personnel rules.

Have a question or concern? Call the connect line 801-464-6757 or email connect@sslc.gov
SSL YOUTH CITY COUNCIL -
    YOUTH ADVOCACY
     GRANT INITIATIVE
Grant Overview
The SSL Youth City Council was awarded
$41,500 in grant funds from the Salt Lake
County Health Department to:

   Attend the Community Anti-Drug
   Coalitions of America (CADCA) National
   Leadership Forum in the Washington
   DC area. ($21,500)

   Implement an advocacy project that
   builds leadership skills and prevention
   knowledge for participating youth and
   makes a positive impact in our
   community. Participate in 4 trainings
   ($20,000)
Trainings
Youth and Staff are required to participate
in the following trainings as part of the
grant:

   Youth Advocacy Bootcamp (youth)
      Completed: Nov 13, 2024

   Social Development Strategy (staff)
      Completed Nov 13, 2024

   Project Management (youth and staff)
       Completed: Dec 9, 2024

   Public Speaking (youth)
      Scheduled: March 21, 2025
CADCA
5 youth and 3 staff went to Washington DC and
attended The Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of
America National Leadership Forum from
February 2 -7. This is a conference that brings
community coalitions together to strengthen
community capacity and help youth gain the skills
and training necessary to help them help make
their community safe, healthy, and drug free.

Sessions Included:
   People, Persuasion, and Power: Unleashing
   Your Communication Skills
   Tension with Tech: Tackling Tech's Toll on
   Teens
   Video Games, Gambling, and Social Media:
   Understanding and Preventing Compulsive
   Tech Use
Washington DC
Additionally, we had the opportunity to do
some sightseeing and visit national landmarks
and museums including:

   United States Holocaust Memorial Museum

   National Museum of African American
   History and Culture

   National Museum of Natural History

   National Gallery of Art

   National Archives
Project Overview
Our Youth City Council will be developing a youth
led podcast series focused on substance use
prevention risk and protective factors with an
emphasis on raising awareness and providing
resources while reducing stigma about having
conversations about these topics.

This project and approach will allow youth to
discuss critical issues, share empowering stories,
and learn from content area experts.

The podcast will feature 6 episodes and the
group will host a community launch event.
 - Ep 1: Introduction     - Ep 4: School
 - Ep 2: Community        - Ep 5: Personal
 - Ep 3: Family           - Ep 6: Wrap up
Funding
A majority of the funds received will be used to
purchase equipment, software, and materials to
upgrade a space in our community center to
create a podcast studio.

This will not only provide what is needed for this
specific project, but also will allow for future use
because the equipment and space can be made
available for use by other groups in our
community center into the future

Additional funding will be used for a community
event, marketing, recruitment, swag and
incentives.
Community Involvement
We plan to collaborate with local experts,
community organizations, other youth, and
parents to create engaging episodes that provide
informative and encouraging content.

What we need
  Connections to individuals/organizations who
  can talk about risk and protective factors
  under one of each of the SUP domains:
  Community, Family, School, and Personal
  Help getting the word out
  Community members including teens and
  families to submit questions, share stories,
  and listen to the podcast
  Support by showing up to the launch event -
  Date TBD
Carin Crowe, MSW
CEO
Habitat for Humanity Greater Salt Lake Area
Carin@HabitatSaltLake.org
Our Mission
Seeking to put love into action,
  Habitat for Humanity brings
people together to build homes,
    community and hope.
       Habitat Salt Lake Area
    Habitat for Humanity Greater Salt Lake Area
    Founded in 1986. Serving Salt Lake, Tooele, and Davis Counties

Four Pillars of Service

• Affordable Homeownership

•    Service Team for Exterior Repairs (STEP)

• ReStore

• Global Initiatives

• Critical Home Repair Program (CHiRP)
Affordable
Homeownership
The ReStore
Global
Initiatives
    Critical Home Repair Program
               (CHiRP)
•   Addresses health and safety concerns in the home.
•   14+ years of program experience.
•   We have helped over 1100 people over the course of the program.
•   This includes children, seniors, veterans, and people with disabilities
    and/or chronic illnesses.
                       How it works
•   Our ChiRP team performs a 100-point inspection of the home.
•   The team then creates a project scope of work and manages all
    construction details.
•   Qualifying applicants may receive a grant up to $20,000.
•   Remainder is repaid, interest free, when the name on the title
    changes.
•   The funds from SoFi will support 6 repairs @ $5k each.
                          Eligibility
• U.S Citizen/legal resident
• Owns home
• Home must be on a foundation
• Live in South Salt Lake City
• Serves households below 80% AMI
• Damaged or worn-out roof
    • Leaks cause mold, mildew, and interior damage.
    • Can harm structural integrity.
• Missing Gutters
    • Poor drainage causes exterior damage and moisture in the home.
• Window replacement
    • Fire hazards
    • Poor air quality
    • Mold, mildew
• Plumbing
    • Can create internal structural damages
    • Lead to mold and mildew
    • Pest infestations
• Electrical
    • Fire hazards
    • Prevents proper heating in the winter and cooling in the summer.
 Critical Home Repair Program
            (CHiRP)
• We sent a postcard mailing to a targeted group of South Salt Lake
  City residents in February 2025.
• The program highlight in your newsletter = Results.
• Increase in inquiries and requests for the program.

• In the past 12 months we have completed 8 projects in SSL totaling
  $111,727.59 (average $13,965.00).
• We have an additional 5 in process at this time.
You may be eligible for up to
      $20,000
in critical repairs for your home!




Habitat for Humanity’s

Critical Home
Repair Program
can help keep your home safe, accessible, & up-to-code.



How does it work?                                     Who is eligible?

 Once a completed application                         Homeowners in
is approved, we will schedule a                Salt Lake, Davis, & Tooele
 home assessment to identify                         counties who meet
   critical repairs throughout                     income guidelines and
            your home.                           additional requirements.


What can we fix?                                      How much is it?

Furnace
                                                    A grant up to $20,000
                                                                   $15,000
A/C                                                    may be utilized
Accessibility                                        toward your project
Mold                        Call us. Or scan          on eligible items.
Water Heater                 the QR code
Roof                        below to learn
Plumbing                         more:                   Contact Us
Flooring
                                                  801-263-0136 ex. 211
Electrical
Windows                                             habitatsaltlake.org
Sample
Repair Projects


           Before                            After

                      Steps & Railings




                                          Decrease Fall Hazards
                                          Improve Accessibility
                                          Enhance Safety



  Before               After


           Furnaces                       Call us. Or scan
                                           the QR code
                                          below to learn
                                               more:




                                         801-263-0136 ex. 211
                                          habitatsaltlake.org


  Before               After


           Bathrooms
Tom Mills



Objective
To continue to share my motivation and passion for renewable energy for the greater
good of the planet.

CREATIVE ENERGIES, TECHNICAL SALES/POLICY ADVOCATE — 2017 TO PRESENT
Help residential and commercial clients understand PV and Battery Storage technology
and design it to meet their goals. Work with grassroots groups to help promote
responsible solar policy. Respond to RFPs. Two REAP Grants

ALPENGLOW SOLAR AND ELECTRIC, TECHNICAL SALES/POLICY ADVOCATE 2014 - 2017
Residential and Commercial solar sales, limited battery design

UTAH SOLAR ENERGY ASSOCIATION, 2016 -2020
Organized local solar companies to revitalize a defunct association with the mission to
work together to take on bad policy against PV Energy

UTAH GRASS ROOT GROUPS 2016 - PRESENT
Utah Clean Energy, Utah Sustainable Business Network, HEAL Utah, UCARE, Stewardship
Utah, o2 Utah, Sierra Club National and Utah chapters, Summit Reality Professionals

FACE TIME WITH UTAH LEGISLATORS 2016 - PRESENT
Sen Wayne Harper, Sen Nate Blouin, Rep Gay Lynn Bennion, Rep Sahara Hayes, Sen Kirk
Cullimore

Education
Penn State University, Journalism, Bachelors Degree

Pennsylvania College of Technology, Electronics Associate Degree

Skills
Energy Tool Base, Helioscope, OpenSolar, PV Watts Software along with Mac and PC
operating software

ACTIVITIES
Snowboarding, Whitewater, Mt Biking, Swimming, Frisbee, Pickleball (everybody’s doing it)
Paddle Boarding, Dogs & Dock Jumping
                              ORDINANCE NO. 2025-___

AN ORDINANCE OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL ENACTING CHAPTER
4.05 OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL CODE AND AMENDING CHAPTERS
4.04, 4.08, 4.12, 4.16, 4.20, 4.24, 4.28, 4.32, 17.01, 17.03, AND 17.06 OF THE SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE TO REGULATE SHORT TERM RENTALS AND
TO CORRECT TECHNICAL ERRORS.

       WHEREAS, the South Salt Lake City Council (“City Council”) is authorized to
enact, amend, or repeal ordinances governing the City of South Salt Lake (“City”)
including ordinances regulating housing and land use and development within the City;
and

      WHEREAS, City staff has proposed enactment of Chapter 4.05 of the South Salt
Lake Municipal Code (“City Code”) regulating short term rentals in the City; and

       WHEREAS, City Staff has proposed changes to chapters 4.04, 4.08, 4.12, 4.16,
4.20, 4.24, 4.28, 4.32, 17.01, 17.03, and 17.06 in the Housing and Land Use and
Development section of the City Code to regulate short-term rentals and to fix technical
errors; and

       WHEREAS, the South Salt Lake General Plan 2040 encourages the preservation
of the existing the housing in the City; and

      WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing,
pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-503 and Section 17.11.060 of City Code on
February 20, 2025, where the public had an opportunity to comment on the proposed
enactments and amendments to the City’s land use regulations; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission found that the proposed enactments and
amendments were consistent with the goals and objectives of the City’s General Plan
and in the best interests of the City and forwarded a recommendation of approval to the
City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council met in regular session on March 12, 2025, to
review, among other things, the proposed enactments and amendments to the City
Code, the Planning Commission’s recommendation, and the objections, if any,
forwarded for the Council’s review and finds that the proposed amendments are
beneficial to the City, its residents, business members, and visitors; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council hereby determines that the enactment of Chapter
4.05 and the above referenced amendments to certain chapters of Title 4 and Title 17 of
the City Code align with the City’s interests in promoting prosperity, economic and
orderly growth, and improving the comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the City.




                                        Page 1 of 54
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of South Salt
Lake as follows:

        SECTION I. Enactment and Amendment. City of South Salt Lake Municipal Code
Title 4 Housing, chapter 4.05 is hereby enacted. Additionally, chapters 4.04, 4.08, 4.12,
4.16, 4.20, 4.24, 4.28, and 4.32 and Title 17 Land Use and Development, chapters
17.01, 17.03, and 17.06 are hereby amended as outlined in Exhibit A.

       SECTION II. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of this ordinance is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court
of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this ordinance.

       SECTION III. Conflict with Existing Ordinances, Resolutions, or Policies. To the
extent that any ordinance, resolution, or policy of the City of South Salt Lake conflicts
with the provisions of this ordinance, this ordinance shall prevail.

       SECTION IV. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon the
Mayor’s signature and publication, or after fifteen (15) days or transmission to the Office
of the Mayor if neither approved nor disapproved by the Mayor, and thereafter,
publication.

      (Signatures appear on next page; remainder of page intentionally left blank)




                                         Page 2 of 54
Dated this _____day of______________2025.


                                                      BY THE CITY COUNCIL:


                                                      ___________________________________
                                                      Sharla Bynum, Council Chair

ATTEST:


_____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


City Council Vote as Recorded:
Bynum
deWolfe
Huff
Mitchell
Sanchez
Thomas
Williams


Transmitted to the Mayor’s office on this    day of                                 2025.



       Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


MAYOR’S ACTION:


       Dated this _____day of                               , 2025.



                                             Cherie Wood, Mayor
ATTEST:


Ariel Andrus, City Recorder




                                            Page 3 of 54
EXHIBIT A:
                                                     Title 4
                                                    HOUSING

                                 Chapter 4.04 GENERAL PROVISIONS

4.04.010 Purpose.
       The city council City Council of South Salt Lake finds that a large number of dwelling Dwelling units within the
city City of South Salt Lake are occupied on a rental tenancy basis. The city council City Council of South Salt Lake
also finds that pursuant to constitutional and legislative authorization, the city City is permitted to license, regulate
and enact ordinances governing rental dwellings Rental Dwellings, mobile Mobile home parks and trailer courts.
The city council City Council finds that regulation is necessary due to a history of nuisance activities by tenants
Tenants, unsanitary conditions and unfit premises. As such, a rigorous housing program is necessary in order to
improve the quality of life for residents of the city City abiding in rental dwellings Rental Dwellings and mobile
Mobile home parks.

4.04.020 Definitions.
      As used within any chapter in this title:
    "Apartment complex" means a parcel of real property, or a series of contiguous parcels sharing a common
owner Owner, containing ten or more rental dwelling Rental Dwelling units.
     "Background check" means a printed history of the tenant's criminal activity, either prepared by the Utah
Bureau of Criminal Identification, or a service which provides the same data.
      "Business license official License Official" means an employee, official or agent of the city City authorized to
review, issue, suspend and revoke business licenses and applications for licenses.
      "City" shall mean the City of South Salt Lake, Utah.
      "City Attorney" shall mean the duly appointed City Attorney.
      "City official" means any employee, official or agent of the city City authorized to administer or enforce the
provisions of the City Code.
      "Community Development Director" shall mean the duly appointed Community Development Director.
     "Complainant" shall mean a Person, including the Community Development Director, who files a complaint
under this chapter.
      "Conciliation" shall mean the attempted resolution of issues raised in a complaint filed under this chapter, or
raised in the investigation of the complaint, through informal negotiations involving the Complainant, the
respondent, and the Housing administrator.
      "Conciliation agreement" shall mean a written agreement setting forth the resolution of issues by
Conciliation under this chapter.
     "Criminal conduct" refers to both "serious Serious criminal conduct" and "minor Minor offenses" as those
terms are defined in this section.
      "Design professional" means an engineer or architect, duly and currently licensed under the laws of the state
of Utah.



                                                      Page 4 of 54
       "Discrimination" shall mean any direct or indirect exclusion, distinction, segregation, limitation, refusal,
denial, or other differentiation in the treatment of a Person or Persons because of a Person’s actual or perceived
Sexual orientation or Gender identity or because of a Person’s association with any such Person. Discrimination
shall not be interpreted to require or to grant or accord preferential treatment to any Person because of that
Person’s Sexual orientation or Gender identity.
      "Duplex" means a building arranged or designed to be occupied by two families, the structure Structure only
having two dwelling Dwelling units. Each dwelling Dwelling unit contains its own exclusive entry point, kitchen,
bathing and toilet facilities, and separate sleeping quarters. The units are divided by a permanent wall or a
doorway which may be locked on one side to the exclusion of the other.
        “Dwelling" shall mean any building or portion thereof, which is designed for use as residential purposes,
except hotels, mobile homes, and motels, which has been approved for residential use by the city’s building
official.
     “Dwelling, Primary” means the principal building, or one of the principal buildings on a Lot, that contains the
Primary Use on the Lot.
      "Engage in Business/Engaged in the Business" means to conduct, manage, or carry on any activity as Owner,
officer, agent, Manager, employer, servant, or lessee.
      "Exempt residential rental business" means the rental of a residential unit within a single structure Structure
that contains: (1) no more than four residential units, and (2) one unit which is continuously occupied by the
owner Owner.
      "Gender identity" shall mean a Person’s actual or perceived Gender identity, appearance, mannerisms, or
other characteristics of a Person with or without regard to the Person’s sex at birth.
      "Housing administrator" shall mean the Person designated by the Mayor to receive, investigate, and
conciliate complaints under this chapter, or another designated representative of the City.
    "Incident" is used in relation to "serious serious Serious criminal conduct" and " minor Minor offense" and
means an arrest or citation of a tenant Tenant or guest of an apartment complex for criminal Criminal conduct.
      "Landlord" means the owner Owner of a rental dwelling Rental Dwelling, or a manager Manager of a rental
dwelling Rental Dwelling, if the owner Owner has designated a manager Manager.
       "Manager" means an individual or entity that has entered into a formal or informal arrangement with the
owner Owner of a rental dwelling Rental Dwelling to provide management services for the unit. A manager
Manager shall be deemed an agent of the owner Owner for purposes of delivery of notices required under this
title.
      "Mayor" shall mean the duly elected or appointed and qualified Mayor of Salt Lake City.
      "Minor offense" means any criminal offense defined by state law or municipal ordinance, that can be
reasonably linked to a tenant Tenant or guest of an apartment complex, that has the apartment complex as its
locus and that is not included within the definition of "serious Serious criminal conduct." "Minor offense" includes
parking violations, as defined in Title 41, Chapter 6, Section 103, criminal trespass as defined in Title 76, Chapter 6,
Section 206 and littering as defined in Title 41, Chapter 6, Section 114 of the Utah Code.
      "Mobile home" means a factory assembled structure Structure or structures Structures equipped with the
necessary service connections and made so as to be readily movable as a unit or units on its (their) own running
gear and designed to be used as a dwelling Dwelling unit(s) without a permanent foundation. A modular home
transported on wheels to its foundation shall not be considered a mobile Mobile home.
       "Mobile home park" means a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land which has been so designed, improved or
utilized that it contains three or more mobile Mobile home lots available to the general public for the placement
thereon of mobile Mobile homes for occupancy.




                                                      Page 5 of 54
      "Owner" means the record owner Owner of the real property as listed on the records of the Salt Lake County
recorder or assessor's office, a lessor or a sub-lessor of a residential unit. A managing agent, leasing agent, or
resident manager Manager is considered an owner Owner only for purposes of notice and other communications
required or allowed under this title unless the agent or manager Manager specifies otherwise in writing in the
rental Rental agreement.
      “Owner-Occupied” means occupied by the record Owner of the property as the Owner’s Primary Residence.
      "Owner-occupied duplex Owner-Occupied Duplex" means a duplex Duplex in which one of the rental
dwellings Rental Dwellings is occupied by the record Owner of the property as the Owner's principal place of
residence.
       “Person" means any individual, receiver, assignee, trustee in bankruptcy, trust, estate, firm, co-partnership,
joint venture, club, company, joint stock company, business trust, limited liability company, corporation,
association, legal entity, society or other group of individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative,
fraternal, nonprofit or otherwise.
     "Preponderance of the evidence" means evidence that is more convincing than the evidence supporting a
contrary conclusion, as developed and explained by Utah's appellate courts.
      “Primary Resident/Residence” a Dwelling that services as someone’s primary home and is occupied for at
least 183 consecutive days in a year.
      "Real estate broker or salesperson" shall mean a principal Real estate broker, an associate Real estate
broker, or a Real estate sales agent as those terms are defined in Utah Code Section 61-2-2 or any successor
provision.
      "Religious organization" shall mean a religious corporation, association, educational institution, society, trust,
or any entity or association, which is a wholly owned or controlled subsidiary or agency of any religious
corporation, association, society, trust or corporation sole.
     "Rent" shall mean to lease, sublease, let, or otherwise grant for a consideration the right to occupy premises
not owned by the occupant.
     "Rental agreement" means any agreement, written or oral, which establishes or modifies the terms,
conditions, rules or any other provision regarding the use and occupancy of a residential rental unit Rental
Dwelling.
      "Rental dwelling Dwelling" means a building or portion of building that is:
      1.    Used or designated for use as a residence by one or more persons Persons, and includes the
            appurtenances, grounds, and facilities held out for the use of the residential renter Renter generally, as
            well as any other area or facility provided to the renter Renter in the rental Rental agreement; and
      2.    Available to be rented, loaned, leased or hired out for a period of one month or longer; or
      3.    Arranged, designed, or built to be rented, loaned, leased, or hired out for a period of one month or
            longer.
     Rental dwelling Rental Dwelling includes single Single family rentals, duplexes Duplexes, owner-occupied
duplexes Owner-Occupied Duplexes and apartments. Rental Dwelling does not include Short-Term Rentals.
       "Rental dwelling Rental Dwelling unit" means a residential unit held out for lease to the public, which is part
of or inside of a rental dwelling Rental Dwelling containing at least one other unit for lease.
      "Rental property" means the premises on which are located residential rental dwellings Rental Dwellings and
for which there is a single owner Owner, including all rental dwellings Rental Dwellings, common and parking
areas, driveways, walkways, yards, plazas and stairwells.
     "Renter" means any person Person entitled under a rental Rental agreement to occupy a rental dwelling
Rental Dwelling to the exclusion of others.



                                                      Page 6 of 54
      "Residential real estate related transaction" shall mean the making or purchasing of loans or providing other
financial assistance for purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a Dwelling; or secured by
Residential real estate; or selling, brokering, or appraising residential real property inside the City.
      "Respondent" shall mean a Person identified in a complaint as having committed an unlawful housing
practice under this chapter.
       "Responsible Person" means the person(s) determined by the City who is responsible for causing,
maintaining, or allowing the continuation of a violation of the City code. Responsible Person shall include, but is
not limited to, a property Owner, agent, tenant, lessee, occupant, architect, builder, contractor, business owner
Owner, or other Person who individually or together with another Person is responsible for causing, maintaining,
or allowing the continuation of a violation of any provision of the City code.
       "Service building" means a building which houses toilets, lavatories, bathing facilities, a service sink, and may
also include laundry and other accommodations as may be required. Comfort of the occupant is provided for by
adequate heating, lighting and ventilation.
       "Serious criminal conduct" means any of the following that has the apartment Apartment complex as its
locus and can be reasonably linked to a tenant Tenant or guest of the apartment Apartment complex (all
references are to the Utah Code): the unlawful sale, manufacture, service, storage, distribution, dispensing or
acquisition of any controlled substance, precursor, paraphernalia or analog specified in Title 58, Chapter 37,
Controlled Substances, Chapter 37a, Paraphernalia; Chapter 37b, Imitation Controlled Substances, Chapter 37c,
Precursors or Chapter 37d, Clandestine Labs; criminal activity committed in concert with two or more persons
Persons as provided in Section 76-3-203.1; an offense involving any form of abuse of a child or violence or the
threat of violence against a person Person as defined in Title 76, Chapter 5, Offenses Against the Person; sexual
exploitation of a child as defined in Title 76, Chapter 5a, Sexual Exploitation of Children; an offense involving
intentional damage to property as defined in Title 76, Chapter 6, Part 1; an offense relating to burglary of a
building or vehicle or possession of burglary tools as defined in Title 76, Chapter 6, Part 2; an offense involving any
form of robbery as defined in Title 76, Chapter 6, Part 3; an offense involving any form of theft as defined in Title
76, Chapter 9, Part 4; riot, disorderly conduct or failure to disperse as defined in Title 76, Chapter 9, Part 1; an
offense involving any form of animal fighting as defined in Title 76, Chapter 9, Part 3; an offense involving
intoxication or any form of lewdness or voyeurism as defined in Title 76, Chapter 9, Part 7; an offense involving a
dangerous weapon as defined in Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 5; an offense involving a nuisance as defined in Title 76,
Chapter 10, Part 8; gambling permitted to be played, conducted or dealt as prohibited in Title 76, Chapter 10, Part
11, Gambling; or prostitution or promotion of prostitution carried on by one or more persons Persons as provided
in Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 13, Prostitution.
      "Serious safety violation" means any hazard constituting an imminent threat to the life safety of an occupant
or neighbor, and for which condemnation, closure to occupancy or termination of utilities is provided in electrical,
building, plumbing or similar codes.
      "Sexual orientation" shall mean a Person’s actual or perceived orientation as heterosexual, homosexual, or
bisexual.
      “Short-Term Rental (STR)" means a residential unit or any portion of a residential unit that the Owner of
record or the lessee of the residential unit offers for occupancy for fewer than 30 consecutive days and is: an
Owner-Occupied Duplex; an Owner-Occupied Rental Property; or in a property owned by a Primary Resident who
resides in South Salt Lake.
      "Single family rental" means a building arranged or designed to be occupied by one family and held for lease
to the general public, the structure Structure only having one unit.
      "Structure" means anything constructed or erected which requires location on or below the ground or
attached to something having location on or below the ground.
      "Tenant" means every person Person who resides in a rental dwelling Rental Dwelling, whether named in the
lease or not.



                                                      Page 7 of 54
      "Unlawful practice" shall mean a discriminatory act or practice relating to housing that is prohibited under
this chapter.
      "Wastewater" means discharges from all plumbing facilities, such as rest rooms, kitchen and laundry fixtures
either separately or in combination.

4.04.030 Existing law continued.
The provisions of this title shall not invalidate any other title, chapter or ordinance of this code, but shall be read in
conjunction with those titles, chapters and ordinances and shall be used as an additional remedy for enforcement
of violations thereof.

4.04.040 Criminal or civil prosecution right.
The city City shall have sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil nuisance action under state law, a criminal
case or to pursue an administrative enforcement action for the violation of any of its ordinances or applicable code
requirements. The enactment of this title shall not be construed to limit the city's City’s right to prosecute any
violation as a civil nuisance violation or a criminal offense under state or municipal law.

4.04.050 Severability.
If any chapter, section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion or provision of this title is, for any reason,
held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The city council City Council hereby declares that it
would have adopted this title and each chapter, section, subsection, clause, phrase, portion or provision thereof,
irrespective of the fact that any more or more sections, subsections, clauses, phrases, portions or provisions be
declared invalid or unconstitutional. This section shall apply to all amendments made to this title.

4.04.060 Civil liability.
By establishing performance standards or by establishing obligations to act, it is the intent of the city council City
Council that South Salt Lake City employees and officers are exercising discretionary authority in pursuit of an
essential governmental function and that any such standards or obligations shall not be construed as creating a
ministerial duty for purposes of tort liability.



                                 Chapter 4.05 SHORT-TERM RENTALS
4.05.010 – Purpose.
The purpose of this Chapter is to establish regulations and design standards for residential Short-Term Rentals
(STRs) located in single family and multi-family neighborhoods. These standards seek to allow for STRs while also
protecting the safety and general welfare of South Salt Lake residents and preserving the residential character of
South Salt Lake single family and multi-family neighborhoods. In allowing STRs, it provides existing property
homeowners economic relief who might otherwise be forced to leave a neighborhood, thus promoting, and
preserving affordable housing in South Salt Lake. This chapter also intends to stabilize neighborhoods by
promoting home ownership and preserving long-term rental housing in the market.

4.05.020 – License Requirements
It is unlawful for any Person to Engage in the Business of Short-Term Rental unless that Person has first obtained a
business license from the business license office of the City of South Salt Lake.




                                                       Page 8 of 54
4.05.030 – R1 and MPMU Restrictions
STRs are prohibited in the R1 District, unless they are Owner-Occupied or owned and operated by a Person whose
Primary Residence is within 30 miles of the STR. STRs in the R1 and MPMU Districts shall be contained within or
attached (share a wall) to the Primary Dwelling. STRs are prohibited in any Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU).

4.05.040 – Application for Business License
An application for an STR business license shall be made to the Business License Official and shall contain such
information as indicated on forms provided by the City including the following:
 A. The name, mailing address, and telephone number of each of the following:
          a.   The name of property Owner;
          b.   The applicant;
          c.   The property Manager;
 B.   Property Description and location by street address. A detailed written description and/or drawing of the
      property that identifies the use of each room of the Dwelling and defines the portions of the Dwelling to be
      used for an STR shall be provided;
 C.   A site plan/drawing of the proposed STR showing the location of required off-street parking spaces;
 D. The number of rooms available for rent;
 E.   The number of Persons the STR will accommodate;
 F.   A FEIN number or tax account number;
 G. The name and telephone number of the property Owner or Owner’s agent who is available by telephone
    twenty-four hours per day, and who can respond within 30 minutes to the site, 24 hours a day, 7 days a
    week;
 H. Such other information as the Business License Official determines may be needed to assist in issuing the
    permit or license;
 I.   A signed declaration on a form provided by the City identifying the requirement of an STR business license
      that the applicant is currently in compliance with all legal requirements regarding STRs, has paid all
      applicable taxes, fees and other charges regarding STRs, and agrees to continually comply with all
      requirements regarding STRs;
 J.   For STRs in the R1 and MPMU Districts, a signed affidavit sworn before a notary public shall be provided by
      the Owner stating that the proposed property is the Owner’s Primary Residence, and the Owner will remain
      as the primary occupant of the home for at least 183 days per calendar year. The Owner shall also provide
      proof of Primary Residency in the form of a document from at least two of the following categories that
      show the applicant’s name and the address of the property for which an STR business license is being
      applied for:
          a.   Utility bill, dated within the last sixty (60) days;
          b.   Correspondence from any government agency that shows the home address, dated within the last
               sixty (60) days;
          c.   A voter registration card dated within the last calendar year;
          d.   A social security statement, dated within the last sixty (60) days;
          e.   A bank statement dated within the last sixty (60) days;
          f.   Automobile registration documentation dated within the last calendar year;
          g.   Income tax forms dated from the most recent tax filing period;



                                                       Page 9 of 54
          h.   Insurance documentation or insurance bill dated within the last calendar year that shows home
               address;
          i.   Current active business license or permit issued by South Salt Lake, a state, or federal agency that
               shows home address;
          j.   College or school correspondence that shows home address, dated within the last sixty (60) days;
          k.   W-2 from the most recent tax filing period;
          l.   Official payroll documentation that includes the home address issued by an employer within the
               last sixty (60) days, such as a pay stub, a form submitted for tax withholding purposes, or a payroll
               receipt;
          m. At renewal, provide proof of required property and sales tax remittance.
4.05.050 – Business License Denial, Suspension or Revocation
 A. An STR business license that has been granted may be suspended or revoked for any violation of the
    provisions of this chapter, or for any reason stated in any applicable laws.
 B.   Any appeal of a decision to deny, suspend, or revoke an STR business license shall be heard in accordance
      with those procedures established by South Salt Lake Code §5.02.

4.05.060 – Inspections for Compliance and Business License Renewals
 A. Prior to issuance of any STR business license, the building department and the Fire Marshal or designee shall
    conduct an inspection to ensure compliance with this chapter and all other applicable laws.
 B.   After an STR business license has been granted, or as part of the annual license renewal, the Business
      License Official, Building Official, or Fire Marshall may require inspections of an STR to ensure compliance
      with this chapter and all other applicable laws. Failure to respond or comply with inspection requirements
      shall be grounds for denial, suspension or revocation of the STR business license.
 C.   As part of an annual renewal of a business license for an STR, the applicant shall resubmit the required
      documents as set forth in South Salt Lake Code §5.02
 D. As part of an annual renewal of a business license for an STR, the applicant shall resubmit the affidavit
    acknowledging ownership requirements as applicable in the R1 and MPMU land use districts.
 E.   As part of the initial application requirements and annual renewal of a business license for an STR, the
      applicant shall submit a signed affidavit sworn before a notary public on a form to be provided by the City
      and signed by the applicant that acknowledges they have completed and will submit their own Home Fire
      Inspection Report.
 F.   Upon receiving a complaint, and based on a physical inspection of the property, if the occupancy
      requirements are exceeded, a red tag may be issued.

4.05.070 – Occupancy Requirements
 A. The maximum Renter occupancy of an STR shall be no more than;
          a.   Two (2) adults per bedroom, or
          b.   Eight (8) related adults, or
          c.   Four (4) unrelated adults, or
          d.   Ten (10) total Persons;
          e.   This maximum occupancy shall not include the Owner or Persons related to the Owner.
          f.   The business license shall state maximum occupancy allowed.




                                                    Page 10 of 54
 B.   The property shall not be rented to more than one Renter at any given time, and the Owner shall not divide
      and Rent out portions of the Dwelling to multiple Renters at the same time.
4.05.080 – Maintenance; Structure and Grounds; Other Requirements and Limitations
 A. An STR shall be maintained to the following minimum standards:
             1.   Periodic, exterior maintenance service of the house, property, grounds and adjacent areas
                  including driveways and sidewalks shall be provided by the Owner, including removal of trash,
                  leaves and snow, and other materials on at least a weekly basis as provided in South Salt Lake
                  Code sections: 12.08.090; 12.08.110;12.52.050; and 17.06.300.
             2.   The Owner shall ensure that Renters adhere to county noise regulations enforced by local law
                  enforcement agencies.
             3.   STRs may not be used for any of the following:
                      a.   Commercial purposes not otherwise permitted in the zone, including hosting parties;
                      b.   Distribution of retail products or personal services to invitees for marketing or similar
                           purposes; or
                      c.   The outdoor display of goods and merchandise for sale.
             4.   Required off-street parking areas and access to parking areas shall be maintained and available
                  for use at all times. Parking for this use shall be incremental to the requirements for the Primary
                  Dwelling and include a minimum of one off-street parking spaces for each five (5) occupants
                  allowed.
             5.   Any STR in South Salt Lake City shall include the following statement in any online advertisement
                  for the STR unit: "This short-term rental is legally permitted by South Salt Lake City and short-
                  term rental business license #[South Salt Lake City Business License number]. Any short-term
                  rental in South Salt Lake City operating without a business license number included within its
                  online advertisement is operating illegally."
 B.   The access to the STR unit and the layout of the STR shall be designed so that noise, light, and occupants
      from the STR unit are not likely to be a substantial intrusion on adjacent properties.
 C.   Responsible Party.
             1.   The resident Owner is personally liable for failure to properly manage the STR.
             2.   The resident Owner or Owner's agent must be available by telephone, or otherwise, twenty-four
                  hours per day and must be able to respond to inquiries within thirty minutes of receipt of an
                  inquiry.
 D. The licensee must have a sales tax collection and sales tax accounting number for the rental operation and
    the sales tax number must be included on the STR Business License application. All applicable taxes, charges
    and fees, including the transient room tax, must be paid in full during the period of licensure.
 E.   Only one STR business license shall be issued per property.

4.05.090 – Noticing and Posting Requirements
 A. One nameplate sign shall be permanently attached on the exterior of the building or in a conspicuous
    location on the site at time of business license inspection. The nameplate sign shall provide:
             1.   The name and telephone number of the resident Owner or Owner's agent who can be contacted
                  twenty-four hours a day,
             2.   The occupant load of the building as allowed by South Salt Lake,
             3.   Be made of durable, weather resistant material,



                                                     Page 11 of 54
               4.   Not exceed eight inches by eleven inches in dimension, and
               5.   Contain no advertising.
               6.   Include the business license number and maximum occupancy
 B.    Post the City issued STR business license on the interior of the building in a conspicuous location near the
       main entrance of the STR at time of business license inspection with the following information:
               1.   Parking requirements and location of off-site parking spaces
               2.   County noise regulations
               3.   Garbage pick-up dates
               4.   South Salt Lake business license number
               5.   Maximum allowed occupancy
               6.   Name and contact information of the registered agent
               7.   Contact information for the South Salt Lake City Police and Fire Departments.

4.05.100 – License Fees
At the time the business license application is filed, the applicant shall pay to the South Salt Lake business license
office a fee, in an amount to be established in the consolidated fee schedule in South Salt Lake Code §3.11.030, or
its successor provision.

4.05.110 – Hosting Platform Responsibilities.

      A. Subject to applicable laws, hosting platforms must disclose to the City on a semiannual basis each home-
         sharing and vacation rental listing located in the City, the names of the persons responsible for each such
         listing, the address of each such listing, the length of stay for each such listing, and the price paid for each
         stay.
      B.   Hosting platforms may not complete any booking transaction for any residential property or unit unless
           that property or unit is licensed under the requirements provided in this Chapter at the time the hosting
           platform receives a fee for the booking transaction.
      C.   A hosting platform operating exclusively on the internet that operates in compliance with Subsections A
           and B of this Section shall be presumed to be in compliance with this Chapter, except that the hosting
           platform remains responsible for compliance with the administrative subpoena provisions of this Chapter.
      D. The provisions of this Section shall be interpreted in accordance with otherwise applicable State and
         Federal law(s) and will not apply if determined by the City to be in violation of, or preempted by, any such
         law(s).

4.05.120 – Violations
For purposes of enforcement of violations of this chapter, each day that any violation occurs, or that applicable
taxes and fees are unpaid, is deemed to constitute a separate violation.

4.05.130 – Non-Conforming Use and Non-Complying STRs
Refer to South Salt Lake Code §17.09 for any Non-Conforming Use or Non-Complying STRs.

4.05.140 – Short-Term Rental License Caps
The City shall limit its issuance of STR Business Licenses as indicated below:
      A. The total number of STR licenses issued in the City shall not exceed more than 200.
      B.   The total number of STR licenses issued per City block shall not exceed more than two (2).



                                                       Page 12 of 54
4.05.150 – Exceptions
    A. STRs Licensed by the City prior to February 14, 2025, do not need comply with the standards found in
       §4.05.030, 4.05.070, 4.05.080, and 4.05.090.
    B.     In the event of a sale or transfer of ownership of the property, all standards shall be met.



                                    Chapter 4.08 RENTAL DWELLINGS

4.08.010 License—Required.
    A. It is unlawful for any person Person, firm, corporation, partnership, or association, as owner Owner,
       lessee, or agent thereof to keep, conduct, operate or maintain any rental dwelling Rental Dwelling within
       the limits of the city City of South Salt Lake, or cause or permit the same to be done, unless such person
       Person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership holds a current, unrevoked operating regulatory
       business license under this chapter.
    B.     An owner Owner of multiple- rental dwellings Rental Dwellings or multiple buildings containing rental
           dwellings Rental Dwellings is not required to obtain more than one regulatory business license for the
           operation and maintenance of those rental dwellings Rental Dwellings.
    C.     Such licenses are not transferable between parties or structures Structures, and parties holding such
           licenses shall give written notice within forty-eight (48) hours to the business license official Business
           License Official after having transferred or otherwise disposed of the legal or equitable control of any
           premises licensed under these provisions. Such notice of transferred interest shall be deemed a request
           to cancel the existing business license, and shall include the name, address, and control of the premises as
           required under Section 4.08.030 of this chapter. The new owners Owners must obtain a business license
           as required in this section. Prior to renting any Residential Dwelling Unit as a Rental Dwelling, Owners
           shall be responsible for supplementing the Business License Official’s records.

4.08.020 License—Application.
       An application for a rental dwelling Rental Dwelling business license shall be made to the business license
official Business License Official and shall contain such information as indicated on forms provided by the city City
including the following:
      A.     The location and address of such rental dwelling Rental Dwelling;
      B.     The number of units located in such rental dwelling Rental Dwelling;
      C.     The name, address, and telephone number of each of the following:
             1.    The applicant;
             2.    The owner Owner of the fee title interest;
             3.    The owners of any equitable interest;
             4.    The local operating agent;
             5.    The resident manager Manager; and
             6.    The designation of a legal representative and agent for such service of each corporate and out-of-
                   state resident owner Owner, who must reside in the state of Utah;
      D.     The signatures of any and all owners of the premises, and the operator, if different, agreeing to comply
             with applicable ordinances and to authorize inspections as provided for in this chapter.



                                                       Page 13 of 54
4.08.030 License—Fee.
      The license fee for a rental dwelling Rental Dwelling business license is to be set by resolution of the city
council City Council and included in the city City fee schedule. The fee shall take into account the number of rental
units operated or maintained by the applicant.

4.08.040 License—Issuance restrictions.
A.    No rental dwelling Rental Dwelling business license shall be issued or renewed for an out-of-state applicant
      unless such applicant designates in writing a power of attorney in the name of an agent located in the state
      of Utah for receipt of service for notice of violation of the provisions of this chapter or any other applicable
      ordinance, and for service of process pursuant to this chapter, acknowledged by such agent.
B.    No business license shall be issued or renewed for a rental dwelling Rental Dwelling unless the applicant,
      owner Owner and operator agree as a condition precedent, by signing the license application, to such
      inspections that the city City may require in order to determine whether the rental dwelling Rental Dwelling
      unit is in compliance with the applicable requirements. The failure of the applicant and/or operator to
      consent to such inspection shall be grounds for the denial, suspension and/or revocation of a business
      license, in addition to other civil or criminal penalties.
C.    No business license is to be issued until the city City has inspected the premises and confirmed that
      compliance with applicable requirements has been obtained.
D.    No business license is to be issued or renewed until the finance department has determined that the
      applicant, owner Owner or operator is not delinquent in paying any sum owed to the city City for any other
      fee or fine.

4.08.050 City inspection.
A.    The original application for a rental dwelling Rental Dwelling business license shall be referred to the city City
      for inspection as to whether the interior and exterior premises are in compliance with currently adopted city
      City ordinances and codes and state law. The assigned official shall report to the business license official
      Business License Official within fourteen (14) days as to the compliance with such ordinances and codes.
B.    Premises found to be out of compliance may be re-inspected upon the applicant's request made within thirty
      (30) days of receipt of the inspection report. If a third inspection will be required, the request must be
      accompanied by the payment of an inspection fee. The applicant shall not be required to pay a second
      business license application fee if the applicant makes a timely request for re-inspection.
C.    The failure or refusal to allow a city City inspector onto the premises for an inspection shall result in a denial
      of the business license application.

4.08.060 Issuance of license.
      The business license official Business License Official, after receiving recommendations from the community
development department Community Development Department, shall act upon the application in respect to
granting or denying the same, as shall be deemed appropriate.

4.08.070 Appeal.
      The applicant or license holder may appeal the business license official Business License Official's decision as
provided in Section 2.22.040 of this code.




                                                      Page 14 of 54
                           Chapter 4.12 GOOD LANDLORD PROGRAM

4.12.010 Purpose.
      The cost to provide municipal services to rental dwellings Rental Dwellings is greater than the cost to provide
services to owner-occupied Owner-Occupied dwellings Dwellings. Due to this added cost, disproportionate rental
fees are assessed to pay the incremental cost of the disproportionate services. Pursuant to state law, however,
landlord Landlord who actively participate in the good landlord Landlord program are permitted to pay a reduced
fee, so long as they continue to comply with the provisions of this chapter.

4.12.020 Good landlord program.
A.   Every landlord Landlord who is "certified" by the city City pursuant to its "good landlord program" shall be
     entitled to a reduction in its per unit license fee in the amount set forth in the consolidated fee schedule.
B.   An exempt Exempt residential rental business is not required to pay a disproportionate impact fee. License
     fees for exempt Exempt residential rental businesses in the good landlord program are limited to the base
     licensing fee. Exempt businesses may still participate in the good landlord program and receive a discount in
     their base licensing fee.

4.12.030 Good landlord certification.
     To receive a "good landlord" certification from the city City, a landlord Landlord shall do the following:
     A.    Provide proof that the person Person or persons Persons responsible for the management of the rental
           housing has/have: (1) made arrangements with an entity authorized to complete background
           Background checks; (2) procured a lease form that allows prompt eviction for criminal acts or
           maintaining a nuisance; (3) completed good landlord training provided or approved by the city City
           prior to certification and once every three years thereafter. A property is exempt from the training
           requirement if the manager Manager or landlord Landlord maintains a designation as a certified
           property manager Manager with the Utah Division of Real Estate or is otherwise exempt pursuant to
           state law.
     B.    Within thirty (30) days of a change in the person Person or persons Persons responsible for the
           management of rental housing, provide proof to the city City that the new manager(s) Manager(s)
           has/have completed good landlord training provided or approved by the city City.
     C.    Enter into a good landlord agreement on a form prepared by the city City to institute the following
           practices:
           1.    Require a written lease for every rental unit.
           2.    Require that all adult occupants of the unit be listed on the lease.
           3.    Perform background Background checks on every adult who will be listed on the lease so that the
                 landlord Landlord is aware of past criminal convictions of the prospective tenant Tenant.
           4.    Utilize a lease form that allows eviction for criminal acts or maintaining a nuisance by a tenant
                 Tenant, occupant or guest.
           5.    Serve notice of eviction upon a tenant Tenant within five days of receiving notice from the city
                 City of evidence which demonstrates by a preponderance preponderance of the evidence that a
                 tenant Tenant or tenant’s Tenant’s guest has been involved in a criminal act or maintained a
                 nuisance on the premises.




                                                    Page 15 of 54
           6.    Provide the city City with a telephone number, email and postal address for the landlord Landlord
                 or landlord’s Landlord’s representative to which information regarding inappropriate behavior by
                 tenants Tenants, occupants or their guests and other notices which may be sent to the landlord
                 Landlord or landlord’s Landlord’s representative. Each landlord Landlord shall be responsible to
                 update and keep current this contact information, and shall execute a statement agreeing that
                 notice sent to the contact information kept on file is sufficient to meet the requirements of
                 notice under this chapter.
           7.    Implement "crime prevention through environmental design" practices on the premises.
     D.    Maintain the rental dwelling Rental Dwelling in a fit and habitable condition, as required by the state fit
           premises act, and relevant building, fire and land use codes.

4.12.040 Required conditions on property.
A.   Rental properties are required to conform with all applicable building, fire and land use codes, Title 57,
     Chapter 22 of the Utah Code (Utah Fit Premises Act), and Chapter 4.16 of this title (Fit Premises Ordinance).
B.   Upon receiving notice from the city City or any other government agency of a violation of fire, building or fit
     premises codes, a landlord Landlord must remedy the conditions listed in subsection (A) within one month,
     unless another amount of time is identified by state or local law for the particular violation. A participant
     who fails to timely bring the rental property into compliance shall have the participant's certification
     suspended, except as provided in Section 4.12.080.
C.   The city City may extend these deadlines if a landlord Landlord demonstrates that extensive renovation is
     needed to comply with these provisions, that the costs of renovation are extremely burdensome, and that
     progress is being made toward timely compliance.

4.12.050 Audits.
A.   The department may request an audit of the landlord’s Landlord’s written leases and background
     Background checks under the following circumstances:
     1.    During a regularly scheduled audit, which may occur once every three years;
     2.    When alleged criminal activity occurs at a specific rental property; or
     3.    When the city City receives evidence that such documents are not being maintained in accordance with
           city City ordinances.
B.   For landlords Landlords with more than twenty (20) rental units, regular audits are initially limited to a
     selection of twenty-five (25) percent of the units, as selected by the city City prior to inspection. Further
     audits may be requested by the city City if substantial deficiencies are located within those which were
     provided.
C.   Except as provided in subsection (B) of this section, any landlord Landlord in the program must, within five
     business days of a request by the city City, produce evidence of written leases and background Background
     checks. The landlord Landlord may provide copies of the evidence via facsimile or electronic mail, deliver a
     physical copy of the evidence for the city’s City’s records, or permit a city City official to inspect the evidence
     at any business premises located within the city City.
D.   Failure or refusal to respond to the city City official's request within five business days shall result in a
     suspension of the landlord’s Landlord’s good landlord certificate. For purposes of this section, three
     additional business days are permitted if notification of the audit is sent by mail.




                                                      Page 16 of 54
4.12.060 Renewal of certification.
A.   The good landlord certificate expires every three years, at which time a landlord Landlord who wishes to
     remain on the program must seek a renewal of the certificate if the landlord Landlord wishes to seek the
     benefits of the good landlord program.
B.   Prior to renewal, the landlord Landlord or manager Manager must attend:
     1.    A renewal good landlord course which shall be approved by the city City, or live training provided by
           another city City in Utah which participates in the good landlord program; and
     2.    At least one local training session provided free of charge by the city City.
C.   Landlords of exempt Exempt residential rental businesses who wish to participate in the program are exempt
     from the instruction provisions of subsection (B) of this section, unless the department demonstrates that
     the landlord Landlord has violated the provisions of this chapter during the previous three-year period, or
     unless the landlord Landlord also owns or maintains other residential rental properties within the city City.
D.   The good landlord certificate will not be renewed unless the property is kept in compliance with Section
     4.12.040.
E.   A landlord Landlord whose certification is currently suspended or revoked is not eligible for renewal.

4.12.070 Suspension of certification.
A.   If a landlord Landlord fails to present evidence of compliance pursuant to Section 4.12.040, or if the landlord
     Landlord fails to timely correct a minor violation of the good landlord agreement, the certification for that
     landlord Landlord shall be suspended. Minor violations include a failure to run a background Background
     check on tenants Tenants, failure to update contact information, failure to maintain written lease
     agreements, fit premises or health and safety violations which do not result in injury, violations of local
     ordinances, or failure to timely train new management. Suspension will also be entered if the landlord
     Landlord or manager Manager fails to attend the renewal courses required by Section 4.12.060.
B.   If a landlord’s Landlord’s certification is suspended, the certificate shall not be reinstated until (1) the
     landlord Landlord has corrected the violation for which suspension was entered, and (2) the landlord
     Landlord has paid an administrative fee in an amount set forth in the consolidated fee schedule.
C.   A second violation for which suspension is ordinarily imposed, if committed within one year from the initial
     suspension, shall result in revocation of the landlord’s Landlord’s certificate.
D.   The city City may not penalize a landlord Landlord for failing to take action against a renter Renter because
     that renter Renter makes reasonable requests for assistance from a public safety agency.

4.12.080 Revocation of certification.
A.   When the business license official Business License Official receives evidence that the landlord Landlord has
     committed a major violation of the good landlord program, or has violated state or federal law in connection
     with the rental property the official shall revoke the landlord’s Landlord’s certification. Major violations
     include failure to begin eviction proceedings against tenants Tenants who commit criminal acts or maintain a
     nuisance, or evidence that a tenant Tenant or guest suffered bodily injury due to inadequate conditions
     included in Section 4.16.060. The official shall send notification, stating the reason for the revocation by
     certified mail to the landlord Landlord together with instructions on how to appeal the official's decision.
B.   The landlord Landlord whose certificate has been revoked is not entitled to certify again until after a one-
     year probation period.




                                                     Page 17 of 54
C.    A landlord Landlord seeking reinstatement must re-apply for the certificate, and provide evidence of
      attendance of an approved good landlord course.
D.    Further violations of state, local or federal law during the one-year probation period shall restart the one-
      year probation period, which extension may be appealed.

4.12.090 Appeal.
     A landlord Landlord may appeal an adverse decision related to the good landlord program to the city’s City’s
administrative law judge pursuant to procedures set forth in Title 2, Chapter 22 of this code.

4.12.100 Applicability of amendments to current participants.
       Unless otherwise stated, amendments to this chapter are effective immediately, but their application to
landlord’s Landlord’s who are currently participating in the program is deferred until the expiration or renewal of
that landlord’s Landlord’s certification. landlords Landlords may be required to execute a new contract with terms
which conform to the amendments, if they wish to continue participating in the program.



                                       Chapter 4.16 FIT PREMISES

4.16.010 Title.
     The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be referred to as city City of South Salt Lake fit premises
ordinance.

4.16.020 Purpose.
A.    The city council City Council of South Salt Lake finds that a large number of dwelling Dwelling units within the
      city City of South Salt Lake are occupied on a rental tenancy basis, and that while a large majority of both
      owners and tenants Tenants maintain premises in a habitable condition, a significant number of both owners
      and tenants Tenants fail to abide these standards, that some make unreasonable requests to enter the
      premises, some tenants Tenants breach an obligation to maintain premises in reasonable condition and
      cause damages in excess of reasonable wear and tear, that rental Rental agreements are in many cases
      breached by both owners and tenants Tenants, and that some tenants Tenants breach a duty to maintain
      peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other tenants Tenants. The council further finds that pursuant to
      decisions of the Utah Supreme Court that the city City has the necessary police and other regulatory powers
      to permit enactment of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
B.    The city council City Council intends the requirements of this chapter to clarify, not to supersede or conflict
      with, the requirements of the Utah Fit Premises Act, § 57-22-1 et seq. U.C.A., and finds that such clarification
      is necessary in order to ensure compliance with the standards for habitability in this community.

4.16.030 Exclusions from application of chapter.
      The following housing is not governed by this chapter:
      A.    Residence at a detention, medical, geriatric, educational, counseling, or religious institution;
      B.    Occupancy under a contract of sale of a dwelling Dwelling unit if the occupant is the purchaser;
      C.    Occupancy by a member of a fraternal or social organization in a building operated for the benefit of
            the organization;



                                                     Page 18 of 54
     D.    Transient occupancy in a hotel, or motel (or lodgings subject to Utah Code § 59-12-301); except that
           single room occupancy units (SRO) shall be governed by this chapter. SRO means an existing housing
           unit with one combined sleeping and living room of at least seventy (70) square feet, but of not more
           than two hundred twenty (220) square feet, where the usual tenancy or occupancy of the same unit by
           the same person Person or persons Persons is for a period of longer than one week. Such units may
           include a kitchen and a private bath; and
     E.    Occupancy by an owner Owner of a condominium unit.

4.16.040 Identification of owner Owner and agents.
A.   A property owner, or any person Person authorized to enter into an oral or written rental Rental agreement
     on the property owner's behalf, shall disclose to the tenant Tenant in writing on or before the
     commencement of the tenancy the name, address and telephone number of:
     1.    The property owner Owner or person Person authorized to manage the premises; and
     2.    A local person Person authorized to act for and on behalf of the property owner Owner for the purpose
           of receiving demands, and performing the property owner's obligations under this chapter and the
           rental Rental agreement.
B.   A person Person, other than the tenant, who enters into a rental Rental agreement and fails to comply with
     the requirements of this section becomes an agent of the property owner Owner for the purposes of:
     1.    Receipt of notices under this chapter; and
     2.    Performing the obligations of the property owner Owner under this chapter and under the rental
           Rental agreement.
C.   A tenant Tenant must be notified in writing of changes in the information required to be furnished by this
     section within thirty (30) days of the effective date of the change.
D.   Every rental property with more than one unit rented without a written agreement shall have a notice
     posted in a conspicuous place with the name, address and telephone number of the property owner Owner
     or manager Manager and local agent as required by subsection (A) of this section.
E.   This section is necessary in order to ensure the tenant's ability to serve notice of deficiencies to a property
     owner, as specified in § 57-22-6(2)(b) of the Utah Code.

4.16.050 Notice of utility termination or deficiencies.
      Before entering into a lease or rental Rental agreement, the property owner Owner shall disclose in writing
to the tenant Tenant the following:
     A.    Any notice by a utility provider to terminate water, gas, electrical or other utility services to the
           dwelling Dwelling unit or to common areas of the building, and the proposed date of termination;
     B.    Any current uncorrected building or health code violation included in a deficiency list or notice from
           the city City, Salt Lake Valley health department, or any other government entity.

4.16.060 Property owner—Affirmative duties.
      A property owner Owner has an affirmative duty to do the following unless the duty has been lawfully
allocated to the tenant Tenant pursuant to existing state law:
     A.    Comply with the requirements of applicable building, housing, fire and health codes and city City
           ordinances;
     B.    Maintain the structural integrity of the building;


                                                    Page 19 of 54
C.   Maintain floors in compliance with safe load-bearing requirements;
D.   Provide exits, emergency egress, and light and ventilation in compliance with applicable codes,
     including egress windows, as defined in the current state building or fire code, for each bedroom in
     each rental dwelling Rental Dwelling, unless it is an excepted, currently existing window qualifying for
     exemption under Section 4.16.150;
E.   Maintain stairways, porches, walkways and fire escapes in sound condition, including hand and guard
     rails required by applicable codes;
F.   Provide operating smoke detectors (either battery operated or directly wired) and fire extinguisher as
     required by applicable code;
G.   Provide operable sinks, toilets, tubs and/or showers;
H.   Provide heating facilities as required by code;
I.   Provide kitchen facilities as required;
J.   Provide running, potable water;
K.   Provide adequate hall and stairway lighting;
L.   Maintain floors, walls and ceilings in a structurally sound condition;
M.   Supply window screens where required by code;
N.   Maintain foundation, masonry, chimneys, water heater and furnace in good working condition;
O.   Prevent the accumulation of stagnant water in the interior of any premises;
P.   Maintain in good and safe working order and condition all electrical, plumbing, sanitary, heating,
     ventilating, air conditioning, and other facilities and appliances supplied by the property owner Owner
     as required by applicable codes;
Q.   Provide and maintain appropriate garbage receptacles and arrange for timely garbage removal as
     required by code or ordinance;
R.   Dispose of oil, electric batteries, and all other household hazardous waste or materials as required by
     federal, state, and local laws;
S.   Provide electricity and hot water at all times, and heat during at least the months of October through
     April and as weather conditions might otherwise reasonably warrant, except where the dwelling
     Dwelling unit is so constructed that electricity, heat or hot water is within the exclusive control of the
     tenant Tenant and supplied by a direct public utility connection;
T.   Initiate pest control measures if reasonable proof of pest infestation has been established, provided
     that a property owner Owner may not apply pesticide contrary to label directions;
U.   Provide and maintain exterior doors including weather proofing;
V.   Provide adequate locks to exterior doors and furnish keys to tenants Tenants, and occupancy
     separation doors, as required by current building and fire codes;
W.   Maintain the dwelling Dwelling unit in a reasonably insulated and weather tight condition as required
     by the Uniform Building, Housing and Utah State Energy Conservation Codes;
X.   Ensure that repairs, decorations, alterations, or improvements, or showing the dwelling Dwelling unit
     for rental or sale shall not unreasonably interfere with the tenants’ Tenants’ right to quiet enjoyment
     of the premises;
Y.   Provide a mailbox; and




                                               Page 20 of 54
    Z.    Provide separate meters for each tenant Tenant for gas and electricity or include charges for utility
          services in the rent;
    AA. Provide ground fault circuit interrupter protected outlets in locations specified in applicable electric
        codes; and
    BB.   Provide a separate street address for each unit, as required by current fire codes.
    CC.   This section clarifies the property owner's duties identified in § 57-22-3 of the Utah Code, based on this
          community's standards for habitability.

4.16.070 Property owner—Prohibited activities.
    A property owner Owner may not:
    A.    Rent the premises unless the premises are safe, sanitary, and fit for human occupancy;
    B.    Interrupt or disconnect utility services; or
    C.    Enter a rental unit without first complying with § 57-22-4(2) of the Utah Code and Section 4.16.090 of
          this code.

4.16.080 Tenant to maintain dwelling Dwelling unit.
    A tenant Tenant has the affirmative duty to:
    A.    Comply with all appropriate requirements of the rental Rental agreement and applicable provisions of
          building, housing and health codes;
    B.    Maintain the premises occupied in a clean and safe condition and not unreasonably burden any
          common area;
    C.    Dispose of all garbage and other waste in a clean and safe manner and shall not leave garbage or litter
          in hallways, porches, patios and other common areas;
    D.    Maintain all plumbing fixtures in as sanitary a condition as the fixtures permit and shall not obstruct
          sinks, toilets, tubs, showers and other plumbing drains;
    E.    Use all electrical, plumbing, sanitary, heating, and other facilities and appliances in a reasonable
          manner;
    F.    Not destroy, deface, damage, impair or remove any part of the premises or knowingly permit any
          person Person to do so;
    G.    Promptly inform the property owner Owner of any defective conditions or problems at the premises;
    H.    Not interfere with the peaceful enjoyment of the residential rental unit of another renter Renter;
    I.    Upon vacating the premises, restore the premises to their initial condition except for reasonable wear
          and tear or conditions caused by the property owner;
    J.    Be current on all payments required by the rental Rental agreement;
    K.    Not increase the number of occupants above that specified in the rental Rental agreement without
          written permission of the owners;
    L.    Not modify or paint the premises without the express permission of the property owner/agent;
    M.    Dispose of oil, car batteries, and other hazardous waste materials away from the rental premises, and
          in a manner prescribed by federal, state and local laws; and




                                                    Page 21 of 54
     N.    Not require the owner Owner to correct or remedy any condition caused by the renter Renter, the
           renter’s Renter’s family or the renter’s Renter’s guests or invitees by inappropriate use of the property
           during the rental term or any extension of it.
     O.    This section clarifies the duties described in § 57-22-5 of the Utah Code, based on standards for
           habitability and tenant Tenant obligations in this community.

4.16.090 Access.
A.   A tenant Tenant shall not unreasonably withhold consent to the property owner Owner to enter into the
     dwelling Dwelling unit in order to make necessary or agreed repairs, decorations, alterations, or
     improvements; or to exhibit the dwelling Dwelling unit to prospective purchasers, tenants Tenants or work
     people.
B.   A property owner Owner may enter the dwelling Dwelling unit without consent of the tenant Tenant in case
     of emergency.
C.   Except in case of emergency the property owner Owner shall give the tenant Tenant at least twenty-four (24)
     hours notice of plans to enter and may enter only between eight a.m. and ten p.m., unless the tenant Tenant
     expressly agrees to entry during other hours.
D.   A property owner Owner has no other right of access except:
     1.    Pursuant to court order;
     2.    To make repairs required by the tenant Tenant pursuant to Sections 8.40.150 and 8.40.160; or
     3.    Unless the tenant Tenant has abandoned the premises as defined in Section 78B-6-816, Utah Code
           Annotated, or any successor provision.

4.16.100 Property owner Owner and tenant Tenant remedies for abuse of access.
A.   If the tenant Tenant refuses to allow lawful access, the property owner Owner may obtain an administrative
     court order by initiating a proceeding with the administrative law judge pursuant to Chapter 2.22 of this
     code.
B.   If the property owner Owner makes an unlawful entry or makes repeated demands for entry which harass
     the tenant Tenant, the tenant Tenant may obtain an administrative court order by initiating a proceeding
     with the administrative law judge pursuant to Chapter 2.22 of this code.
C.   The party seeking the order bears the burden to establish the violation by a preponderance Preponderance
     of the evidence. The administrative hearing fee shall be paid in advance by the party seeking relief, but may
     be ordered by the administrative law judge to be paid by a party which has had an order levied against it.

4.16.110 Failure to deliver possession.
     If the property owner Owner fails to deliver possession of the dwelling Dwelling unit to the tenant Tenant as
promised in the rental Rental agreement, rent Rent abates until possession is delivered. Alternatively, the tenant
Tenant may terminate the rental Rental agreement by written notice to the property owner Owner and recover all
prepaid rent Rent and security deposits.

4.16.120 Tenant remedies.
     A tenant's remedies under this chapter are limited to those described in § 57-22-6 of the Utah Code.




                                                   Page 22 of 54
4.16.130 Retaliatory conduct prohibited.
A.   A property owner Owner may not terminate a rental Rental agreement or bring or threaten to bring an
     eviction action because the tenant Tenant has in good faith:
     1.    Complained of code violations at the premises to a governmental agency, elected representative or
           public official charged with responsibility for enforcement of a building, housing, health or similar code;
     2.    Complained of a building, housing, health or similar code violation or an illegal property owner Owner
           practice to a community organization or the news media;
     3.    Sought the assistance of a community organization or the news media to remedy a code violation or
           illegal property owner Owner practice;
     4.    Requested the property owner Owner to make repairs to the premises as required by this chapter, a
           building or health code, other regulation, or the residential rental Rental agreement; or
     5.    Testified in any court or administrative proceeding concerning the condition of the premises.
B.   A violation of this section is punishable by a fine in an amount to be established in the consolidated fee
     schedule.

4.16.140 City business license suspension or revocation.
      The city City business license of any property owner Owner in violation of the provisions of this chapter may
be suspended or revoked pursuant to Chapter 5.02 of the municipal code, with due regard to the severity of the
offense, the property owner's acceptance of responsibility for violations, and the length of time the violation
existed.

4.16.150 Installation of egress windows in bedrooms.
A.   Egress windows must be provided for any bedroom of a rental dwelling Rental Dwelling. If all of the windows
     in an existing bedroom are smaller than those required by the current state building or fire code, one or
     more windows must be replaced with an approved egress window unless completing the alteration would
     unreasonably or impractically compromise the structural integrity of the building or violate building, fire, or
     land use codes in existence at the time of certification.
B.   For purposes of subsection (A), a letter from a design Design professional certifying that adding or altering a
     bedroom window to comply with minimum egress standards will compromise the structural integrity of the
     building, or certifying that such a window cannot be installed in accordance with existing building, fire, or
     land use codes, shall be prima facie evidence that compliance with that subsection would be unreasonable or
     impractical.
C.   If the housing inspector disagrees with the conclusions of the design Design professional and determines that
     adding or altering a bedroom window would not unreasonably or impractically compromise the structural
     integrity of the building or violate building, fire or land use codes, the inspector must support this
     determination with a second opinion of an alternate design Design professional, provide a copy of the
     second opinion to the landlord Landlord, and notify the landlord Landlord of their right to appeal. If no
     appeal is made, or the administrative law judge determines that the egress window should be installed, then
     the landlord Landlord shall install the egress windows.
D.   A landlord Landlord is required to file a complete permit application to replace or install an egress window
     within thirty (30) days of the end of the appeal period, or of the date the administrative court makes its
     determination. The window must be installed within eight months from the date the completed permit
     application is turned into the community development department Community Development Department.




                                                    Page 23 of 54
4.16.160 Enforcement remedies not exclusive.
A.   In addition to other remedies provided by law, the city City may institute injunctions, mandamus, abatement
     or any other appropriate legal actions.
B.   The city’s City’s use of any particular remedy provided by law does not prevent the city City from pursuing
     any other remedy, civil or criminal, as to the same or a similar offense against the same person Person who
     violates this chapter.

                              Chapter 4.20 APARTMENT NUISANCES

4.20.010 Purpose and intent.
      It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to impose a legal duty upon apartment Apartment complex
owners to properly manage their properties to prevent them from deteriorating into havens for crime to the
degree that a nuisance is created, ruining the safe, peaceful and quiet enjoyment of property of innocent tenants
Tenants and of neighboring properties. The chapter creates a system to notify owners of the problems reasonably
attributable to their properties and imposes civil fines upon owners who neglect to take reasonable actions to
address problems.

4.20.020 Acts include causing, attempting, aiding and abetting.
     Whenever any act or omission is referred to or made unlawful in this chapter, it shall include causing,
attempting, permitting, aiding or abetting such act or omission.

4.20.030 Duty to properly manage.
      Every owner Owner of an apartment complex has a duty to provide adequate management to prevent the
creation of a nuisance to innocent tenants Tenants and to neighboring properties, resulting from multiple incidents
Incidents of criminal Criminal conduct by tenants Tenants and guests within a six-month period of time.

4.20.040 Nuisance declared.
A.   Pursuant to Title 10, Chapter 8, Section 60, of the Utah Code, the city City of South Salt Lake city council City
     Council declares that the quiet enjoyment of property is intolerably impaired and a public nuisance exists
     when, despite giving notice to the owner Owner and/or manager Manager of an apartment Apartment
     complex:
     1.    Seven or more incidents Incidents of serious Serious criminal conduct occur at an apartment
           Apartment complex within a six-month period of time. In any six-month period, each incident Incident
           of serious Serious criminal conduct in excess of seven shall constitute a separate nuisance and violation
           of this chapter;
     2.    Fifteen (15) or more incidents Incidents of minor Minor offense occur at an apartment Apartment
           complex within a six-month period of time. In any six-month period, each minor Minor offense incident
           Incident in excess of fifteen (15) shall constitute a separate nuisance and violation of this chapter; or
     3.    Five or more incidents Incidents of serious Serious criminal conduct in combination with ten or more
           incidents Incidents or minor Minor offenses occur at an apartment Apartment complex within a six-
           month period of time. In any six-month period, each subsequent incident Incident of serious Serious
           criminal conduct in excess of five and each subsequent incident Incident of a minor Minor offense in
           excess of ten shall constitute a separate nuisance and violation of this chapter.



                                                    Page 24 of 54
4.20.050 Notice.
A.    Timely notice of an incident Incident of serious Serious criminal conduct or minor Minor offense shall be
      given by providing the owner Owner and/or manager Manager of an apartment Apartment complex a copy
      of relevant portions of the police report or citation pertaining to the incident Incident no later than ten days
      after the city’s City’s report of the incident Incident is prepared.
B.    Sensitive information that the city City reasonably believes may create the risk of retribution against a
      complainant Complainant or police informant, reveal police methods or tactics, result in the invasion of
      privacy of an individual or interfere with an ongoing police investigation may be redacted from the
      information provided.
C.    The notice shall contain the information upon which the city City bases its conclusion that the incident
      Incident is linked to a tenant Tenant or guest of the apartment Apartment complex. An incident Incident
      occurring inside an apartment inside of an apartment Apartment complex is prima facie evidence that it is
      linked to a tenant Tenant or guest of the apartment Apartment complex.
D.    The notice will contain information, if available, to assist the owner Owner and/or manger to identify the
      rental unit or units to which the incident Incident is related.
E.    The notice shall contain a statement that:
      1.    Seven incidents Incidents of serious Serious criminal conduct or fifteen (15) minor Minor offenses at an
            apartment Apartment complex within a six-month period constitute a nuisance and will result in the
            imposition of civil penalties;
      2.    Each incident Incident of serious Serious criminal conduct in excess of seven and each minor Minor
            offense incident Incident in excess of fifteen (15) in a six-month period of time will be considered to be
            a separate nuisance and result in a separate civil penalty; and
      3.    After an apartment Apartment complex has been the locale for a combination of five serious Serious
            criminal incidents Incidents and ten minor Minor offenses within a six-month period of time, each
            subsequent incident Incident of either serious Serious criminal conduct or minor Minor offense in a six-
            month period shall be considered to be a separate nuisance and result in a separate civil penalty.
F.    Service of notice shall be complete upon being delivered personally or sent by certified mail, return receipt
      requested and regular mail to the owner Owner and/or manager Manager at the address furnished to the
      city City on the business license application for the apartment Apartment complex or the owner's address as
      reflected in the records of the Salt Lake County recorder or assessor's office. Service of notice is complete
      even if the certified or regular mail is returned as undeliverable, refused or unclaimed.

4.20.060 Reduction of penalty for obtaining good landlord certification.
     An owner Owner that has received a civil penalty for maintaining a nuisance [in] an apartment Apartment
complex and that, within sixty (60) days of receiving the penalty, obtains a good landlord certification, is entitled to
a remittance of one-half the civil penalty and removal of the most recent incident Incident from its record. The
opportunity for an owner Owner to receive a remittance of one-half of a civil penalty and removal of the most
recent incident Incident is only available once per landlord Landlord. This section does not permit a landlord
Landlord to enroll in the good landlord Landlord program if the landlord’s Landlord’s status under that program is
currently suspended or revoked.

4.20.070 Appeal.
      Any owner Owner that receives a notice under this part shall be entitled to request an administrative hearing
as set forth in Section 2.22.040 of this code. The failure to appeal a notice of any incident Incident shall be deemed
a waiver of the right to object to that incident Incident being counted against the owner. The administrative law


                                                     Page 25 of 54
judge shall consider only the incident Incident or nuisance for which an appeal was timely filed, and shall consider
any non-appealed incident Incident as counting against the owner.

4.20.080 Defenses.
A.    An incident Incident shall not be counted against the owner Owner of an apartment Apartment complex who
      can demonstrate the following:
      1.    The tenant Tenant or guest was the victim of a crime, and that crime was not committed by another
            tenant Tenant or guest to the rental property.
      2.    Where, due to federal law or regulation, an owner Owner or manager Manager lacks sufficient basis to
            evict a tenant, it shall be a defense that the owner Owner or manager Manager has taken reasonable
            measures to prevent reoccurrence of nuisance behavior by a tenant.
B.    After eviction proceedings have been initiated against a tenant, a subsequent incident Incident caused by the
      tenant Tenant or tenant's guest, while the eviction proceeding is pending, shall not be counted against the
      owner.
       A civil penalty in the amount established in the consolidated fee schedule shall be assessed for each violation
of this chapter.

                                 Chapter 4.24 MOBILE HOME PARKS
                                       AND TRAILER COURTS


4.24.010 Adopt county ordinance.
     The current Salt Lake City/County health regulations regarding mobile Mobile home parks shall apply to
mobile Mobile home parks/trailer courts within the city City of South Salt Lake.

4.24.020 Interpretation.
     The city City -county ordinance is a supplement to this chapter and is intended to enlarge the scope thereof.
Wherever conflicts exist between the two, the interpretation as set forth in this chapter shall prevail and take
precedence except in such instances as the state statutes shall require more stringent rules for compliance
therewith, in which case the requirements in the state code must be complied with.

4.24.030 License.
       It is unlawful for any person Person to maintain or operate a mobile Mobile home park within the limits of
the city City, unless such person Person shall first obtain a license therefor, except that the maintenance or
operation of a mobile Mobile home park in existence on the effective date of this chapter may be continued under
present license, provided it conforms with minimum regulations as set forth within this chapter, together with all
existing ordinances.

4.24.040 License fees.
     The fee for such a license shall be determined in accordance with the consolidated fee schedule, or any
subsequent superseding ordinance or resolution by the city council City Council.




                                                    Page 26 of 54
4.24.050 Permit fee.
       For the initial construction of a mobile Mobile home park there shall be a fee to be set by resolution of the
city council City Council and in addition the builder of such park shall be required to pay the usual building permit
fee as required in the Uniform Building Code in effect at the time of construction.

4.24.060 Application for license.
A.    Application for Initial License. Application for an initial mobile Mobile home park license shall be filed with
      and issued by the business license official Business License Official upon approval by the board of health. The
      application shall be in writing, signed by the applicant and shall include the following:
      1.    The name and address of the applicant;
      2.    The location and legal description of the mobile Mobile home park;
      3.    A complete plan of the park in conformity with the requirements of this chapter;
      4.    Plans and specifications of all buildings, improvements and facilities constructed or to be constructed
            within the mobile Mobile home park;
      5.    The number, size, location and type of all mobile Mobile home spaces;
      6.    Such further information as may be requested by the board of health to enable it to determine if the
            proposed park will comply with legal requirements.
             The application and all accompanying plans and specifications shall be filed in triplicate. The board of
      health shall investigate the applicant and inspect the application and the proposed plans and specifications.
      If the applicant is of good moral character, and the proposed mobile Mobile home park will, when
      constructed or altered in accordance with such plans and specifications, be in compliance with all provisions
      of this chapter and all other applicable ordinances and statutes, the board of health shall approve the
      applications, and upon completion of the park according to the plans the business license official Business
      License Official shall issue the license.
B.    Application for Renewal License. Upon application in writing by a licensee for renewal of a license, and upon
      payment of the annual license fee, the business license official Business License Official shall issue a
      certificate approving the renewing of such license for another year.

4.24.070 Location.
      Mobile home parks may be located in business/commercial/industrial zones only and shall have a minimum
area of three acres. Each boundary of the park must be at least two hundred (200) feet from any permanent
residential building located outside the park, unless separated therefrom by a natural or artificial barrier,
consisting of a six-foot high fence, visual barrier, wall, or hedge properly related to surrounding topography and
the character of the surrounding development shall be provided along such boundary, or unless a majority of the
property owners, according to area within the two hundred (200) feet, consent in writing to the establishment of
the park without such wall.

4.24.080 Mobile home park plan.
      The mobile Mobile home park shall conform to the following requirements:
      A.    The park shall be located on a well-drained site, properly graded to ensure rapid drainage and freedom
            from stagnant pools of water.
      B.    Mobile home spaces shall be provided consisting of a minimum of one thousand five hundred (1,500)
            square feet for each space which shall be at least thirty (30) feet wide and clearly defined; provided,



                                                     Page 27 of 54
            however, that mobile Mobile home parks in existence on the effective date of this chapter which
            provide mobile Mobile home spaces having a width or area less than that hereinabove prescribed may
            continue to operate with spaces of the existing width and area, but in no event shall any mobile space
            be less than twenty-five (25) feet wide and have an area of less than one thousand (1,000) square feet.
      C.    Mobile homes shall be so harbored on each space that there shall be at least a fifteen-foot clearance
            between mobile Mobile homes, provided, however, that with respect to mobile Mobile homes parked
            end-to-end, the clearance may be less than fifteen (15) feet but shall not be less than ten feet. No
            mobile Mobile home shall be located closer than ten feet from any building within the park or from any
            property line bounding the park.
      D.    All mobile Mobile home spaces shall abut upon a driveway of not less than twenty (20) feet in width,
            which shall have unobstructed access to a public street, alley or highway.
      E.    Walkways not less than two feet wide shall be provided from the mobile Mobile home spaces to the
            service Service buildings.
      F.    All driveways and walkways within the park shall be hard surfaced and lighted at night with electric
            lamps of not less than twenty-five (25) watts each, spaced at intervals of not more than one hundred
            (100) feet.
      G.    Each park shall provide service Service buildings to house such toilet, bathing and other sanitation
            facilities and such laundry facilities as are hereinafter more particularly prescribed.
      H.    An electrical outlet supplying at least one hundred ten (110) volts shall be provided for each mobile
            Mobile home space.

4.24.090 Water supply.
      An adequate supply of pure water for drinking and domestic purposes shall be supplied by pipes to all
buildings and mobile Mobile home spaces within the park to meet the requirements of the park. Each mobile
Mobile home space shall be provided with a cold water tap at least four inches above the ground. An adequate
supply of hot water shall be provided at all times in the service Service buildings for all bathing, washing, cleansing
and laundry facilities.

4.24.100 Sanitation facilities.
      Each park accommodating dependent mobile Mobile homes shall be provided with toilets, baths or showers,
slop sinks and other sanitation facilities which shall conform to the following requirements:
      A.    Toilet facilities for males shall consist of not less than one flush toilet and one urinal for the first fifteen
            (15) dependent mobile Mobile homes or any less number thereof, and for dependent mobile Mobile
            homes in excess of fifteen (15), not less than one additional flush toilet and one additional urinal for
            every fifteen (15) additional dependent mobile Mobile homes or fractional number thereof.
      B.    Toilet facilities for females shall consist of not less than one flush toilet for the first ten dependent
            mobile Mobile homes or any less number thereof, and for dependent mobile Mobile homes in excess
            of ten, not less than one additional flush toilet for every ten additional dependent mobile Mobile
            homes or fractional number thereof.
      C.    Each sex shall be provided with not less than one lavatory and one shower or bathtub with individual
            dressing accommodations for the first ten dependent mobile Mobile homes or any less number
            thereof, and for dependent mobile Mobile homes in excess of ten, not less than one additional lavatory
            and one additional shower or bathtub with individual dressing accommodations for every ten
            additional dependent mobile Mobile homes or fractional number thereof.
      D.    Each toilet and each shower or bathtub with individual dressing accommodations, for which provision
            is made in subsections (A), (B) and (C) of this section, shall be in a private compartment or stall.


                                                       Page 28 of 54
     E.    The toilet and other sanitation facilities for males and females shall be either in separate buildings or
           shall be separated, if in the same building, by a soundproof wall.
     F.    There shall be provided in a separate compartment or stall not less than one flush toilet bowl
           receptacle for emptying bed pans or other containers or human excreta and an adequate supply of hot
           running water, for cleansing such bed pans or containers.

4.24.110 Laundry facilities.
A.   Laundry facilities shall be provided in either of the following ratios:
     1.    Not less than one double laundry tray and one conventional wringer type washing machine for the first
           twenty-five (25) mobile Mobile home spaces or any less number thereof, and for mobile Mobile home
           spaces in excess of twenty-five (25), not less than one additional conventional wringer type washing
           machine for every twenty-five (25) additional home spaces or fractional number thereof; or
     2.    Not less than one single laundry tray and one automatic or semi-automatic type washing machine for
           the first twenty-five (25) mobile Mobile home spaces or any less number thereof, and for mobile
           Mobile home spaces in excess of twenty-five (25), not less than one additional single laundry tray and
           one additional automatic or semi-automatic type washing machine for every twenty-five (25)
           additional mobile Mobile home spaces or fractional number thereof.
B.   An ample number of electrical outlets shall be provided supplying current sufficient to operate each washing
     machine. Drying spaces shall be provided sufficient to accommodate the laundry of the mobile Mobile home
     occupants if automatic drying equipment is not supplied.
C.   The laundry facilities shall be either in a separate building or, if [in] the same building where sanitation
     facilities are housed, shall be separated from the rooms housing the sanitation facilities by a soundproof
     wall.

4.24.120 Service buildings.
A.   Service buildings housing sanitation and laundry facilities, or any of such facilities, shall be permanent
     structures Structures complying with all applicable ordinances and statutes regulating buildings, electrical
     installations and plumbing and sanitation systems.
B.   The service Service buildings shall be well lighted at all times of the day and night, shall be well ventilated
     with screened openings, shall be constructed of such moisture-proof material, including painted woodwork,
     as shall permit repeated cleaning and washing, and shall be maintained at a temperature of at least sixty-
     eight (68) degrees Fahrenheit during the period from October 1st to May 1st. The floors of the service
     Service buildings shall be of water impervious material.
C.   Service buildings housing sanitation facilities shall be located not closer than ten feet nor farther than two
     hundred (200) feet from any mobile Mobile home space upon which a dependent mobile Mobile home is
     harbored.
D.   All service Service buildings and the grounds of the park shall be maintained in a clean, sightly condition and
     kept free of any condition that will menace the health of any occupant or the public or constitute a nuisance.

4.24.130 Sewage and refuse disposal.
A.   Waste from showers, bathtubs, flush toilets, urinals, lavatories, slop sinks and laundries in service and other
     buildings within the park shall be discharged into a public sewer system in compliance with applicable
     ordinances or into a private sewer and disposal plant or septic tank system of such construction and in such
     manner as will present no health hazard.




                                                     Page 29 of 54
B.   Each mobile Mobile home space shall be provided with a trapped sewer at least four inches in diameter,
     which shall be connected to receive the waste from the shower, bathtub, flush toilet, lavatory and kitchen
     sink of the mobile Mobile home harbored in such space and having any or all such facilities. The trapped
     sewer in each space shall be connected to discharge the mobile Mobile home waste into a public sewer
     system in compliance with applicable ordinances or into a private sewer disposal plant or septic tank system
     of such construction and in such manner as will present no health hazard.

4.24.140 Garbage receptacles.
     Metal garbage cans with tight-fitting covers shall be provided in quantities adequate to permit disposal of all
garbage and rubbish. Garbage cans shall be located not farther than three hundred (300) feet from any mobile
Mobile home space. The cans shall be kept in sanitary condition at all times. Garbage and rubbish shall be collected
and disposed of as frequently as may be necessary to ensure that the garbage cans shall not overflow.

4.24.150 Fire protection.
      Every park shall be equipped at all times with fire extinguishing equipment in good working order, of such
type, size and number and so located within the park as to satisfy applicable reasonable regulations of the fire
department. No open fires shall be permitted any place which may endanger life or property. No fires shall be left
unattended at any time.

4.24.160 Animals and pets.
     No owner Owner or person Person in charge of any dog, cat or other pet animal shall permit it to run at large
or commit any nuisance within the limits of any mobile Mobile home park.

4.24.170 Register of occupants.
    It is the duty of each licensee and permittee to keep a register containing a record of all mobile Mobile home
owners and occupants located within the park. The register shall contain the following information:
     A.    The name and address of each mobile Mobile home occupant;
     B.    The name and address of the owner Owner of each mobile Mobile home and motor vehicle by which it
           is towed;
     C.    The make, model, year and license number of each mobile Mobile home and motor vehicle;
     D.    The state, territory or country issuing such licenses;
     E.    The date of arrival and of departure of each mobile Mobile home;
     F.    Whether or not each mobile Mobile home is a dependent or independent mobile Mobile home.
           The park shall keep the register available for inspection at all times by law enforcement officers, public
     health officials and other officials whose duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in the
     register. The register record for each occupant registered shall not be destroyed for a period of three years
     following the date of departure of the registrant from the park.

4.24.180 Supervision.
      The licensee or permittee, or a duly authorized attendant or caretaker, shall be in charge at all times to keep
the mobile Mobile home park, its facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition. The attendant
or caretaker shall be answerable, with the licensee, for the violation of any provision of this chapter to which the
licensee or permittee is subject.



                                                    Page 30 of 54
4.24.190 Revocation of license.
      The business license official Business License Official, upon recommendation of the board of health, may
revoke any license to maintain and operate a park when the licensee has been found guilty of violating any
provision of this chapter. After such conviction, the license may be reissued if the circumstances leading to
conviction have been remedied and the park is being maintained and operated in full compliance with law.

4.24.200 Posting of license.
    The license certificate shall be conspicuously posted in the office of or on the premises of the mobile Mobile
home park at all times.

4.24.210 Separability of provisions.
      Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this chapter.

4.24.220 City-county health department enforcement.
      The city City-county health department by agreement previously executed may enforce on behalf of the city
City of South Salt Lake any violation of a health or sanitation ordinance as covered by the ordinance adopted by
reference in this chapter.

                                  Chapter 4.28 HOUSING INSPECTOR

4.28.010 Duties.
A.    The city City may employ a housing inspector in order to achieve compliance with Title 4 of this code. The
      housing inspector may:
      1.    Conduct inspections of rental dwellings Rental Dwellings to the extent permitted by state law;
      2.    Identify and abate violations of this code relating to rental dwellings Rental Dwellings;
      3.    Investigate complaints of unsanitary living conditions in all rental dwellings Rental Dwellings located
            within the city City, or unsafe conditions in any dwelling Dwelling located within the city City;
      4.    Close dwellings Dwellings to occupancy in cases of serious Serious safety violations as provided in
            Section 4.28.030.
B.    Any city City employee or independent contractor who holds a building inspector certification issued by the
      state of Utah's Division of Occupational and Professional Licensing may be assigned the housing inspector's
      duties.

4.28.020 Right to inspect rental dwellings Rental Dwellings.
A.    The housing inspector may demand entry into any rental dwelling Rental Dwelling within the city City, to the
      extent permitted by state law, in order to accomplish a regulatory search for health, safety and sanitation
      violations.
      1.    If entry to the dwelling Dwelling is denied by a tenant, the inspector shall not enter without obtaining a
            warrant to enter the premises, unless other exigencies make the entry reasonable.




                                                     Page 31 of 54
     2.   Inspections of occupied dwellings Dwellings shall be made during daytime hours and shall be limited to
          identifying violations of health, safety and fit premises codes.
     3.   Inspection reports shall be created for each inspection.
     4.   Within ten business days after completing the inspection, the inspector shall send or deliver a copy of
          the inspection report to the owner Owner and manager Manager of the dwelling Dwelling. The
          inspector shall establish reasonable deadlines for the owner Owner to remedy any identified violations,
          after which deadlines the owner Owner shall be subject to fines as established in the consolidated fee
          schedule.
     5.   If a rental property is being kept in violation of the state or city’s City’s fit premises laws, the time
          allowed for repair shall be as provided in Section 57-22-6 of the Utah Code. In cases where permits
          must be drawn to perform the work, deadlines relate to the acquisition of permits.
     6.   A landlord Landlord who causes all tenants Tenants to vacate the defective dwelling Dwelling unit
          during a corrective period is not in violation so long as the rental dwelling Rental Dwelling remains
          unoccupied.
B.   Premises found to be in violation shall be subject to re-inspection to ensure compliance, and shall be subject
     to inspection until compliance is obtained.
C.   Premises shall be subject to inspection upon reasonable cause to believe that violations of applicable codes
     exist, as described in Section 4.28.030.
D.   An owner Owner or manager Manager who refuses to provide access to the housing inspector, or who
     ignores requests to obtain access, shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and is subject to additional civil
     penalties, including business license suspension and decertification from the good landlord Landlord
     program. A tenant's refusal to allow access to a specific unit shall not be grounds to suspend, revoke or deny
     the landlord’s Landlord’s license. It is not a defense under this subsection that the owner Owner or manager
     Manager would have allowed a different city City inspector onto the premises.

4.28.030 Cause for inspections.
A.   The inspector may inspect rental housing in any of the following circumstances:
     1.   Upon receipt of a complaint by tenants Tenants or owners regarding conditions or violations at the
          property;
     2.   Upon the discovery of facts or conditions in one unit which are reasonably likely to be present in
          multiple units within the rental property;
     3.   Upon the discovery of facts through external inspection of units which give rise to cause to believe that
          violations exist within the units;
     4.   Upon the complaint of a third party, whether a resident of the property or not, of public nuisances
          originating at a unit or series of units, such as odor or noise;
     5.   Pursuant to a conditional use inspection program, if one exists for the property at issue;
     6.   Upon referral by another governmental agency of a potentially dangerous condition at the property;
     7.   Upon receipt of any other credible facts or reports giving rise to a belief that conditions on the
          property are inadequate or in violation of state or local law; or
     8.   Upon receipt of consent for a voluntary inspection by a tenant.
B.   Premises found to be in violation shall be subject to re-inspection as the inspector deems appropriate to
     ensure compliance, and shall be subject to continuing inspections until compliance is obtained. Failure to
     bring the units into compliance within a reasonable time as determined by the community development



                                                    Page 32 of 54
     department Community Development Department shall be grounds for denial, suspension or revocation of a
     business license and/or application or other applicable penalties and actions allowed under law.
C.   If a rental property is in violation of the state or city’s City’s fit premises laws, the time allowed for repair
     shall be as provided in Section 57-22-6 of the Utah Code. A landlord Landlord who chooses to relocate a
     tenant Tenant during a corrective period is not in violation so long as the rental dwelling Rental Dwelling
     remains unoccupied while the repairs are underway.

4.28.040 Authority to evacuate, condemn or close to occupancy.
A.   The housing inspector may close to occupancy any rental dwelling Rental Dwelling unit within the city City
     which constitutes a serious Serious safety violation and which has not been corrected within the deadlines
     established by the inspector. Closure to occupancy shall be reserved for violations of safety codes and which
     warrant prompt action under those codes.
B.   The housing inspector may, immediately and without prior notification of violation, evacuate and close to
     occupancy any dwelling Dwelling which presents an imminent threat to the lives of any human occupant. A
     threat to life safety is imminent if the continued presence of the occupant is likely to result in the death or
     permanent physical injury of the occupant. Life safety dangers include such hazards as detectable
     concentrations of carbon monoxide or structural inadequacies likely to result in collapse.
C.   Occupancy shall not be resumed until the conditions are corrected and the housing inspector has
     determined that the property is in compliance with relevant codes.

4.28.050 Appeals—Temporary stays.
A.   Appeal may be taken by any person Person aggrieved by the housing inspector's decision, and may be filed in
     accordance with Chapter 22 of Title 2 of this code.
B.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, an appeal of a closure to occupancy does not automatically
     stay the imposition of that closure.
C.   In appeals from closures to occupancy, the case shall be heard on the next available administrative law
     calendar, unless the parties agree to a continuance or the administrative law judge finds that a party will be
     unable to attend or present the party's evidence due to unforeseen circumstances. Failure to obtain counsel
     or prepare a case is not good cause to obtain a continuance. An appealing party who requests a continuance
     waives any objection to the closure to occupancy remaining in place.
D.   After filing an appeal, the appealing party may request a stay of the closure while the appeal is pending.
     1.    The administrative law judge, within two business days of the city’s City’s receipt of the stay request,
           shall review the city’s City’s evidence, which may include photographs, excerpts of code, and reports,
           and consider whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the order will be upheld. No briefing or oral
           argument may be considered by the administrative law judge when considering a stay, but the
           appealing party may present, with the stay request, a statement explaining why closure should not
           proceed.
     2.    If the administrative law judge finds that the evidence presented by the official does not support a
           reasonable likelihood that the closure to occupancy is justified, then it shall stay the closure pending
           the hearing.
     3.    Within twenty-four (24) hours of receipt of the administrative law judge's decision to stay the closure,
           a city City official shall remove the closure and inform the appealing party of the judge's decision.
     4.    The stay, if granted, shall be in effect until the next available administrative law hearing, at which time
           the court may extend the stay for good cause.




                                                      Page 33 of 54
      5.    Any decision regarding temporary stays may not be appealed to the district court, being provisional in
            nature.

                              Chapter 4.32 HOUSING DISCRIMINATION

4.32.010 Purpose.
A.    Every individual in the city City has the right to seek housing. Discriminatory housing practices are
      detrimental because they impede the social and economic progress of the city City by preventing all of the
      city’s City’s citizens from contributing to or fully participating in the cultural, spiritual, social and commercial
      life of the community, which is essential to the growth and vitality of the city’s City’s neighborhoods and
      businesses.
B.    The Utah Fair Housing Act, Utah Code Section 57-21-1 et seq., addresses housing related discrimination
      Discrimination based on race; color; religion; sex; national origin; familial status; source of income; and
      disability, but does not address discrimination Discrimination based on sexual Sexual orientation or gender
      Gender identity.
C.    South Salt Lake City has found that discrimination Discrimination in housing on the basis of sexual Sexual
      orientation and gender Gender identity must be addressed. The denial or deprivation of access to housing
      because of an individual's sexual Sexual orientation or gender Gender identity is detrimental to the health,
      safety, and welfare of the city’s City’s citizens and damages the city’s City’s economic well being. The purpose
      of this chapter is to provide a clear and comprehensive mandate for the prevention and elimination of
      discrimination Discrimination in housing in the city City against individuals based upon sexual Sexual
      orientation or gender Gender identity and this chapter shall be liberally construed to achieve that purpose.

4.32.020 Administration.
      The mayor Mayor is responsible for administering and implementing this chapter.

4.32.030 No private right of action; no special rights.
      This chapter does not create a private cause of action, nor does it create any right or remedy that is the same
or substantially equivalent to the remedies provided under federal or state law. This chapter does not create any
special rights or privileges which would not be available to all of the city’s City’s citizens because every person
Person has a sexual Sexual orientation and a gender Gender identity.

4.32.040 Severability.
      If any section, sentence, paragraph, term, definition or provision of this chapter is for any reason determined
to be illegal, invalid, superseded by other authority or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction or by
any state or federal regulatory authority having jurisdiction thereof, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct, and independent provision and such determination shall have no effect on the validity of any other
section, sentence, paragraph, term, definition or provision of this chapter, all of which will remain in full force and
effect.



4.32.050 Definitions.
      The following terms are defined solely for the purposes of this chapter:


South Salt Lake, Utah, Code of Ordinances                                                     Created: 2024-01-12 07:01:14 [EST]

(Supp. No. 62)

                                                       Page 34 of 54
      "City" shall mean the City of South Salt Lake, Utah.
      "City attorney " shall mean the duly appointed city attorney.
      "Community development director " shall mean the duly appointed Community development director.
     "Complainant" shall mean a person, including the Community development director, who files a complaint
under this chapter.
      "Conciliation" shall mean the attempted resolution of issues raised in a complaint filed under this chapter, or
raised in the investigation of the complaint, through informal negotiations involving the complainant, the
respondent, and the housing administrator.
      "Conciliation agreement" shall mean a written agreement setting forth the resolution of issues by
conciliation under this chapter.
       "Discrimination" shall mean any direct or indirect exclusion, distinction, segregation, limitation, refusal,
denial, or other differentiation in the treatment of a person or persons because of a person’s actual or perceived
sexual orientation or gender identity or because of a person’s association with any such person. Discrimination
shall not be interpreted to require or to grant or accord preferential treatment to any person because of that
person’s sexual orientation or gender identity.
       "Dwelling" shall mean any building or portion thereof which is designed for use as residential purposes,
except hotels, mobile homes, motels and apartment complexes, that has been approved for residential use by the
city’s building official.
      "Gender identity" shall mean a person’s actual or perceived gender identity, appearance, mannerisms, or
other characteristics of a person with or without regard to the person’s sex at birth.
      "Housing administrator" shall mean the person designated by the mayor to receive, investigate, and
conciliate complaints under this chapter, or another designated representative of the city.
      "Mayor" shall mean the duly elected or appointed and qualified mayor of Salt Lake City.
      "Person" includes one or more individuals, corporations, limited liability companies, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint stock companies, trusts,
unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases under the United States bankruptcy code, receivers, and
fiduciaries.
      "Real estate broker or salesperson" shall mean a principal real estate broker, an associate real estate broker,
or a real estate sales agent as those terms are defined in Utah Code Section 61-2-2 or any successor provision.
      "Religious organization" shall mean a religious corporation, association, educational institution, society, trust,
or any entity or association which is a wholly owned or controlled subsidiary or agency of any religious
corporation, association, society, trust or corporation sole.
     "Rent" shall mean to lease, sublease, let, or otherwise grant for a consideration the right to occupy premises
not owned by the occupant.
      "Residential real estate related transaction" shall mean the making or purchasing of loans or providing other
financial assistance for purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a dwelling; or secured by
residential real estate; or selling, brokering, or appraising residential real property inside the city.
      "Respondent" shall mean a person identified in a complaint as having committed an unlawful housing
practice under this chapter.
      "Sexual orientation" shall mean a person’s actual or perceived orientation as heterosexual, homosexual, or
bisexual.
      "Unlawful practice" shall mean a discriminatory act or practice relating to housing that is prohibited under
this chapter.



                                                     Page 35 of 54
4.32.060 4.32.050 Exemptions.
A.   This chapter does not apply to a temporary or permanent residence facility operated by a nonprofit
     organization; a charitable organization; or a person Person in conjunction with a religious Religious
     organization, association, or society, including any dormitory operated by a public or private educational
     institution, if the discrimination Discrimination is based on sexual Sexual orientation or gender Gender
     identity for reasons of personal modesty or privacy or in the furtherance of a religious Religious
     organization's sincerely held religious beliefs.
B.   This chapter does not prohibit or restrict a religious Religious organization or any nonprofit institution or
     organization operated, supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious Religious organization
     from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of dwellings Dwellings it owns or operates for primarily
     noncommercial purposes to persons Persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons
     Persons.
C.   This chapter does not prohibit distinctions based on a person’s Person’s inability or failure to fulfill the terms
     and conditions, including financial obligations, of a lease, rental Rental agreement, contract of purchase or
     sale, mortgage, trust deed, or other financing agreement.
D.   This chapter does not apply to: a) the United States government, any of its departments or agencies, or any
     corporation wholly owned by it; or b) the government of the state of Utah or any of its departments,
     agencies, or political subdivisions, except for the city City.

4.32.070 4.32.060 Unlawful housing practices.
A.   Discriminatory Housing Practices. It is a discriminatory housing practice to do any of the following:
     1.    Refuse to sell or rent Rent after the making of a bona fide offer, refuse to negotiate for the sale or
           rental, or otherwise deny or make unavailable any dwelling Dwelling from any person Person because
           of the person’s Person’s sexual Sexual orientation or gender Gender identity;
     2.    Discriminate against any person Person in the terms, conditions, or privileges of the sale or rental of
           any dwelling Dwelling or in providing facilities or services in connection with the dwelling Dwelling
           because of the person’s Person’s sexual Sexual orientation or gender Gender identity;
     3.    Represent to any person Person that any dwelling Dwelling is not available for inspection, sale, or
           rental when in fact the dwelling Dwelling is available;
     4.    Make a representation orally or in writing or make, print, circulate, publish, post, or cause to be made,
           printed, circulated, published, or posted any notice, statement, or advertisement, or to use any
           application form for the sale or rental of a dwelling Dwelling, that directly or indirectly expresses any
           preference, limitation, or discrimination Discrimination based on sexual Sexual orientation or gender
           Gender identity, or expresses any intent to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination
           Discrimination;
     5.    Induce or attempt to induce, for profit, any person Person to buy, sell, or rent Rent any dwelling
           Dwelling by making representations about the entry or prospective entry into the neighborhood of
           persons Persons of a particular sexual Sexual orientation or gender Gender identity;
     6.    Engage in any discriminatory housing practices because of sexual Sexual orientation or gender Gender
           identity based upon a person’s Person’s association with another person.
B.   Discriminatory Housing Practice by Broker or Salesperson. It is a discriminatory housing practice for a real
     Real estate broker or salesperson to do any of the following because of a person’s Person’s sexual Sexual
     orientation or gender Gender identity:




                                                    Page 36 of 54
     1.    Discriminate against any person Person in making available a residential Residential real estate
           transaction, or in the terms or conditions of the transaction, inside the city City, because of a person’s
           Person’s sexual Sexual orientation or gender Gender identity;
     2.    Deny any person Person access to, or membership or participation in, any multiple listing service, real
           Real estate brokers' organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the business of
           selling or renting dwellings inside the city City or to discriminate against any person Person in the terms
           or conditions of access, membership, or participation in the organization, service, or facility inside the
           city City because of a person’s Person’s sexual Sexual orientation or gender Gender identity; or
     3.    Engage in any discriminatory housing practices inside the city City because of sexual Sexual orientation
           or gender Gender identity based upon a person’s Person’s association with another person.
C.   Exceptions. This chapter does not apply to the following:
     1.    The sale or rental of any single-family dwelling Dwelling, if the owner:
           a.    Does not own an interest in or title to four or more single-family dwellings Dwellings held for
                 lease or sale at one time located inside the city City;
           b.    Has not sold two or more single-family dwellings Dwellings inside the city City in which the owner
                 Owner did not reside in the dwelling Dwelling within the twenty-four-month period preceding
                 the sale or rental of the dwelling Dwelling; and
           c.    Does not use the services or facilities of any real Real estate broker, agent, or salesperson, or of
                 any other person Person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, in connection with the
                 sale or rental of the dwelling Dwelling inside the city City.
     2.    The rental of a dwelling Dwelling that is occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than four
           families living independently of each other, when the owner Owner actually maintains and occupies
           part of the dwelling Dwelling as a residence.
     3.    Nothing in this section prohibits conduct against a person Person because of the person’s Person’s
           conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction of the illegal manufacture or distribution of a controlled
           substance under state or federal law.

4.32.080 4.32.070 Unlawful intimidation, retaliation, and coercion.
       It is unlawful for any person Person to discriminate against, harass, threaten, harm, damage, or otherwise
penalize another person Person for opposing an unlawful Unlawful practice, for filing a complaint, or for testifying,
assisting, or participating in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this chapter.

4.32.090 4.32.080 Procedures for filing complaints.
A.   Any person Person who claims to have been injured by an unlawful housing practice may file a complaint
     with the city City recorder. A complaint may also be filed by the Community development director
     Community Development Director if the city City has reasonable cause to believe that a person Person has
     committed an unlawful housing practice. A complaint must be filed within one hundred eighty (180) calendar
     days after an alleged unlawful housing practice has occurred.
B.   A complaint must be in writing on a form provided by the city City recorder, made under oath or affirmation,
     and contain the following information:
     1.    The complainant’s Complainant’s name, address, and signature;
     2.    The date the alleged unlawful housing practice occurred;
     3.    A statement of the facts upon which the allegation of an unlawful Unlawful practice is based; and
     4.    The respondent's Respondent’s name and address.


                                                    Page 37 of 54
C.   Promptly after the filing of a complaint, the housing Housing administrator shall:
     1.   Provide the respondent Respondent named in the complaint written notice that a complaint alleging
          the commission of an unlawful housing practice has been filed against the respondent;
     2.   Furnish a copy of the complaint to the respondent; and
     3.   Advise the respondent Respondent of the respondent's Respondent’s procedural rights and
          obligations, including the right to file a written, signed, and verified informal answer to the complaint
          within fifteen (15) days after service of notice of the complaint.
D.   Not later than the fifteenth day after service of the notice and copy of the complaint, a respondent
     Respondent may file an answer to the complaint with the housing Housing administrator. The answer must
     be in writing, made under oath or affirmation, and contain the following information:
     1.   The respondent's Respondent’s name, address, telephone number, and signature of the respondent
          Respondent or the respondent's Respondent’s attorney, if any; and
     2.   A concise statement of facts in response to the allegations in the complaint, including facts of any
          defense or exception.

4.32.100 4.32.090 Investigation.
A.   Upon the filing of a complaint, the housing Housing administrator shall commence an investigation to
     determine the facts behind the complaint and whether there is reasonable cause to believe the respondent
     Respondent committed an unlawful housing practice, except that no investigation may commence if, after
     reviewing the allegations of the complaint, the housing Housing administrator determines that the complaint
     does not come within the scope of this chapter. Upon determining that a particular complaint does not come
     within the scope of this chapter, the housing Housing administrator shall dismiss the complaint, notify the
     complainant Complainant and the respondent Respondent and take no further action.
B.   In connection with any investigation of a complaint filed under this chapter, the housing Housing
     administrator shall seek the voluntary cooperation of any person Person to:
     1.   Obtain access to premises, records, documents, individuals, and any other possible source of
          information;
     2.   Examine, record, and copy necessary materials; and
     3.   Take and record testimony or statements of any person Person reasonably necessary for the
          furtherance of the investigation.
C.   The Community development director Community Development Director may request the city attorney City
     Attorney to issue an executive branch subpoena or subpoena duces tecum to compel the attendance of a
     witness or the production of relevant materials or documents.
D.   The Community development director Community Development Director may dismiss a complaint during the
     investigation if the housing Housing administrator determines that:
     1.   The complaint was not filed within the required time period;
     2.   The location of the alleged unlawful housing practice is not within the city’s City’s jurisdiction;
     3.   The alleged unlawful housing practice is not a violation of this chapter;
     4.   The complainant Complainant refuses to cooperate with the housing Housing administrator in the
          investigation of the complaint or enforcement of an executed conciliation Conciliation agreement;
     5.   The complainant Complainant cannot be located after the housing Housing administrator has
          performed a reasonable search; or




                                                    Page 38 of 54
     6.    A conciliation Conciliation agreement has been executed by the complainant Complainant and
           respondent.

4.32.110 4.32.100 Conciliation.
A.   During or after the investigation, but subsequent to the mailing of the notice of the complaint to the
     respondent Respondent, the housing Housing administrator shall, at the request of the Community
     development director Community Development Director, attempt to conciliate the complaint if it appears
     that the respondent Respondent has committed an unlawful housing practice. In conciliating a complaint,
     the administrator shall try to achieve a just resolution and obtain assurances that the respondent
     Respondent will satisfactorily remedy any violation of the complainant’s Complainant’s rights and take action
     to ensure the elimination of both present and future unlawful housing practices. A conciliation Conciliation
     agreement may include: sensitivity training for the respondent Respondent and/or the respondent's
     Respondent’s employees; the respondent's Respondent’s agreement to adopt and pursue a policy of
     nondiscrimination in its practices; and the respondent's Respondent’s agreement to not engage in
     discriminatory practices in the future.
B.   A conciliation Conciliation agreement executed under this section must be in writing in a form approved by
     the city attorney City Attorney and must be signed and verified by the respondent Respondent and the
     complainant Complainant, subject to approval of the Community development director Community
     Development Director who shall indicate approval by signing the agreement.
C.   If a respondent Respondent voluntarily enters into a conciliation Conciliation agreement, the Community
     development director Community Development Director shall immediately dismiss the complaint.

4.32.120 4.32.110 Disposition of a complaint.
A.   If, upon completion of an investigation of a complaint, the Community development director Community
     Development Director determines that an unlawful housing practice has occurred and is unable to secure an
     acceptable conciliation Conciliation agreement from the respondent, then the Community development
     director Community Development Directorshall refer the case to the city attorney City Attorney. The
     Community development director Community Development Director shall refer the entire file to the city
     attorney City Attorney, who shall determine how best to pursue further action, if any, on the complaint.
B.   If the city attorney City Attorney determines that cause exists that an unlawful housing practice occurred and
     the facts are sufficient to warrant the initiation of an administrative action, then the city attorney City
     Attorney shall provide written notification to the respondent Respondent and the complainant Complainant
     that an action to enforce this chapter may be submitted to the administrative law judge. If the city attorney
     City Attorney determines that there is no cause that an unlawful housing practice occurred or that the facts
     are insufficient to warrant the initiation of an action by the administrative law judge, the city attorney City
     Attorney shall provide written notification to the respondent Respondent and the complainant Complainant
     and notify the Community development director Community Development Director, who shall then dismiss
     the complaint.

4.32.130 4.32.120 Offenses and penalties.
      A person Person violates this chapter if the person Person intentionally or knowingly violates a provision of
this chapter or if the person Person intentionally or knowingly obstructs or prevents compliance with this chapter.
An offense committed under this chapter by a respondent Respondent owning or operating twenty (20) or fewer
dwellings Dwellings is punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). An offense committed
under this chapter by a respondent Respondent owning or operating twenty-one (21) or more dwellings Dwellings
or by a real Real estate broker or salesperson is punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).




                                                   Page 39 of 54
4.32.140 4.32.130 Record designation.
      Complaints, notices, conciliation Conciliation agreements and any other records created or received under
this chapter are designated as private documents under Utah law. These records will contain data on individuals'
sexual Sexual orientation, gender Gender identity and other matters of a personal nature, rendering the public
release of any such documents a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. A document filed with the
administrative law judge is presumed to be public, so long as private information is redacted prior to its release.

                                       Chapter 17.01 DEFINITIONS
Sections:

17.01.010 Definitions.

…
          “Short-Term Rental” means renting all or portion of a property for less than thirty (30) days at a time.

          “Short-Term Rental (STR)" means a residential unit or any portion of a residential unit that the Owner of
record or the lessee of the residential unit offers for occupancy for fewer than 30 consecutive days and is: an
Owner-Occupied Duplex; an Owner-Occupied Rental Property; or in a property owned by a Primary Resident who
resides in South Salt Lake.
…

                       Chapter 17.03 LAND-USE DISTRICTS AND MATRIX
Sections:

17.03.010 Land Use Matrix.
A.   Any Use not specifically permitted or conditionally permitted in this Land Use Matrix is prohibited. Only the
     following Uses are allowed:
     1.     Uses indicated by the letter "P" below are Permitted Uses only where designated.
     2.     Uses indicated by the letter "C" are Conditional Uses only where designated.
B.   All Permitted Uses are subject to the general and specific standards, as applicable, contained in Section
     17.04, as well as the regulations of each particular zoning district where permitted.
C.   All Conditional Uses are subject to the general and specific standards, as applicable, contained in Section
     17.05, as well as the regulations of each particular zoning district.




                                                     Page 40 of 54
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   East Streetcar Nbhd. - State Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Crossing MPMU - 2100 S/State St.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Tracy Aviarys Jordan River Nature
    Land Use Categories




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Crossing MPMU - Anchor Tenant




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Crossing MPMU- Transit District




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        East Streetcar Nbhd. - 500 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Riverfront MPMU - Flex/Office




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Granite MPMU - Townhome




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         East Streetcar Nbhd. - North
                                                      Commercial Neighborhood




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Riverfront MPMU - School




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Granite Lofts Townhome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Riverfront MPMU - RM1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Granite MPMU - Library




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Downtown - Mixed-Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Downtown - Greenway
                                                                                                                                                           Historic and Landmark




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Riverfront MPMU - R1
                                Commercial Corridor




                                                                                Commercial General




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Downtown - Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Residential Multiple




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Townhome Overlay
                                                                                                     TOD and TOD-Core




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Downtown - Retail
                                                                                                                                    Business Park




                                                                                                                                                                                   Jordan River




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Open Space
                                                                                                                                                                                                           City Facility
                                                                                                                        Mixed Use




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Gateway




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gateway
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SSLC-PD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                  School




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Haven
                                                                                                                                                    Flex




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R1
         Adult Daycare          C                                                        C                   C              C
 Alcoholic Beverage, Banquet
                                P                                  P                      P                   P              P                        P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P                    P                      P                    P
          and Catering
    Alcoholic Beverage, Bar
                                C                                                                            C                                                                                                                                                                     C                                 C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C                     C                     C                     C
         Establishment
   Alcoholic Beverage, Beer
                                P                                  P                      P                   P              P                        P                                                                                                                             P                                 P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P                    P                      P                    P
          Recreational
   Alcoholic Beverage, Beer
                                                                                                                                                      C
           Wholesaler
   Alcoholic Beverage, Hotel    P                                  P                      P                   P              P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P                      P                    P                  P
  Alcoholic Beverage, Liquor
                                                                                                                                                      C
           Warehouse
   Alcoholic Beverage, Local
                                P                                  P                      P                   P              P             P          P               P                                                                                                             P                                 P                                 P                                P                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P                    P                      P                    P
    Industry Representative
      Alcoholic Beverage,
                                C                                                                            C                                        C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C                     C                     C                     C
         Manufacturer
    Alcoholic Beverage, Off-
                                P                                  P                      P                   P              P                        P                                                                                                                             P                                 P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P                    P                      P                    P
         Premises Beer
 Alcoholic Beverage, Package
                                P                                                         P                   P              P                        P                                                                                                                             P                                 P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P                    P                      P                    P
            Agency
Alcoholic Beverage, Reception
             Center
      Alcoholic Beverage,
                                P                                  P                      P                   P              P                        P                                                                                                                                                               P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P                    P                      P                    P                  P                                    P                              P
     Restaurant (Beer Only)
      Alcoholic Beverage,
                                P                                  P                      P                   P              P                        P                                                                                                                                                               P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P                    P                      P                    P                  P                                    P                              P
 Restaurant (Limited Service)
      Alcoholic Beverage,
                                P                                  P                      P                   P              P                        P                                                                                                                                                               P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P                    P                      P                    P                  P                                    P                              P
    Restaurant (Full Service)
  Alcoholic Beverage, Special
                                P                                                                             P                                       P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P                    P                      P                    P                  P                                    P                              P
       Use (Educational)
  Alcoholic Beverage, Special
              Use                                                                         P                                                           P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P                    P                      P                    P
  (Industrial/Manufacturing)
  Alcoholic Beverage, Special
                                P                                                         P                   P                                       P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P                    P                      P                    P
         Use (Scientific)
  Alcoholic Beverage, Special
                                P                                  P                      P                   P              P             P          P               P                                                                  P              P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P                    P                      P                    P                  P                                    P                              P
         Use (Religious)
  Alcoholic Beverage, Tavern    C                                                                            C                                                                                                                                                                     C                                 C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C                     C                     C                     C



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Page 41 of 54
  Alcoholic Beverage, State
                                C           C           C                                       C               C   C   C   C   C   C   C
         Liquor Store
  All-Terrain Vehicle (ATV),
    Motorcycle, Personal
                                P       P               P                                                               P   P
      Watercraft (PWC),
Snowmobile Sales and Service
     Amusement Device
 Animal Hospital/Veterinary
                                P       P   P   P       P                                       P           P   P   P   P   P
    Office (Small Animal)
  Animal Kennel/Day Care,
                                C       C   C   C       C
          Commercial
  Animal Kennel/Day Care,
                                                                                                                C   C   C   C   C   C   C
  Commercial (Indoor Only)
   Antenna, Lattice Tower                                   C       C       C
 Antenna Mounted on City-
                                P                       P       P       P   P
       Owned Structure
   Antenna, Roof-Mounted        P                       P       C       P   C   C   C
   Antenna, Wall-Mounted        P                       P       C       P   C   C   P
             Apiary                                             P               P
          Art Gallery           P   P   P   P   P       P   P           P                       P           P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
           Art Studio           P   P   P   P   P       P   P           P                       P           P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
    Assisted Living Facility    C   C       C   C                                   C                           C   C   C   C   C   C   C
ATM, Kiosk, Vending Machine
  (Self-Service, Interactive,   P   P   P   P   P   P   P               P                       P               P   P   P   P   P   P   P
           Outdoors)
        Auction House
 Auto, Light Truck, RV, Boat,
  Trailer Dealerships (Sale,    C       C               C
        Lease, or Rent)
         Auto Auction
      Auto Body Repair                                  P
   Automotive Restoration                               P
   Automotive Service and
                                                        P
             Repair
 Automotive Service Station
                                                        P
      (Non-Mechanical)
             Aviary
           Bail Bonds
     Bakery, Commercial                 P               P                                                       P   P   P   P
    Bakery Neighborhood         P   P   P   P   P                                               P       P       P   P   P   P   P   P   P
        BioTech/Biolife                                                                                         P   P   P   P
   Blood/Plasma Donation
                                P   P   P
            Center
         Bowling Alley          P       P   P   P                                                                   P   P   P   P
           Car Wash             C   C   C   C   C       C                                                                   C



                                                                                        Page 42 of 54
       Child Care Center        C   C   C   C   C   C                       C                           C                               C   C   C   C   C   C   C
          City Building                                                 P                                                       P
             City Park                                                  P   P
      Community Garden                                                  P   P
 Commercial Repair Services                             P                                                   P
 Convenience Store with Fuel
                                C   C   C   C   C       C                                                                                       C
              Pumps
          Cosmetology           P   P   P   P   P                                               P       P                           P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Crematory/Embalming Facility                            C
             Day Spa            C                                                               C                                           C   C   C
    Day Treatment Center                C
       Drive-Up Window          P   P   P   P   P   P   P                                       P
  Dry Cleaning/Laundromat       P   P   P   P   P       P                                       P                                   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
     Dwelling, Live/Work                                                                                                                                        P
    Dwelling, Multi-Family      C           C   C                                   C           C       C       C                   C   C   C   C   C   C   C
    Dwelling, Single-Family                                     P               P   P                               P
     Dwelling, Townhome                                                                         C       C               P   P                                   P
    Dwelling Unit, Internal
                                                                                P   P
            Accessory
    Dwelling Unit, External
                                                                                P   P
            Accessory
   Education, After School
                                C   C   C   C   C               C       C   P       C    C                          C                   C   C   C   C   C   C   C
            (Children)
  Education, Elementary or
                                                                    C
           Secondary
  Education, Higher (Public)                                        C
     Education, Preschool       C   C   C   C   C           C       C   P       C   C                                               C   C   C   C   C   C   C
     Education, Technical                                           C
          Employment
                                P       P   P   P       P                                                                           P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Agency/Temporary Staffing
       Equestrian Facility                                      C
Equipment Sales, Service, and
   Rental (Heavy and Farm)
         Escort Service
        Farmers Market          C   C   C   C   C           P           P   C                                                       C   C   C   C   C   C   C
      Financial Institution     P       P   P   P   P   P                                       P                                   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
         Fitness Center         P   P   P   P   P       P   P           P                       P           P                       P   P   P   P   P   P   P
   Food Truck/Food Trailer      P   P   P   P   P       P   P           P       P   P                                               P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Food Processing (Large-Scale)                           P
Food Processing (Small-Scale)   P   P   P   P   P   P   P                                                                           P   P   P   P
        Food Truck Park         P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P                                                                       P   P   P   P   P   P   P
   Funeral/Mortuary Home                C
  Grooming Services (Pets)      P   P   P   P   P       P                                                                           P   P   P   P   P   P   P
        Haunted House                                                   P
Home Occupation, Category I     P   P   P   P   P                               P   P           P       P       P   P   P   P       P   P   P   P   P   P   P


                                                                                        Page 43 of 54
Home Occupation, Category II    C   C       C   C                           C   C           C       C       C   C   C       C           C   C   C   C   C   C   C
      Homeless Shelter                                          C
 Horticulture/Produce Sales         C   C               C   C   C   P                                                                   C   C   C   C   C   C   C
     Hospital, Specialty        C           C                                                                                           C   C   C   C
             Hotel              C   C   C   C   C                                                                                       C   C   C   C   C   C   C
    Hotel, Extended-Stay
   Impound and Tow Lot
              Jail
 Juvenile Detention Facility
            Library                                                 P                                                   P
    Maintenance Facility,
       Vehicle/Transit
 Major Monopole exceeding
                                C                       C       C   C   C
     mix district Height
    Major Monopole not
                                P                       P       P   P   P
exceeding max district Height
  Manufactured Home Park
   Manufacturing, Major
   Manufacturing, Minor                 P               P                                               P
      Massage Therapy           C
 Minor Monopole exceeding
                                C                       C       C               C    C      C       C
     max district Height
    Minor Monopole not
                                                    P   P       P   P   P
exceeding max district Height
 Monopole w/ Structure >15
           ft. Wide
            Motel
 Movie Studio/Sound Stage                                           P
           Museum               P   P   P   P   P           P       P   C                                                               P   P   P   P   P   P   P
        Nature Center                                                                                                           P
 Non-Depository Institution
    Nursery, Commercial                 P               P       P
        Nursing Home                C       C   C                               C                                                       C   C   C   C   C   C   C
   Office, Medical, Dental,
                                P   P   P   P   P   P   P           P                       P           P                               P   P   P   P   P   P   P
         Health Care
     Office, Professional       P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P                       P       P   P                               P   P   P   P   P   P   P
        Park and Ride           C           C                                                                                           C
      Parking Structure         P   P   P   P   P       P           P           P                                                       P   P   P   P   P   P   P
         Pawn Shop
   Permanent Supportive
           Housing
          Pharmacy              C   C   C   C   C       C                                   C                                           C   C   C   C   C   C   C
      Place of Worship          C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C               C   C                                                       C   C   C   C   C   C   C
     Portable Container         P   P   P   P   P   P   P           P       P   P    P      P       P   P   P   P   P       P   P   P
        Poultry, Urban                                          P           P   P                               P


                                                                                    Page 44 of 54
   Precious Metal Recycling
      Printing, Large-Scale                 P       P   P                                                           P   P   P   P
       Protective Housing                   C
      Public Utility Facility   C   C   C   C   C   C   C       C   C   C                                           C   C   C   C   C   C   C
        Recording Studio                P
       Recreation Center        C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C       P   C                   C                       C   C   C   C   C   C   C
Recycling Collection/Drop-Off
             Facility
     Rehabilitation Center
           Restaurant           P   P   P   P   P                                           P       P               P   P   P   P   P   P   P
        Retail, Accessory       P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P                       P       P   P           P   P   P   P   P   P   P
         Retail, General        P   P   P   P   P   P   P           P                P      P           P           P   P   P   P
     Retail, Neighborhood       P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P                       P                       P   P   P   P   P   P   P
  Secondhand Merchandise
                                P   P       P   P
             Dealer
 Sexually Oriented Business                         C
       Short-Term Rental                                                    P   P                           P   P   P   P   P   P
    Slaughterhouse/Animal
           Processing
    Storage Facility, Indoor
                                C                                                                                   C   C   C   C
       climate controlled
   Storage Facility, Outdoor
 Storage Facility, Warehouse                            P           P                                   P
       Tattoo Shop/Parlor
         Temporary Use          C   C   C   C                                        C      C
  Theater, Live Performance     C           C                       P   P                                           P   P   P   P
         Theater, Movie         C                                                                                   P   P   P   P
   Tobacco Specialty Retail
     Transitional Care and
          Rehabilitation
      Transitional Housing
  Upholstery Shop/Tailoring
                                P   P   P   P   P       P                                                           P   P   P   P   P   P   P
              Shop




                                                                                    Page 45 of 54
                               Chapter 17.06 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Sections:



             ARTICLE II. PARKING, ACCESS, AND CIRCULATION REQUIREMENTS

17.06.160 Parking Stall requirements.
A.     Parking requirements for specific Uses. Off-Street parking shall be provided for Uses as indicated in the
       following matrix.
       1.    Uses Not Specifically Listed. Parking requirements for Permitted or Conditional Uses not specifically
             listed in the following matrix shall be provided in the same ratio as the Use most closely approximating
             the characteristics of the unlisted Use, as determined by the Community Development Director.
       2.    Employee parking for Uses with an employee component shall be determined using the maximum
             number of employees working on the largest shift.
       3.    Uses located in the Transit Oriented Development and Transit Oriented Development - Core district
             and Commercial Neighborhood district that have a bicycle parking requirement shall provide 1 bicycle
             parking space per every 15 vehicle Parking Stalls. This requirement supersedes those ratios established
             in the matrix below.
       4.    A traffic or parking study may be requested by the City for Uses that are over 10,000 square feet.
       5.    Matrix of Parking Requirements by Use. Uses are grouped into categories that have similar parking
             requirements. The following matrix indicates the required parking for Uses in the City:
                                             Parking Requirements by Use
     Land Use                              Number of Stalls Required                 Number of Public Bicycle Parking
                                                                                     Spaces Required
     Dwelling
     Dwelling Unit, Accessory              1 on-site parking space in addition       N/A
                                           to the requirements for a Single-
                                           Family Dwelling per ADU.
     Dwelling, Single-Family               2 stalls per Single-Family Dwelling       N/A
                                           Unit
     Dwelling, Multi-Family                TOD-C District: 1.2 stalls per unit       1 per 15 units for visitor and .25
                                           plus 0.5 stalls guest parking per         secure spaces per unit
                                           unit;.

                                           Downtown District: 1 stall per
                                           studio/one bedroom unit; 1.2 stalls
                                           per two/three bedroom unit;.

                                           East Streetcar District: 1.5 stalls per
                                           unit.

                                           All other districts: 1.5 stalls per
                                           studio or one-bedroom unit; 2
                                           stalls per two-bedroom unit; 2.5


                                                      Page 46 of 54
                                       stalls per three+ bedroom unit;
                                       plus 0.5 stalls guest parking per
                                       unit.

                                       One moving truck parking stall per
                                       100 units - required in all districts.
Dwelling, Townhome                     2 stalls per Dwelling Unit, in an         Space for bicycle storage within
                                       enclosed garage; .5 stalls guest          each Unit is required as well as
                                       parking per Dwelling Unit; 3 spaces       common area bicycle storage to
                                       per 1000 square feet of ground            accommodate one bicycle
                                       floor commercial space/workspace          attributable to each of 20% of the
                                       for Live/Work configuration               Project units
Short-Term Rental                      Primary Dwelling Unit Parking             N/A
                                       requirements plus 1 stall for every
                                       five (5) occupants allowed in the
                                       unit
Assisted Living Facility               .5 stalls per bedroom plus 1 stall        N/A
Nursing Home                           per employee
Homeless Shelter                       .25 stalls per bed plus 1 stall per       N/A
                                       employee
Retail Commercial
Auto Body Repair                       1 stall per employee, 1 stall per 200     N/A
Automotive Restoration                 square feet of office, and 1 stall per
Automotive Service and Repair          500 square feet of shop area
Automotive Service Station (Non-
Mechanical)
All-Terrain Vehicle (ATV),             1 stall for every 20 vehicles
Motorcycle, Personal Watercraft        displayed with a maximum of 15
(PWC), Snowmobile Sales and            stalls. A minimum of three
Service                                employee Parking Stalls provided.
Auto, Light Truck, RV, Boat, Trailer   Off-Street customer and employee
Dealership (Sale, Lease, or Rent)      Parking Stalls shall be identified.
Bakery, Neighborhood                   4 stalls per 1,000 square feet            1 per 20 stalls
Commercial Repair Services             Downtown District: 3 stalls per
Convenience Store with Fuel            1,000 for General Retail and
Pumps                                  Service; 2 stalls per 1,000 square
Farmers Market                         feet for Neighborhood Retail and
Horticulture / Produce Sales           Service.
Pharmacy
                                       All other districts: 4 stalls per 1,000
Retail, Accessory
                                       square feet.
Retail, General
Retail, Neighborhood
Secondhand Merchandise Dealer
Upholstery Shop / Tailoring Shop
Commercial Service / Office
Animal Hospital / Veterinary Office    4 stalls per 1,000 square feet; for       N/A
(Small Animal)                         data processing or telemarketing
Animal Kennel / Day Care,              Uses, 1 stall per employee
Commercial                             Downtown District: 3 stalls per
Biotech / Biolife                      1,000 for Civic, General Retail and



                                                  Page 47 of 54
Blood / Plasma Donation Center        Service, and Office; 2 stalls per
City Building                         1,000 square feet for
Commercial Repair Services            Neighborhood Retail and Service.
Cosmetology
Day Spa                                All other districts: 4 stalls per
Employment Agency / Temporary         1,000 square feet; 1 stall per
                                      employee for data processing or
Staffing
                                      telemarketing Uses.
Financial Institution
Grooming Services (Pet)
Library
Office, Professional
Printing, Large Scale
Sexually Oriented Business
Day Treatment Center                  4 stalls per 1,000 square feet          1 per 25 stalls
Massage Therapy
Medical, Dental, Health Care Office
Adult Daycare                         1 stall per 5 children, plus            N/A
Child Care Center                     unloading area
Car Wash                              1 stall per employee, 1 stall per 200   N/A
                                      square feet of office, and 3 stacked
                                      spaces per bay, and 5 stacked
                                      spaces for automated facility
Crematory / Embalming Facility        1 stall per 100 square feet of          N/A
Funeral / Mortuary Home               assembly area plus one per
                                      employee
Hotel                                 1 stall per unit plus 1 stall per 200   1 per 50 stalls
                                      square feet of office, meeting,
                                      assembly, conference, or banquet
                                      stall
Storage Facility, Indoor Climate      1 stall per employee, 3 stalls          1 per 50 stalls
Controlled                            located at the registration area
Temporary Use                         1 stall for every 3 patrons to the      N/A
                                      event
Equestrian Facility                   1 stall per 1,000 square feet           1 per 50 stalls
Laundromat
Arts / Recreation
Art Gallery                           2 stalls per 1,000 square feet          1 per 30 stalls
Art Studio
Bowling Alley
Museum
Nature Center
Fitness Center                        1 stall per 300 square feet; 1 stall    1 per 15 stalls; 1 per 25 stalls for
Recreation                            per 100 square feet for dance halls     dance halls
Recreation Center
Movie Studio / Sound Stage            4 stalls per 1,000 square feet          1 per 30 stalls
Theater, Live Performance             1 stall for every 3 seats
Theater, Movie
Restaurant




                                                Page 48 of 54
     Restaurant (fast-food)               1 stall per 100 square feet of Floor       1 per 20 stalls
                                          Area
     Restaurant (sit-down)                1 stall per 3 seats plus .50 stall per     1 per 15 stalls
                                          employee (outdoor dining seating
                                          shall not be counted towards the
                                          total number of seats)
     Food Truck Park                      3 stalls per food truck/food trailer       1 per 20 stalls
     Public Uses
     Hospital, Specialty                  1 stall per every 2 beds                   1 per 50 stalls
     Education, Preschool                 1 stall per teacher and staff, plus 1      1 per 25 stalls
                                          additional stall per every 2
                                          classrooms for elementary or
                                          middles schools or plus 1 additional
                                          stall for every 10 students for high
                                          schools
     Education, Elementary or
     Secondary
     Education, Higher (Public)           1 stall for every 3 seats
     Education, Technical
     Place of Worship                     1 stall for every 4 seats in the Place
                                          of Worship
     Alcoholic Beverage
     Alcoholic Beverage—Bar               3 stalls per 1,000 square feet             N/A
     Establishment
     Alcoholic Beverage—Tavern
     Alcoholic Beverage—Manufacturer      1 stall per employee                       1 per 50 stalls
     Alcoholic Beverage—Beer              1 stall per 1,000 square feet
     Wholesaler
     Alcoholic Beverage—Liquor
     Warehouse
     Industrial
     Bakery, Commercial                   1 stall per employee                       1 per 50 stalls
     Manufacturing
     Food Processing                      2 stalls per 1,000 square feet plus        N/A
                                          designated parking stall for all food
                                          trucks/food trailers
     Storage Facility, Warehouse          1 stall per 1,000 square feet              1 per 50 stalls


B.     Parking Stall Configuration. The minimum Parking Stall and Drive Aisle configurations are provided in the
       following table and illustration.
                                             Parking Stall Dimension Table *
            Angle of Parking          Stall Width      Stall Depth     Curb Length           Minimum       Minimum
                                                                       Per Vehicle             Drive         Drive
                                                                                            Aisle Width   Aisle Width
                                                                                            (One Way)     (Two Way)
       Parallel along the curb - 0       9 ft.            23 ft.            23 ft.             12 ft.        24 ft.
                 degree
                45 degree                9 ft.            18 ft.             9 ft.             15 ft.        24 ft.
                60 degree                9 ft.            18 ft.             9 ft.             18 ft.        24 ft.



                                                     Page 49 of 54
        90 degree                  9 ft.           18 ft.           9 ft.          24 ft.              24 ft.


       *Drive Aisle widths may be increased when required by the City Fire Marshal or City Engineer.




                                  Parking Structure Stall Dimension Table*
Angle of       Stall Width      Stall Depth         Aisle       Wall to Wall     Interlock       Overhang
Parking                                            Width          Module         Reduction       Allowance
                                                                   Width
  0                 22'-0"          8'-3"          12'-8"          29'-2"           0'-0"              2'-0"
  45                 8'-3"        16'-10"         14'-11"          48'-7"           2'-3"              2'-0"
  50                 8'-3"         17'-5"          15'-6"          50'-4"           2'-0"              2'-0"
  55                 8'-3"        17'-11"          16'-2"          52'-0"          1'-10"              2'-1"
  60                 8'-3"         18'-3"         16'-10"          53'-4"           1'-7"              2'-2"
  65                 8'-3"         18'-6"          17'-9"          54'-9"           1'-4"              2'-3"



                                              Page 50 of 54
       70              8'-3"           18'-7"           18'-7"         55'-9"            1'-1"           2'-4"
       75              8'-3"           18'-6"           20'-1"         57'-1"           0'-10"           2'-5"
       90              8'-3"           17'-6"          24'-10"         59'-10"           0'-0"           2'-6"

        0              22'-0"           8'-6"          11'-11"         28'-11"           0'-0"           2'-0"
       45               8'-6"         16'-10"           14'-2"         47'-10"           2'-3"           2'-0"
       50               8'-6"          17'-5"           14'-9"         49'-7"            2'-0"           2'-0"
       55               8'-6"         17'-11"           15'-5"         51'-3"           1'-10"           2'-1"
       60               8'-6"          18'-3"           16'-1"         52'-7"            1'-7"           2'-2"
       65               8'-6"          18'-6"           17'-0"         54'-0"            1'-4"           2'-3"
       70               8'-6"          18'-7"          17'-10"         55'-0"            1'-1"           2'-4"
       75               8'-6"          18'-6"           19'-4"         56'-4"           0'-10"           2'-5"
       90               8'-6"          17'-6"           24'-1"         59'-1"            0'-0"           2'-6"

        0              22'-0"           8'-9"          10'8"           28'-2"            0'-0"           2'-0"
       45               8'-9"         16'-10"          13'-5"          47'-1"            2'-3"           2'-0"
       50               8'-9"          17'-5"          14'-0"          48'-10"           2'-0"           2'-0"
       55               8'-9"         17'-11"          14'8"           50'-6"           1'-10"           2'-1"
       60               8'-9"          18'-3"          15'-4"          51'-10"           1'-7"           2'-2"
       65               8'-9"          18'-6"          16'-3"          53'-3"            1'-4"           2'-3"
       70               8'-9"          18'-7"          17'-1"          54'-3"            1'-1"           2'-4"
       75               8'-9"          18'-6"          18'-7"          55'-7"           0'-10"           2'-5"
       90               8'-9"          17'-6"          23'-4"          58'-4"            0'-0"           2'-6"

        0              22'-0"           9'-0"           9'-5"          27'-5"            0'-0"           2'-0"
       45               9'-0"         16'-10"           12'-6"         46'-4"            2'-3"           2'-0"
       50               9'-0"          17'-5"           13'-3"         48'-1"            2'-0"           2'-0"
       55               9'-0"         17'-11"          13'-11"         49'-9"           1'-10"           2'-1"
       60               9'-0"          18'-3"           14'-7"         51'-1"            1'-7"           2'-2"
       65               9'-0"          18'-6"           15'-6"         52'-6"            1'-4"           2'-3"
       70               9'-0"          18'-7"           16'-4"         53'-6"            1'-1"           2'-4"
       75               9'-0"          18'-6"          17'-10"         54'-10"          0'-10"           2'-5"
       90               9'-0"          17'-6"           22'-7"         57'-7"            0'-0"           2'-6"


            *Parking spaces located adjacent to walls or columns shall be one foot (1') wider to accommodate door
            opening clearance and vehicle maneuverability.
C.   Vehicle stacking capacity in drive-thru lanes. The following table shall be used when determining stacking
     capacity for the following drive-thru Uses:
                                     Vehicle Stacking Capacity in Drive-Thru Lanes
                             Use                                  Minimum Stack              Measured From
             Automated teller machine (ATM)                        3 per machine             Teller machine
                          Car Wash                                    3 per lane            Wash bay entrance
                         Dry cleaner                                  2 per lane            Drive-up Window
            Financial Institution with teller lane                    3 per lane            Teller or Drive-up
                                                                                                 Window
                        Pharmacy                                    3 per lane              Drive-up Window
                Restaurant with drive-thru*                         5 per lane                  Order box



                                                   Page 51 of 54
          *More stacking may be required by the City Engineer, subject to a queue analysis completed by a
          licensed Professional Engineer with a background in transportation engineering or related field based
          on peak hour traffic.
D.   Parking Reduction Plan. The land use authority may approve a modification in the number of off-Street
     Parking Stalls required for a Development in accordance with the ratios established in this Section. This
     section may not be applied in a Townhome Overlay District.
     1.   Residential Parking:
          a.      The Applicant must submit evidence that the proposed Development meets one (1) of the
                  following below.
                  i.     Located in Transit Oriented Development - Core (TOD-Core), Downtown, or East Streetcar
                         district; or
                  ii.    Located within a quarter (1/4) mile of a TRAX or Streetcar station.
          b       All Developments must submit a parking and traffic study performed by a licensed Professional
                  Engineer with a background in transportation engineering or related field. In addition, the
                  Development shall submit a detailed description of the proposed, anticipated parking demand,
                  proposed circulation plan, and describe any unique circumstances that would otherwise reduce
                  the parking requirement.
          c.      All documentation shall be submitted to the Community Development Department and must
                  comply with all applicable standards contained in this Chapter with the following exceptions:
                  i.     The standard requirement for residential parking in the district where the development is
                         located.
                  ii.    The land use authority may consider increases or reductions to standards outlined in the
                         accompanying table. The maximum decrease from any standard parking rate for a
                         Residential Use shall be twenty percent (20%) or 1:1 stall per unit ratio.
                  iii.   Dedicated visitor parking. Developers shall clearly indicate the location of dedicated visitor
                         parking through directional signage, marked stalls, or other means to be determined in Site
                         Plan review.
          d.      The following table provides all eligible parking rate reductions available for Developments that
                  meet the requirements in 17.06.160(D):
                                           Eligible Parking Rate Reductions
                                     Amenity                                           Recommended Reduction
                                                                                            (Stalls/Unit)
                        Car share (limit 1 car/100 units)                                       0.05
                       Unbundled parking (100% of units)                                         0.1
                                   Bike share                                                   0.05
                              Bike lockers/storage                                              0.05
              Development supplied transit passes to 100% of units                              0.15
                                 Senior housing                                                  0.2
                   Student housing (< .25 miles from campus)                                     0.1


     2.   Commercial Parking.
          a.      Commercial Use transit-oriented Developments may receive up to a twenty percent (20%)
                  reduction in parking when located within the Transit Oriented Development-Core, Downtown,



                                                     Page 52 of 54
                  and East Streetcar districts. A Development must comply with at least two (2) additional
                  requirements below to qualify for the parking reductions:
                  i.       Shared Parking. The Development consists of two (2) or more land Uses that have different
                           parking patterns and peak parking demand hours. Regulations for Shared Parking can be
                           followed as found in Subsection (G) of this Section except for the following additional
                           provisions:
                                a)     In Mixed-Use Developments, no one Use may consist of less than 20% of the
                                       Building square footage; and
                                b)     Mixed-Use Buildings must be comprised of at least 50% Residential Use.
                  ii.      Transit passes are provided to 100% of employees at the Development.
                  iii.     Provisions are made for long-term bicycle storage for residential tenants or business
                           employees. Long-term storage shall consist of facilities such as lockers, indoor Parking
                           Areas, or other secure areas designated for parking.
                  iv.      Alternative proposals approved by the land use authority that will encourage and provide
                           for increased transit ridership.
E.   Manufacturing and Storage Warehouse Uses may receive up to a twenty percent (20%) reduction in parking
     when located within the Flex District. The applicant shall provide documentation supporting the proposed
     reduction. The parking reduction is at the discretion of the City Engineer based on the following standards.
     a.     All Developments must submit a parking and traffic study performed by a licensed transportation
            engineer or related field. In addition, the Development shall submit a detailed description of the
            proposed Use (include the square footage), hours of operation, anticipated parking demand, proposed
            circulation plan, and describe any unique circumstances that would otherwise reduce the parking
            requirement.
     b.     Any Change of Use, expansion of use (employees, Use, Development), or transfer of property
            ownership would require the property owner to resubmit for consideration of any approved parking
            reduction.
F.   Excessive parking. Commercial Developments shall not have parking in excess of that required by this
     Chapter, without prior written approval of the land use authority. If more Parking Stalls are requested,
     written justification of the specific need for more Parking Stalls than the provisions of this Chapter allow may
     be required. The land use authority may require a parking and/or traffic impact analysis by a licensed
     Professional Engineer with a background in transportation engineering or related field when the request
     exceeds 20 stalls or an increase of ten percent (10%).
G.   Shared Parking. Flexibility through Shared Parking may be allowed when two (2) or more Uses within the
     same Project, with access to the same Parking Stalls, have different parking patterns and peak parking
     demand hours. These Uses shall be able to use the off-Street Parking Stalls that are on the same Parcel or
     within the condominium plat throughout the day to reduce the total demand for Parking Stalls. The following
     schedule of Shared Parking is provided to indicate how Shared Parking for certain Uses might be used to
     reduce the total parking required. This provision does not apply to Townhome Developments.
                                               Schedule of Shared Parking
          General Use                            Weekday                                      Weekend 1
          Classification             Midnight— 7:00 a.m.— 6:00 p.m.— Midnight—                7:00 a.m.—    6:00 p.m.—
                                     7:00 a.m.   6:00 p.m.    Midnight    7:00 a.m.            6:00 p.m.     Midnight
         Residential                   100%         50%          80%        100%                  75%          75%
            Office                      5%         100%          20%         5%                   20%          10%
     Retail/Commercial2                 5%          80%         100%         5%                  100%          90%
            Hotel                      100%         65%         100%        100%                  65%          100%



                                                       Page 53 of 54
          Light industrial                        10%                100%                 10%                  10%        50%    10%
          Entertainment3                          10%                50%                  100%                 10%        50%    100%
         Places of worship                        5%                 30%                  50%                  5%         100%   75%
        Community centers                         5%                 75%                  85%                  5%         100%   100%


1. For Shared Parking purposes weekend shall begin on Friday at 6:00 p.m.

2. Provision shall be made between shared Uses for typical design day for commercial Uses to ensure sufficient parking.

3. Percentage of Shared Parking reduction for entertainment Uses may be increased by the land use authority
depending on the intensity of the Use and Compatibility with Shared Parking uses.
        1.      To qualify for approval of Shared Parking, Applications shall contain the following:
                a.      Proof that all uses subject to the Shared Parking Application are within the same Project;
                b.      Location and identity of each Use that will share the Parking Area;
                c.      Total parking requirement for each Use;
                d.      The projected hours of operation of each Use and the hours during which the peak parking
                        demand will be experienced;
                e.      The number of proposed Parking Stalls;
                f.      A Site Plan showing that the furthest Parking Stall is no greater than 300 feet from the nearest
                        entrance of each Use intended to share the parking;
                g.      A Site Plan showing that the proposed Shared Parking Area will comply with all standards
                        required by this Chapter for Parking Area Development;
                h.      A Pedestrian circulation plan that shows connections and walkways between Parking Areas and
                        land Uses; and
                i.      No one single Use may be less than ten percent (10%) of the overall Building square footage.
        2.      Other Uses. If one or more of the land Uses intended to share parking facilities does not conform to the
                general land use classifications in the Shared Parking matrix, an Applicant may submit data to specify
                the principal operating hours of the uses. The land use authority may also take this information into
                account in determining the appropriate Shared Parking accommodation, if any, for such Uses.
        3.      Shared Parking Among Lots Under Different Ownership. When a Shared Parking reduction is to be
                applied to Uses on several Lots under different ownership, the following shall be provided:
                a.      A plan that provides for deed restrictions to ensure the parking and uses cannot be separated
                        without a change in occupancy and a deed release from the City;
                b.      Recorded easements that provide, at a minimum, for:
                         i.      Cross-access for both vehicles and pedestrians among the Parking Areas and connections;
                         ii.     Allocation of maintenance responsibilities;
                c.      Parking for all Uses shall be located within 300 feet from the nearest entrance of each Use
                        intended to share the parking.
                d.      Shared Parking among Lots under different ownership may be approved by the land use
                        authority following submittal of a parking Development plan Application and compliance with the
                        provisions detailed above.




                                                                         Page 54 of 54
                                     CITY COUNCIL STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE:                 March 12, 2025
PROJECT NUMBERS:              OA25-0001
RECOMMENDATION:               Approve changes to multiple sections of Title 4 and Title 17 of the South Salt Lake
                              Municipal Code to correct technical errors, add general regulations for Short-Term
                              Rentals, and update related definitions.
APPLICANT:                    South Salt Lake
TYPE OF ITEM:                 Legislative – Ordinance Amendment

SYNOPSIS:
Based on the direction staff received during three City Council Work Meetings, held on 9/13/23, 6/5/24, and
11/13/24, and the Planning Commission meeting and Public Hearing on February 20, 2025, staff recommends
adding certain regulations for Short-Term Rentals (“STR”) to the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code (the
“Code”), including requirements for hosts in the R1 and MPMU Districts to be located within 30 miles of South
Salt Lake boundaries, STR caps both city-wide (200) and per block (2), limitations on maximum occupancy (10),
and minimum on-site parking requirements (1/5 occupants). The proposed ordinance amendment includes
adding STRs to Title 17 as well as correcting technical errors within Title 4 to increase clarity and eliminate
inconsistencies within the ordinance.

Staff have provided a summary and analysis of the proposed amendments below. For the full amendment to
Title 4, please see the attachments provided herein that include the full-redlined proposed amendment to the
ordinance.

PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION:
On February 20, 2025, the Planning Commission held a Public Hearing regarding this item.

The Planning Commission is the recommending body for amendments to Land Use Ordinances and the City
Council is the Land Use Authority for amendments to Land Use Ordinances. The Planning Commission was also
asked to consider alternative or modified recommendations that were based on the feedback received after
the Public Notice was posted. The alternatives included:
    • There is a 30 to 60 day grace period for unlicensed hosts to vest an application for a STR business
       license before the STR Ordinance goes into effect;
    • The property owner lives within 45 minutes of the property and is not limited to being a resident of
       South Salt Lake for the resident restrictions in R1 and MPMU Districts;
    • Change the location of the nameplate sign to a less conspicuous place on the property;
    • Look at putting a cap on the number of STRs in the City similar to other municipalities like Millcreek or
       Sandy; and
    • Grandfathering for the existing, licensed STRs.

There were 21 public comments. Most, were in support of adding standards and of “grandfathering” or
allowing existing licensed STRs to continue their Use, no matter if they are SSL residents or not. The comments
were from a mix of residents who live next to STRs and owners of STRs. The overarching theme of residents’
testimonials is that STRs negatively affect their quality of life through noise, lack of maintenance, and parking
impacts. There were also questions wondering why we did not have any neighborhood caps proposed.

The overarching theme of the STR owner’s was that the licensed hosts, should be grandfathered in and the new
standards should not apply to them, because they have, “gone about it the right way” from the start. The
licensed STR hosts believed they are different from the estimated one-hundred and fifty unlicensed STRs in the
city, who have not come into get a business license. These arguments were compelling to both the Planning

                                                       1
Commission and staff in that the demonstrated quality properties that align with purpose statements of the R1
and demonstrated financial and intellectual investment and commitment in SSL.

RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommends the City Council to approve changes to multiple sections of Title 4 and Title 17 of the South
Salt Lake Municipal Code to correct technical errors, add general regulations for Short-Term Rentals, and
update related definitions.

BACKGROUND:
The growth of the STR market has precipitated a host of neighborhood challenges, including noise complaints,
late-night parties, disruptive guests, parking, and trash issues, all of which disturb the quality of life for the
residents. Furthermore, the replacement of long-term community members and families with short-term renters
erodes the feeling of “community”, and diminishes alternatives for home ownership, where the cost of home
sales has increased through competition driven by investment and business purposes. A FlashVote survey was
conducted on STRs by city staff to gather statistically valid community input, a summary of the results is below:

When provided with a list of statements on STRs (select all that apply), residents responded:
  • 59% said they believe STRs should be subject to reasonable regulations on occupancy, parking, noise,
      etc.
  • 42% said STRs do not have significant negative impacts on my quality of life in South Salt Lake.
  • 35% said STRs have a negative impact on the affordability and availability of long-term housing in South
      Salt Lake.
When asked if SSL should regulate STRs and how (select up to three statements), residents responded:
  • 38% said STRs should be required to get a permit from the City.
  • 33% said to restrict the total number of STR permits in the City.
  • 51% said to cap the number of nuisance violations an STR owner is allowed to receive before their
      permit is revoked.

Sample of resident comments:
   • "STRs should meet the same safety standards that hotels, motels, and rentals should have to meet."
   • "Prohibit businesses/corporations from renting homes."
   • "STRs rob the good neighbor feel and community feel we used to have when neighbors knew each
      other."
   • "SSL is small and doesn’t have much available housing. STRs are a blight on our community and should
      be fully banned."
   • “Honestly not bothered by STR as much as I am the noise that comes from State Street and loud cars
      sitting on streets and parking lots late at night.”
   • “I have no complaints about STR's. The renters and owners in my neighborhood have been great! I see
      no reason for the city to get involved”

The City Council has held three work meetings on STRs. Some of the key takeaways from Council, where they:

   •   September 13, 2023:
          o Found STRs disruptive to neighbors and quality of life, and didn’t like commercial activity in the
               R1
          o Wanted more information on the Utah Code including regulations for enforcement and any
               limitation on creating local ordinances
          o Wanted to consider if a Good Landlord program could educate and reduce host license costs
          o Wanted to ensure hosts have a business license and that SSL is getting sales and lodging taxes
          o Wanted to explore using a software company to identify internet listings (know basic data of
               how many STRs and how many are licensed)
          o Wanted to better understand the idea of non-conformance (grandfathering) for hosts that
               currently have a business license
          o Wanted occupancy limits and minimum on-site parking requirements.
   •   June 5, 2024:
                                                        2
            oSought owner occupancy requirements for hosts to live in South Salt Lake or Salt Lake County
             – they concurrently contemplated proximate property management/ responsible agent
             requirements as an alternative
           o On-Site parking requirements
           o Were ok to wait on formal software procurement to identify internet listings based on access to
             informal data reporting
           o Agreed health, safety and welfare standards were critical
           o Wanted to consider limiting corporate ownership
   •    November 11, 2024, Supported:
           o STRs in the Downtown and RM Zones
           o STRs in the R1 if owner occupied or hosted by a SSL resident
           o Not allowing STRs in an ADU
           o Not allowing more than one STR on one lot/parcel
           o Allowing STR to continue as non-conforming use, but with the requirement to meet new
             standards including any new ownership requirements starting in 2026
           o The new business license fee, and not applying a Good Landlord program
           o Occupancy caps and on-site parking requirements
           o Health safety and welfare standards, inspections, etc.

ANALYSIS:
Based on information gathered from a software provider for state and local governments that can identify
properties listed for rent, we believe there are approximately 200 STR listings in SSL. We currently have 45-
licensed STRs, including 14 new licensees over the past several months because of concerted research on
transient room tax and contacting owners individually by our Business License Official. The current business
license fee is $169 + 7/unit. The local transient room and sales tax revenue is estimated at $169.92 per unit (if
those units are assumed to be rented 1/3 of the time at an average rate of $118/per night), which is consistent
with the information provided by our software company. Based upon these rates, the forgone annual revenue
to the City from the unlicensed rentals would be approximately $56,000.

We’ve also gathered information related to the residency location of those license holders and whether they
are corporations or not, as identified in the chart below:

Of importance, of the 45 currently licensed STR, 22 hosts live in SSL, while 23 do not, including 13 that live in
the County and another 10 that live outside the County:

    South Salt Lake                                       Host lives elsewhere   Host address elsewhere
       Rentals              Total #   Host lives in SSL       in SL County             in Utah or US      Host is LLC


 STR currently licensed       45       22        49%         13        29%           10        22%        18      40%
  Currently licensed all
other (long-term) rentals    918       182       20%        527        57%          209        23%        441     48%
 Suspected, unlicensed
   rentals (all types)       169       20        12%         99        59%           50        29%        58      34%


We’ve also researched how regional municipalities are handling this issue (Attachment 3), including:

Millcreek:
    • Limits STRs to owner occupied primary residence
    • Limits total number of STRs
    • Requires 400’ of separation from another STRs

Murray – Requires owner occupied and host be present during stay.

ANALYSIS:

                                                            3
Zoning Analysis – The following matrix summarizes the important issues the Council discussed and
subsequent recommendations from staff:

         Current Ordinance - Land Use Matrix*               Proposed Ordinance - Land Use Matrix*
                 Allowed with                                       Allowed with
                      SSL                 Not                           SSL                   Not
     Zone         Ownership Allowed allowed              Zone        Ownership Allowed allowed
     R1                             x                    R1              x
     MPMU                           x                    MPMU            x
     DT                             x                    DT                          x
     TOD                                    x            TOD                                    x
     TH Overlay                             x            TH Overlay                             x
     * all STRs need a business license




R1 = Single Family (yellow)
DT = Downtown (purple at the top, between 2100 south to I80/ I15 east to State)
MPMU = Master Planned Mixed Use (brown at southwest corner)
                                                     4
RM = Residential Multiple (orange below MPMU and between 3300 S & 3900 S between State St. and R1
(yellow)



 SUMMARY OF ORDINANCE AMENDMENT:
A summary of the proposed Code amendments is below. For the full, proposed amendment to Title 4 and Title
17, see the attachments provided herein that include a full-redlined ordinance.

 CODE SECTIONS                HIGHLIGHT OF CHANGES
 Amending Title 4             General Clean Up
 Housing                       ✔ Capitalize all defined terms throughout the entire Title.
 Amending Title 4.04.020       ✔ Move the definitions from 4.32 the Housing Discrimination section, up
 Definitions                      to the main definition section for the entire Title. These definitions
                                  include
                                    o City, City Attorney, Community Development Director,
                                        Complainant, Conciliation, Conciliation agreement, Discrimination,
                                        Gender identity, Housing administrator, Mayor, Real estate broker
                                        or salesperson, Religious organization, Rent, Residential real estate
                                        transaction, Respondent, Sexual orientation, and Unlawful practice.
                               ✔ Repeal and replace the Short-Term Rental definition
                                    o As predicated in the Utah Code, “Short-Term Rental (STR)" means a
                                        residential unit or any portion of a residential unit that the Owner of
                                        record or the lessee of the residential unit offers for occupancy for
                                        fewer than 30 consecutive days and is: an Owner-Occupied Duplex;
                                        an Owner-Occupied Rental Property; or in a property owned by a
                                        Primary Resident who resides in South Salt Lake.
                               ✔ Add a definition for the following terms:
                                    o Dwelling,
                                    o Primary Dwelling
                                    o Engage in Business / Engaged in the Business
                                    o Owner-Occupied
                                    o Person
                                    o Primary Resident/Residence
                                    o Responsible Person


 Adding Title 4.05            Chapter 4.05 - Short-Term Rentals
 Short-Term Rentals            ✔ R1 and MPMU Restrictions
                                    o STRs are prohibited in the R1 and MPMU Districts, unless they are
                                        Owner-Occupied or owned and operated by a Person whose Primary
                                        Residence is located within 30 miles of the STR. STRs in the R1 and
                                        MPMU Districts shall be contained within or attached (share a wall)
                                        to the Primary Dwelling. STRs are prohibited in any Accessory
                                        Dwelling Unit (ADU).
                               ✔ License Requirements - All STRs shall have a business license before
                                  they can operate. At application they must submit the following:
                                    o The name, mailing address, and telephone number of the Property
                                        Owner, and applicant;
                                    o The property description;
                                    o A site plan/drawing of the proposed STR showing the location of the
                                        off-street parking;
                                    o The number of bedrooms available to rent;
                                    o The number of Persons the STR will accommodate;
                                    o A FEIN number or tax account number;
                                                      5
     o  The name and telephone number of the property Owner or Owner’s
        agent who is available by telephone 24 hours a day, 7 days a week,
        and is within 30 minutes of the site;
    o Such other information as the Business License Official determines
        may be needed to assist in issuing the permit or license;
    o A signed declaration on a form provided by the City identifying the
        requirement of an STR license that the applicant is currently in
        compliance with all legal requirements regarding STRs, has paid all
        applicable taxes, fees and other charges regarding STRs, and agrees
        to continually comply with all requirements regarding STRs;
    o For STRs in the R1 and MPMU Districts, a signed affidavit sworn
        before a notary public shall be provided by the Owner stating that
        the proposed property is the Owner’s Primary Residence, and the
        Owner will remain as the primary occupant of the home for at least
        183 days per calendar year. The Owner shall also provide at least
        two documents as proof of Primary Residency. The documents shall
        show the applicant’s name and the address of the property for which
        an STR license is being applied.
✔ Inspection for Compliance and Business License Renewals
    o Prior to the issuance of the STR business license, the Building
        Department and Fire Marshal shall conduct an inspection;
    o After the STR business license has been issued, as part of the annual
        renewal - the Business License Official, Building Official, or Fire
        Marshal may inspect to ensure compliance.
    o As part of the annual renewal the applicant shall resubmit and
        affidavit acknowledging ownership requirements as applicable in the
        R1.
    o As part of the annual renewal the applicant shall resubmit and
        affidavit acknowledging, they have completed the Home Fire
        Inspection Report.
    o Upon receiving a complaint, and based on physical inspection of the
        property, if the occupancy requirements are exceeded, a red tag
        may be issued.
✔ Occupancy Requirements
    o The maximum Renter occupancy of an STR shall be no more than;
             ▪ Two adults per bedroom, or
             ▪ Eight (8) related adults, or
             ▪ Four (4) unrelated adults, or
             ▪ Ten (10) total Persons;
             ▪ This maximum occupancy shall not include the Owner or
                 Persons related to the Owner.
             ▪ The business license shall state maximum occupancy
                 allowed.
             ▪ Any internet or other advertising shall state maximum
                 occupancy allowed.
    o The property shall not be rented to more than one Renter at any
        given time, and the Owner shall not divide and Rent out portions of
        the Dwelling to multiple Renters at the same time.
✔ Maintenance, Structure and Grounds, Other Requirements and
  Limitations
    o An STR shall be maintained to the following standards:
             ▪ Periodic, exterior maintenance service of the house,
                 property, grounds and adjacent areas including driveways
                 and sidewalks shall be provided by the Owner, including


                     6
                removal of trash, leaves and snow, and other materials on at
                least a weekly basis.
           ▪ The Owner shall ensure that Renters adhere to County noise
                regulations enforced by local law enforcement agencies.
           ▪ STRs may not be used for any of the following:
                     ● Commercial purposes not otherwise permitted in the
                         zone, including hosting parties;
                     ● Distribution of retail products or personal services to
                         invitees for marketing or similar purposes; or
                     ● The outdoor display of goods and merchandise for
                         sale.
           ▪ Required off-street parking areas and access to parking areas
                shall be maintained and available for use at all times. Parking
                for this use shall be incremental to the requirements for the
                Primary Dwelling and include a minimum of one off-street
                parking spaces for each five (5) occupants allowed.
           ▪ Any STR in South Salt Lake City shall include a statement on
                any online advertisement for the STR unit that notes that they
                are a legal STR in the City and includes their business license
                number and occupancy limit. Any short-term rental in South
                Salt Lake City operating without a business license number
                included within its online advertisement is operating illegally.
   o The access to the STR unit and the layout of the STR shall be
       designed so that noise, light, and occupants from the STR unit are
       not likely to be a substantial intrusion on adjacent properties.
   o Responsible Party.
           ▪ The resident Owner is personally liable for failure to manage
                the STR properly.
           ▪ The resident Owner or Owner's agent must be available by
                telephone, or otherwise, twenty-four hours per day and must
                be able to respond in-person to the site to inquiries within
                thirty minutes of receipt of an inquiry.
   o The licensee must have a sales tax collection and sales tax
       accounting number for the rental operation and the sales tax number
       must be included on the STR Business License application. All
       applicable taxes, charges and fees, including the transient room tax,
       must be paid in full during the period of licensure.
   o Only one STR business license shall be issued per property.
✔ Noticing and Posting Requirements
   o One nameplate sign shall be permanently attached on the exterior
       of the building or in a conspicuous location on the site at time of
       business license inspection. The nameplate sign shall provide:
           ▪ The contact information for the Owner or Owner’s agent
           ▪ The occupant load allowed by the City,
           ▪ The business license number and the maximum occupancy.
   o The City issued STR business license shall be posted on the interior
       of the building in a conspicuous location near the main entrance of
       the STR at time of business license inspection with the following
       information.
           ▪ Parking requirements and location of off-site parking spaces
           ▪ County noise regulations
           ▪ Garbage pick-up dates
           ▪ South Salt Lake business license number
           ▪ Maximum allowed occupancy
           ▪ Name and contact information of the registered agent
                      7
                                                 ▪  Contact information for the South Salt Lake City Police and
                                                    Fire Departments
                                  ✔ Hosting Platform Responsibilities
                                       o They must disclose to the City on a semiannual basis each listing in
                                           the City.
                                  ✔ Violations
                                       o Each day a violation occurs, is deemed a separate violation.
                                  ✔ Caps
                                       o Total is capped at 200 in the City.
                                       o Total is capped at no more than 2 per city block.
                                  ✔ Exceptions
                                       o STRs that has SSL Business Licenses before February 14, 2025 can
                                           continue to operate as is, and do not need to comply with the current
                                           standards. They do need to meet the health, safety and welfare
                                           standards.
                                       o Once the property ownership transfers all standards shall be met.
 Amending 4.32                   General Clean Up
 Housing Discrimination           ✔ Removing the definitions section and combining it with 4.04.020, which is
                                     the main definitions section for Title 4.
                                  ✔ Amending the section numbers
 Title 17.01                     General Clean Up
 Definitions                      ✔ Amend the Short-Term Rental definition so it is consistent with the new
                                     definition in Title 4.
 Title 17.03                     General Clean Up
 Land-Use Districts and           ✔ Add Short-Term Rental to the following Land Use Districts as a Permitted
 Matrix                              Use.
                                       o R1
                                       o Residential Multiple (RM)
                                       o MPMU
                                       o Downtown


 PUBLIC NOTICING:

17.11.070. Public Notices.

        B. Mailed Notices. Notice shall be provided by first class mail to property Owners and affected
        entities as established below:

                5. Ordinance and General Plan Amendments. Notice shall be given according to state
                statute.

In an effort to be as transparent, informative and inviting to the process as possible, Staff provided notice to this
public hearing by sending the below attached postcards to over 5,000 Affected entities, not limited to property
owners in the R1, Residential Multiple, MPMU, Downtown districts and licensed short and long-term rentals on
January 3, 2025. The intent was to solicit as much feedback as possible, and to allow unlicensed hosts to become
licensed and licensed hosts not living in South Salt Lake to plan appropriately, while not artificially disrupting pre-
bookings or annual budgets.




                                                          8
 STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommends the City Council for the ordinance amending multiple sections of Title 4 and Title 17 of the
South Salt Lake City Municipal Code to correct technical errors, to add general considerations for Short-Term
Rentals, and to add and update some definitions.

 GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS:
Housing – Strategy #4: Encourage the preservation of existing housing through city-supported initiatives.

       Analysis: This will help increase the housing stock in the City, by limiting where an STR can be in the
       City. Some of the existing STRs that are in the Land Use Districts, where the STRs will be prohibited, can
       be converted into long-term rentals, which will benefit the City.

 PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:

17.11.010. Establishment and Duties of Planning Commission.

   K. Responsibilities.

       A. The Planning Commission makes recommendations to the City Council for:
             a. The general plan and amendments to the general plan;
             b. The Land Use Map, and amendments to the Land Use Map;
             c. Amendments to land use ordinances;
             d. Proposed Application processes and the delegation of power under the land use ordinance.


 PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW:
Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-502. Preparation and adoption of land use regulation states:
      1. Planning Commission shall:
              a. provide notice as required by Subsection 10-9a-205(1)(a) and, if applicable, Subsection 10-9a-
                 205(4);
              b. hold a public hearing on a proposed land use regulation;


                                                       9
                c. if applicable, consider each written objection filed in accordance with Subsection 10-9a-
                    205(4) prior to the public hearing; and
                d. review and recommend to the legislative body a proposed land use regulation that
                    represents the planning commission's recommendation for regulating the use and
                    development of land within all or any part of the area of the municipality; and forward to the
                    legislative body all objections filed in accordance with Subsection 10-9a-205(4).

  CITY COUNCIL OPTIONS:


Option 1: Approval

   Move to approve all or only portions of the ordinance amending multiple sections of Title 3, Title 4, and Title
   17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code to correct technical errors, to add general considerations for
   Short-Term Rentals, and to add and update some definitions.

Option 2: Denial

   Move to deny all or only portions of the ordinance amending multiple sections of Title 4 and Title 17 of the
   South Salt Lake City Municipal Code to correct technical errors, to add general considerations for Short-Term
   Rentals, and to add and update some definitions.



Option 3: Continuance

   Move to table all or only portions of the ordinance amending multiple sections of Title 4 and Title 17 of the
   South Salt Lake City Municipal Code to correct technical errors, to add general considerations for Short-Term
   Rentals, and to add and update some definitions.

 Attachments:

   1. Redlined Ordinance Amendment
   2. Public Comments / Presentations Received via Email
   3. Regional STR Current Affairs




                                                        10
                                                                              Eliza Ungricht <eungricht@sslc.gov>



South Salt Lake Proposed STR Regulations
2 messages

Emmanuelle Chandler                                                                     Tue, Jan 7, 2025 at 2:08 PM
To: planning@sslc.gov

 Dear Planning Council Members,


 I am writing to express my concern regarding the proposed short-term rental (STR) legislation in South Salt
 Lake. My name is Emmanuelle and I own and manage one STR in South Salt Lake. My husband and I
 purchased the home in late 2024 and legally operate the STR with a city-approved business license. I
 understand that the city’s intention is to keep the spirit of South Salt Lake alive with caring local citizens,
 provide safe and affordable housing, and stimulate the local economy. However, creating this prosperous
 environment does not have to come at the expense of the STR community – at least to the extent that is
 being proposed. I recognize that a balance must be achieved and with that, I share my concerns and
 solutions below:
         · Requiring STR owners to reside in South Salt Lake – this is of greatest concern as it directly
         affects out of state homeowners such as myself. In fact, it penalizes those of us who went through
         the proper channels to obtain a business license and legally operate a STR.
                 o My husband and I made a major decision to invest in South Salt Lake – we have been
                 visiting the area for many years and not only purchased a home, but spent significant money
                 to renovate it. This home purchase and renovation increases our property taxes, which
                 directly benefits the city and the state. By excluding out of state owners, you are removing a
                 pool of hardworking people who are not only beautifying neighborhoods, but directly
                 contributing to the local economy. When we purchased this home, we made a promise to be
                 dutiful owners who operate a safe, friendly STR. We have upheld this promise and hope the
                 city will return the promise it made to us when it granted us the business license.
                 o In addition to the economic impact we provide through our property taxes, we also
                 contribute to the local economy every day. We employ local cleaners, handymen, hot tub
                 service technicians, landscapers, and more. Additionally, our guests visit local restaurants
                 and shops, which helps to support local businesses. As you can see, an STR directly
                 contributes to the local economy in many ways.
                 o We care deeply about our home and neighborhood. The STR market is incredibly
                 competitive and just one bad review can terribly affect our business. Accordingly, we ensure
                 that our guests are properly screened, our lawn is clean, and the home is orderly.
                 o Lastly, there is legal precedent against the proposition that would require owners to reside
                 in South Salt Lake. In this article, you can see that the city of New Orleans in 2019 passed a
                 law restricting licenses for STRs to city residents and excluding out of state owners. In 2022,
                 the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the provision unconstitutionally restricts
                 interstate commerce. With similarly worded language in the new STR provision in South Salt
                 Lake, the U.S. Court of Appeals would very likely rule again against the city and in favor of
                 out of state owners.
                 o SOLUTIONS:
                          § grandfather existing, licensed out state owners
                          § require a local contact to ensure orderly guest conduct and home maintenance
                          and/or
                          § institute a cap for out of state owners, thereby limiting the number who may obtain
                          an STR license

         · If the goal is to ensure that all licensed STRs are licensed, we are currently discussing the state
         of 40 units, which represents a tiny fraction of the overall housing supply.
                o While the number of housing units in South Salt Lake is not publicly available, U.S. Census
                data states that between 2019-2023, there were 10,707 households. If we divide the 40
                licensed STRs by the 10,707 households, it shows we are discussing the state of 0.37% of
               households in South Salt Lake. While I completely agree with the Council’s stance that we
               need prioritize owner-occupied homes, clearly 0.37% is a small minority of the overall
               housing supply.
               o SOLUTION: if the concern is that the number of licensed STRs could balloon beyond the
               existing 40, I recommend instituting a maximum number of permits at any given time. This
               could be an absolute number (for instance, 250 STRs) or a percentage (for instance, only
               20% of a given neighborhood can be STRs).

       ·   The ~40 properties that are currently operating STRs legally with permits are being punished.
             o For the ~40 of us properties that are licensed units, we are potentially going to be
             subjected to strict rules that did not apply during our licensing process. The message feels as
             though there is not only not a reward for doing things the right way, but in fact we are being
             punished. Please do not punish those who have been operating legally: punish those who
             are operating illegally and/or who are violating the rules.
             o SOLUTION: grandfather the currently licensed STRs into the existing rules and do not ban
             existing STRs that are owned by out of state individuals.

       · There is justified action by the Council to ensure that STRs aren’t a nuisance to the
       neighborhood, however a few bad apples are ruining it for all.
             o There are certain STRs across the country (and maybe even in South Salt Lake) that truly
             are a nuisance – they don’t screen their guests, they disregard neighbor complaints, they
             consistently have parties, etc. However, those of us who have been operating as good
             neighbors are being treated as if we have done something wrong.
             o SOLUTION: establish clear rules (such as a local representative must be available if there
             is a complaint, observing quiet hours, no parties, etc.), and punish the STRs that consistently
             violate rules. If an STR is a repeat offender (i.e., three strikes), put them on probation, then
             suspension. For those of us who continue to operate clean, quiet, quaint STRs, do not
             assume we are the bad actors.

       · Exterior to be posted with unit information such as responsible party info, occupant load,
       business license #, etc.
              o This is of great concern to the privacy and safety of my guests, my home, and myself. We
              are exposing personal information to anyone who is walking by and publicly showing that it is
              an STR. If the wrong person sees the sign and that the house is unoccupied, they may break
              into the unit and steal the personal belongings of guests. The last thing the city wants is
              unhappy tourists and business owners.
              o SOLUTION: mandate that this information be posted inside the home in a conspicuous
              place, such as by the front door. Additionally, require that STR operators distribute their
              contact information to their neighbors.


         Once again, I truly understand the difficult task the Council is faced with: how to balance the needs
of its local residents and constituents with the needs of the local economy and visitors. South Salt Lake is a
beautiful, rich, diverse area that is growing every day and this special place needs to be preserved. That
said, I am very much concerned with the Council’s proposed STR legislation and how it will be applied those
existing licensed units. I urge you to please consider our perspective. By working together, we can sharpen
the aforementioned balance and ensure that South Salt Lake is a community where all can thrive.


        I thank you for your time and welcome an open and honest dialogue should you wish to discuss. My
contact information is below.

        Best Regards,


        Emmanuelle Chandler
                                                                                       Eliza Ungricht <eungricht@sslc.gov>



Request for zoom link to meeting on 20th
Alexis Ravenscroft                                                                              Tue, Jan 14, 2025 at 12:00 PM
To: Eliza Ungricht <eungricht@sslc.gov>

  Thanks Eliza, much appreciated! Here is my letter to be included in the packet:

  I'm sure you've received this letter from tons of SSLC STR license holders but I'd be remiss not to request this be shared
  with the SSLC council.

  We, the Utah Association of Short-Term Rental Owners (UASTRO), are writing to share critical insights regarding the
  proposed regulations on short-term rentals (STRs) within South Salt Lake City. Our organization represents property
  owners, operators, and stakeholders across Utah who are committed to responsible and community-focused STR
  operations.

  We believe the Council’s efforts to refine STR policies reflect a desire to balance community concerns with the economic
  and cultural contributions of STRs. However, we must highlight significant legal precedents and practical considerations
  that warrant a thoughtful approach to these regulations.

  Legal Precedents: Lessons from Texas

  Recent legal challenges in Texas underscore the potential risks of enacting restrictive STR policies:
     1. Dallas, Texas
  In December 2023, the City of Dallas sought to enforce an ordinance banning short-term rentals in single-family
  residential neighborhoods, even for operators with longstanding business licenses. STR owners, represented by the
  Dallas Short-Term Rental Alliance, filed suit, arguing the ordinance was unconstitutional and caused irreparable harm.
  Dallas County District Judge Monica Purdy granted an injunction, halting the ordinance’s enforcement. The judge
  emphasized that STR operators had made substantial financial investments based on their legal rights to operate, and the
  ban was deemed “unconstitutionally oppressive.” This case highlights the financial and legal risks municipalities face
  when retroactively limiting previously lawful activities.
     2. Austin, Texas
  Similarly, in Austin, the City faced legal challenges over its homestead requirement, which restricted STR licenses to
  owner-occupied properties. In 2023, a federal court ruled the requirement unconstitutional, recognizing the inherent
  property rights of STR owners. This decision compelled Austin to revise its STR policies, reinforcing the need for balanced
  and legally sound regulations.

  Community Benefits of STRs

  South Salt Lake City’s leadership has long recognized the positive impact of STRs on the community. Mayor Cherie Wood
  has personally engaged with STR operators, utilizing their properties to house artists during Mural Fest—a pivotal event
  that enhances the city’s cultural landscape and beautifies its neighborhoods. This collaboration exemplifies how STRs
  support local initiatives, drive tourism, and strengthen the city’s identity.

  STRs also contribute to the local economy by creating jobs for service providers, supporting local businesses, and
  generating transient lodging taxes. Their role in fostering economic vitality and community growth cannot be overlooked.

  As a personal example, in 2023 we spent over $48,000 with local SLC small businesses, strengthening our
  community's economic foundation.

  Recommendations for STR Policy

  To address community concerns while preserving the benefits of STRs, we urge the Council to:
    1. Grandfather existing licensed STRs under current regulations, ensuring compliance with new standards without
  penalizing prior investments.
    2. Adopt flexible residency requirements, allowing non-local owners to appoint local property managers for oversight
  and accountability.
    3. Recognize that overly restrictive STR policies may drive owners to convert properties into mid-term rentals (MTRs),
  which generate less economic activity and tourism revenue.
    4. Implement clear complaint resolution procedures to prevent misuse of enforcement mechanisms.
                                                                               Eliza Ungricht <eungricht@sslc.gov>



Online Form Submittal: Contact Form - Planning Commissioner - District 1, Christy
Dahlberg
1 message

noreply@civicplus.com <noreply@civicplus.com>                                          Sun, Jan 26, 2025 at 12:25 PM
To: planning@sslc.gov


            Contact Form - Planning Commissioner - District 1, Christy
            Dahlberg

            First Name:                 Quinn

            Last Name:                  Keller

            Email Address:

            Phone Number:

            Subject:                    SHORT TERM RENTAL PROPOSAL

            Message:                    Dear City Council Members,
                                        I am writing to express my concerns about the proposed ban
                                        on short-term rental properties in South Salt Lake, except for
                                        those where the owner resides in the home. While I understand
                                        the intention behind this proposal, I urge you to consider the
                                        broader implications of such a decision.
                                        Many of the current short-term rental owners are not residents
                                        of SSLC but still have a vested interest in the community. I
                                        personally have worked in the Salt Lake Area for 35 years but
                                        live in Utah county. I currently work as a respiratory therapist
                                        for Intermountain Medical Center. I am not a wealthy individual
                                        but have chosen to invest at significant financial risk in South
                                        Salt Lake City. I currently own one home in SSLC and have
                                        invested over $200,000 of my own money in improving the
                                        home. All of that will be at risk because the investment was
                                        based on short-term rent projections that are considerably
                                        higher than a long-term rental. This would be devastating to our
                                        family financial situation.
                                        These homes provide significant economic and community
                                        benefits. Tourism is a key driver of South Salt Lake’s economy,
                                        and short-term rentals attract travelers who seek unique, local
                                        experiences. These visitors often spend money at local
                                        businesses such as restaurants, shops, and entertainment
                                        venues, which directly supports the city's economy and fosters
                                        job creation. Limiting these homes to in-house or in-city
                                        investors will considerably limit investment in these areas.
                                        Moreover, many property owners invested in short-term rentals
                                        under the understanding that they were compliant with existing
regulations. Changing the rules now would impose a significant
financial hardship on these individuals, many of whom have
spent considerable resources upgrading and maintaining their
properties. These improvements often enhance neighborhood
aesthetics, supports local business and increases property
values for surrounding homes. Changing the rules on
businesses and investors makes for an unstable economic
environment.
Safety is also a concern, but it’s worth noting that platforms like
Airbnb have stringent algorithms and policies to prevent high-
risk bookings. For instance, renters flagged as potential risks
for hosting disruptive parties are denied booking privileges.
This technology, combined with responsible management by
property owners, minimizes disruptions to the community.
Additionally, short-term rentals create jobs and support local
service industries. House cleaners, landscapers, handymen,
and other contractors benefit from the demand generated by
these properties. Curtailing short-term rentals would not only
harm property owners but also the many individuals who rely
on these services for their livelihoods.
I respectfully urge the council to consider alternatives to an
outright ban on non-resident owners, such as stricter
regulations or improved enforcement mechanisms, to address
any concerns while preserving the benefits that short-term
rentals bring to South Salt Lake.
Response to Proposal Requiring Signage with Owner Contact
Information
Regarding the proposal to mandate signage with owner contact
information at short-term rental properties, I have concerns
about its potential to infringe on privacy and create unintended
consequences.
While transparency and accountability are important, requiring
signage with owner details displayed publicly raises security
risks for property owners and guests. This could expose them
to harassment, vandalism, or other safety issues. Furthermore,
in the age of digital communication, there are more effective
and secure ways to ensure that neighbors and city officials can
contact property owners if needed.
Platforms like Airbnb already require hosts to provide detailed
contact information to guests and maintain communication
channels. Additionally, owners can be required to register their
properties with the city, providing contact information for official
use without compromising their privacy.
A less intrusive alternative would be to require short-term rental
operators to provide their contact information to adjacent
neighbors directly or make it available through a city-managed
system. This approach would ensure accessibility without
exposing owners to undue risk or creating visual clutter in
neighborhoods.
Thank you for considering these perspectives. I hope the
council will explore balanced solutions that address community
concerns while supporting the rights and contributions of short-
                               term rental operators.

                               Sincerely,
                               Quinn Keller




Additional information about   https://sslc.gov/DocumentCenter/View/2264/Personal-Data-
SSL's Personal Data Request    Request-Notice---Citywide
Notice


                      Email not displaying correctly? View it in your browser.
                                                         Eliza Ungricht <eungricht@sslc.gov>



STR regulations
1 message

Bryan Robin Bennett <r          >                                Mon, Jan 27, 2025 at 3:35 PM
To: planning@sslc.gov


 Dear Members of the South Salt Lake City Council and Planning
 Commissioners,
 We are Bryan and Robin Bennett, proud residents of South Salt Lake for 69
 years. Upon retiring, we decided to travel more frequently to enrich our lives,
 which led us to utilize our home as a Short-Term Rental (STR) when we are
 away. We also manage an STR in Iowa, an arrangement that has proven
 successful and beneficial for both us and our guests.
 This decision has proven to be mutually beneficial for our finances, the local
 economy, and the community as we employ local serviceproviders; including
 cleaners, hot tub maintenance staff, and landscapers to ensure our properties
 are well-maintained and contribute positively to the neighborhood.
 Our experience has shown that well-managed STRs enhance neighborhood
 aesthetics and economic activity. Guest reviews often highlight their
 patronage of local restaurants and businesses, which provides economic
 benefits that permanent residents may not as readily generate. Additionally,
 STRs contribute taxes and fees to the city, on top of the property taxes and
 licensing fees we already pay.
 We understand the importance of having clear rules for STRs. We hold our
 guests to strict standards, and platforms like Airbnb would enforce
 compliance by removing problematic guests if it were to be necessary. In
 contrast, our experience with long-term rentals has proven more challenging,
 as tenant-related issues like yard upkeep or snow removal often require
 significant effort and resources to resolve. In addition, if you have bad renters
 it takes additional costs and lost rent to evict them.
 We are concerned that some proposed changes to STR regulations may
 inadvertently penalize responsible owners like us, while broader neighborhood
 issues, such as unkempt properties and graffiti, persist unchecked. During a
 recent three-month absence, we returned to South Salt Lake to find parts of
 the city in disarray—issues unrelated to STRs but instead tied to overall lack
                                                                              Eliza Ungricht <eungricht@sslc.gov>



Thoughts on New STR Regulations in South Salt Lake
Jeremy Jareckyj                                                                         Tue, Jan 7, 2025 at 3:04 PM
To: "planning@sslc.gov" <planning@sslc.gov>


 To the Planning Members with the City of South Salt Lake,
 I would like to share my thoughts regarding the requirement for short-term rental (STR) owners to live
 specifically within South Salt Lake (SSL). While I understand the intention behind this proposal—ensuring
 owners are connected to the community—I believe it presents significant challenges and unintended
 consequences for STR operators and the local economy.
 Requiring STR owners to reside in SSL would force many existing properties, both licensed and unlicensed,
 to transition to mid-term rentals (30-day minimum stays). This is because a significant number of STR
 owners likely do not live in the immediate area. Forcing such a shift could have negative effects, including
 reduced housing flexibility for visitors, decreased tourism options, and economic losses for the community.
 The council has suggested that living in SSL would help owners better understand and align with community
 values and goals. However, I respectfully disagree with the idea that someone from Northern Utah, or even
 further afield, inherently cares less about the community than a resident of SSL. The vast majority of STR
 owners take pride in their properties and the broader state of Utah. For us, maintaining a clean, safe, and
 visually appealing property—both inside and out—is not only a reflection of our care but also a necessity.
 Positive reviews are the lifeblood of any successful STR, and neglecting property standards quickly leads to
 poor reviews, fewer bookings, and business failure.
 Many responsible property owners—particularly those who do not live locally but remain fully compliant
 and licensed as short-term rental (STR) operators—purchased their properties with the explicit intent to use
 them as STRs. These owners have made substantial investments in purchasing, improving, furnishing, and
 maintaining these properties, with financial calculations predicated on their legal use as STRs.

 For many of these families, including those who reside outside the immediate area, their properties serve
 as both an investment and a personal retreat. They often use their homes for days, weeks, or months
 throughout the year while relying on STR income to offset the significant costs of ownership. These families
 also contribute to the community by paying property taxes, maintaining the appearance of their homes, and
 supporting the local economy through hiring staff such as cleaners, landscapers, pest control providers,
 handymen, and other service professionals. Revoking the ability to operate legally licensed STRs would have
 a devastating financial impact—not only on these hardworking families but also on the locally employed
 professionals and small businesses that depend on this sector.

 Moreover, such a decision would likely lead to costly litigation that could drag on for years, as seen in other
 cities such as Dallas, Texas. In that case, ongoing lawsuits regarding STR restrictions have now surpassed
 three years and have consumed significant public time and resources. If South Salt Lake were to take similar
 action, it could face challenges both from individual property owners, the Airbnb legal department, and
 from organizations like the Utah Association of Short-Term Rental Owners (UASTRO), which has grown
 substantially in membership and resources. This association is already aware of South Salt Lake's proposed
 changes and takes these matters very seriously.


 City Of Dallas Example -
I am writing to share a relevant case from Dallas, Texas, which underscores the legal challenges and financial
implications cities can face when enacting restrictive ordinances targeting short-term rental (STR) operators.
In December 2022, the City of Dallas attempted to enforce an ordinance banning short-term rentals in
single-family residential neighborhoods, even for operators who had been legally running their businesses
for years. This ordinance, which was approved by the City Council in June, faced immediate legal challenges.
STR owners, represented by the Dallas Short-Term Rental Alliance, filed suit, arguing that the ordinance was
unconstitutional and caused irreparable harm to their livelihoods.
Dallas County District Judge Monica Purdy granted an injunction, halting enforcement of the ordinance, and
emphasized that STR owners had made substantial financial investments in reliance on their legal rights to
operate. The judge’s ruling pointed out that the ban could be seen as “unconstitutionally oppressive” and
highlighted the significant economic impact on property owners. She noted that the rights of STR operators
are tied to property ownership in Texas, creating vested interests that cannot be easily overridden.
This case demonstrates the legal and financial risks associated with retroactively limiting previously lawful
activities. If South Salt Lake City pursues similar measures, there is a high likelihood of prolonged litigation
and substantial costs, as well as economic disruption for property owners who relied on their business
licenses in good faith.
I encourage the Council to consider the potential consequences of such actions and to explore balanced
regulations that respect the rights of property owners while addressing community concerns.



Proposed Solution
Rather than imposing a strict residency requirement, I suggest a more flexible and balanced approach:
     1. Owner Residency Range: Allow STR owners who live within a reasonable distance—such as a
        specific mileage or time-based radius of the property—to hold a valid business license. This ensures
        that owners remain close enough to monitor, manage, and care for their properties effectively.

Additionally, all currently licensed units (approximately 40 properties) should be grandfathered under the
existing regulations. This means that while they would be required to comply with new occupancy limits,
signage requirements, and parking guidelines, they would not be subject to new zoning or owner-
occupancy restrictions. Any new permit applications submitted after the notice is sent out (e.g., 170+
currently unlicensed properties) would need to adhere fully to the new regulations. This approach provides
a fair transition, ensuring compliance while protecting legally operating owners from unnecessary hardship
and avoiding potential lawsuits.


     2. Local Property Managers/Hosts: For STR owners who reside outside the approved range, require
        the appointment of a local property manager or responsible party who lives within the designated
        area. This individual would serve as the primary point of contact for the city and the community,
        ensuring swift responses to issues, ongoing compliance with local regulations, and proactive
        property oversight. This model has been successfully implemented in cities like Heber City, Utah,
        where it has proven effective in balancing community interests and STR operations.

Why This Works
This balanced approach achieves the council’s goals while addressing the practical realities of STR
ownership. It:
       Promotes local oversight and accountability.
       Ensures STRs operate responsibly and align with community values.
       Supports tourism and the local economy without unnecessarily restricting property rights.
In conclusion, responsible STR owners already prioritize the quality, safety, and appearance of their
properties—regardless of where they live. Allowing a fair residency radius or requiring a local property
manager strikes an appropriate balance between community interests and property owner rights.
Short-term rentals contribute to the vibrancy of South Salt Lake by supporting tourism, enhancing local
businesses, and providing visitors with unique lodging options. A fair and practical regulatory framework—
such as the one proposed above—will allow STRs to thrive while ensuring accountability, neighborhood
harmony, and community goals are upheld.


By adopting this solution, South Salt Lake can strike a balance between addressing community concerns,
maintaining economic benefits, and protecting the rights of responsible property owners who have
operated ethically and legally. This approach also reduces the risk of prolonged litigation, protects local jobs,
and ensures the continued contribution of STRs to the city’s economy.




---Additional Thoughts on other Proposed Items/Other----


Long Term Rentals:
Many properties that are used for short-term rentals (STRs) are specifically furnished, designed, and
marketed to cater to the unique needs of transient guests. These properties often feature high-quality
furniture, amenities, and flexible booking arrangements, which make them highly attractive to short-term
visitors. As a result, STR owners will be reluctant to transition to long-term rentals, as doing so would
significantly alter the financial dynamics, flexibility, and usage of the property.
In practice, most STR owners facing restrictions in South Salt Lake are likely to first pivot toward Mid-Term
Rentals (MTRs), which are in high demand in the region. These rentals typically cater to professionals,
contractors, and tourists who require housing for stays ranging from 30 to 90 days. The shift from an STR to
an MTR is relatively simple—owners only need to adjust their booking calendars to restrict stays to a
minimum of 30 days. Both STRs and MTRs are generally managed in similar ways, with only slight variations
in terms of lease length and tenant interaction.
There will no longer be the transient /hotel tax collected automatically from every booking, which mean
less money coming in to the local government in this way. This fee will NOT be collected when they are
rented as a 30-night+ mid-term furnished rental.
According to Utah state law and Salt Lake County regulations, any rental that exceeds 30 days is classified as
a long-term rental. If further restrictions are imposed on STRs in South Salt Lake, many owners will simply
convert their properties into MTRs. This transition is an appealing option, as the rental income from MTRs
tends to be significantly higher than that of traditional long-term rentals, which are often capped at lower
market rates.
Moreover, converting to an MTR also provides additional benefits for property owners:
     1. Lower Fees: Once an owner switches to an MTR model, they will no longer be subject to the higher
        STR licensing fees. Instead, they will fall under the standard landlord program, which generally
        carries lower regulatory costs.
     2. Greater Flexibility: With mid-term rentals, owners retain more control over the property, can avoid
        dealing with long-term tenant issues, and still capitalize on the higher rental rates associated with
        more flexible lease structures.
Ultimately, these financial and operational incentives mean that STR owners in South Salt Lake are likely to
transition to MTRs rather than long-term rentals, should further STR restrictions be enacted. This shift could
result in fewer available properties for short-term visitors, limiting tourism and economic activity in the
area, while increasing the supply of mid-term rental options instead.

Short Term Rentals Guests/Economy of South Salt Lake:
       Short-term rental guests significantly contribute to the local economy, especially in areas with a
       vibrant tourism scene. While many of these guests are staying for just a few days, they typically
       spend money at local businesses—restaurants, shops, and breweries—enhancing the overall
       economic activity of the area. Unlike traditional hotel guests, STR visitors often prefer a more
       personalized experience and actively seek recommendations from their hosts. This means that many
       guests make a conscious effort to eat, shop, and explore locally, contributing directly to the
       businesses that rely on tourism for their revenue.
       For example, guests staying in short-term rentals may inquire about local dining options, favorite
       spots for shopping, and nearby entertainment or cultural experiences. Hosts, who often have a deep
       knowledge of the area, provide suggestions that encourage guests to support neighborhood
       businesses rather than opting for chain restaurants or large shopping centers. This type of spending
       has a multiplier effect on the local economy, as money spent at a locally owned business often stays
       within the community, benefitting other local suppliers and service providers.
       This behavior benefits not just small businesses but also local government revenues from increased
       taxes on restaurant sales, retail purchases, and entertainment. As the number of STRs grows, their
       role in driving economic activity becomes more apparent.
       In conclusion, short-term rental guests not only help support local businesses but also create a
       stronger sense of community involvement, where both residents and visitors actively contribute to a
       thriving local economy.


Another important factor to consider is how many local small businesses rely on short-term rentals (STRs) to
stay in business. In South Salt Lake, numerous service providers—such as handymen, landscapers, cleaners,
hot tub companies, and others—are able to thrive because they directly support the operation and upkeep
of STRs. These businesses often depend on the steady demand created by short-term rental properties for
their livelihood. For example, cleaning companies might handle turnarounds between guests, landscapers
may maintain outdoor spaces, and handymen take care of routine repairs and maintenance.
Without the constant turnover of STRs, many of these small businesses would face a significant loss of
revenue, putting their operations at risk. These service providers form a critical part of the STR ecosystem,
and without the STR market, their businesses might struggle to survive, which could lead to job losses or
even closures.
By supporting STRs, we are not only helping property owners but also supporting a wide network of local
small businesses that depend on them to sustain their operations and contribute to the local economy.


Infrastructure:

Over the years, I and a few other local investors have completed substantial, permitted remodels on
properties that were previously in significant disrepair. Throughout these projects, we have worked closely
with Jeff, Chad, and Drew from the building department to ensure compliance and quality. Our primary goal
has always been to keep these properties as licensed short-term rentals in South Salt Lake. Many of these
properties have been renovated to a high standard, specifically to attract high-end STR guests.
We’ve been consistently told by building department officials and inspectors that our work has had a
positive impact on the area. The influx of individuals purchasing and renovating properties for short-term
rentals has contributed significantly to increasing the overall property values and improving the
neighborhood’s aesthetic. These investments have revitalized homes that may have otherwise been left
neglected, leading to both a visual and financial uplift in the community.

This investment has also made the neighborhood more vibrant and appealing. The well-maintained short-
term rentals offer modern amenities and thoughtful improvements that elevate the overall look and feel of
the area. Far from detracting from the community, short-term rentals have played a key role in its
revitalization, drawing both tourists and long-term residents who appreciate the positive changes.

While I understand the concerns about potential downsides, it’s equally important to recognize the positive
contributions short-term rentals have made to local property values, supporting local businesses to
complete substantial remodels, neighborhood renewal, and community pride.




Restricting Locals from Booking:
This ties directly into my point about the value of having a local manager for short-term rentals. A local
manager can more effectively vet guests, ensuring that those who book the property are a good fit and are
less likely to cause disruptions. Local managers are familiar with the community and the specific rules and
expectations of the area, which helps them screen for potential issues—such as parties or large gatherings
—before they happen.
In contrast to larger, more detached rental companies, local hosts and managers are deeply invested in
maintaining the integrity of their neighborhoods. They don’t want their properties to become party houses
or create problems for neighbors. By having someone on the ground who can communicate directly with
guests, monitor bookings, and address concerns in real-time, local hosts are in a much better position to
prevent unruly behavior and ensure that their rentals remain respectful and peaceful.



-------


In summary, I know that this is not an easy task the planning commission is working on to be able to
balance the needs of residents and constituents with the needs of the local economy and visitors. I am
concerned with this proposed STR regulation and how it will be applied to those with existing licensed units.
I hope you can consider our perspective as well and we can come to an agreement that protects those who
went about STRs in the right way from the beginning (applying for the license, getting the inspection etc),
especially since that is a pretty small group.


Thank you so much for your time and please reach out to me anytime, I would be happy to discuss further.


Jeremy Jareckyj
Short Term Rentals in South
         Salt Lake
STR Impact on Rent Price and Home Prices
• Impact of Airbnb on Housing Prices and Rents (in areas with 56%
  Owner-Occupancy or lower):
• A 1% increase in Airbnb listings results in:
    • 0.024% increase in rents
    • 0.037% increase in house prices
• This finding is attributed to research by Kyle Barron, Edward Kung,
  and Davide Proserpio, economics professors at USC, UCLA, and Cal
  State, as reported by Wharton Marketing (UPenn).

SOURCE - Wharton Marketing. UPenn . Effect of Home-Sharing on House Prices and Rents
    1000 Rental Units in SSL = 1% increase of STRs = 10 New STRS



- a 0.024% increase in rents
If my rent in SSL is $2000/mo = $2,000.48

- a 0.037% increase in house prices
House Price at $400,000 = $400,148
      STRs Have Minimal Impact on Urban Housing but a Strong Presence in Tourism Areas:
      Limited Urban Presence:
          STRs represent only 1.9% of all residential units statewide.
          In Salt Lake County, STRs make up just 1.1% of total housing units, indicating a limited
          effect on urban housing availability.

      Concentration in High Tourism Regions:
         Summit County: STRs account for 23.8% of total housing.
         Grand County: STRs make up 18.7% of housing.
         Rich County: STRs comprise 17.9% of housing.

      Proximity to Recreational Attractions:
           83.1% of STRs are within 10 miles of state or national parks.
           24.9% are within 10 miles of ski resorts.
      This data underscores that STRs are far more concentrated in tourism-driven regions than in
      urban centers, which experience minimal STR market penetration.


Source ---- The Evolving Landscape of Utah's Short-Term Rental Market - Dejan Eskic Oct 2024 Kem. C Gardner Policy Institute
STR Impact on Long Term Housing
How does the addition of a short-term rental (STR) affect the
availability of long-term housing?

At what rate is long-term housing affected?




ANWSER ------- >                UNKNOWN
Removing One STR = Adding One LTR back to the
                  market



   STR = Short Term                LTR = Long Term
        Rental                          Rental
Landlord Converting to a LTR
• Does the current long-term rental income adequately cover mortgage
  payments, insurance, property taxes, maintenance costs, vacancy
  reserves, and capital expenditures (CAPEX)?



• What is the current level of competition in the rental market, and how
  many comparable properties is the landlord competing against?
STR Impact on Owner Occupant Properties
How does the addition of a short-term rental (STR) affect the
availability of housing for owner occupants?

At what rate is housing availability for owner occupants affected?




ANWSER ------- >                It Depends.
Removing One STR = Adding One Property Back
  on the Market to Owner Occupant Purchase
                                                     As of January 28, 2025

We have an affordability issue. In terms of rental
           rates and home prices.
STRs really took off in the last 4 years in SSL




                         Assumes: 20% down (includes taxes
                             and insurance estimated in)
Bought in the last 5 years? Property Won’t
       work as a Long Term Rental
Licensed Units Are Not the Same
      as Unlicensed Units
                        ~40 Licensed                                    ~160 Non-
                           Units                                      Licensed Units




                                                                   Unknown when they
Good Majority of Licensees
                                                                 purchased -- Most likely
 Bought within last 4 years        Bought due to SSL issuing
                                                               bought to earn STR income or
Roughly 27 Licensees in SL                 permits
                                                                converted from LTR to get a
County and 11 out of State.
                                                                    higher STR income.
                                    ~40 Licensed
                                       Units




Significant Investments for Legal Operation: Licensed STR owners have made
considerable investments to comply with local regulations, including completing
inspections and obtaining permits to operate legally regardless of what zone they
are in.

Critical for Financial Sustainability: These property owners depend on the higher
income generated from STRs to cover essential expenses such as mortgage
payments, insurance, property taxes, maintenance, and capital reserves.
Mostly Individually Owned, Not Corporate: Having an LLC on a license does not
indicate corporate ownership. In fact, only 1.5-2.5% of single-family homes
statewide are owned by corporations, highlighting that most STR operators are
individual homeowners.

Aligned with SSL's Property Care Goals: Permit holders are naturally incentivized to
maintain their properties in excellent condition to protect their investments and meet
the financial demands of ownership. Reviews are the backbone of an STR property.

Seasonal Use and Community Enhancement: Many owners personally enjoy their
properties throughout the year, investing in upgrades and improvements that
contribute positively to the South Salt Lake community.
              If your STR in R1 could no longer operate
                        what would you do ?
After interviewing 21 of the approximately 40 STR license holders in South Salt Lake, here are the key findings:


Selling Properties
• 4 of 21 owners are planning to sell their property.
• As of January 27, 2025, 178 residential properties are for sale in South Salt Lake.
• Affordability Concerns: Most long-term tenants cannot afford to purchase these homes or pay rents that would make financial sense for recent
  investors (within the last 4 years).
• Investors are unlikely to purchase these homes for long-term rentals, as rental rates do not cover the cost of ownership based on current housing
  prices.
Conversion to Furnished Monthly Rentals
• 17 of 21 owners intend to convert their STRs into furnished monthly rentals.
• This transition offers higher monthly rent and minimal operational changes for owners.
• Impact on Local Taxes: South Salt Lake would no longer collect transient lodging or local taxes on these properties.
• Permit and Compliance: Owners would no longer be required to pay STR renewal fees but remain compliant with Utah's long-term rental regulations.
  They can also continue using STR booking platforms per state law.
Legal Pursuit
• 19 of 21 owners will consult a local attorney and pursue litigation, either as a group or individually. Utah Short Term Rental Association to assist with
  this.
Dallas Restricts Short Term Rentals
• In December twenty twenty-three, the City of Dallas attempted to
  enforce an ordinance banning short-term rentals in single-family
  residential neighborhoods, even for operators who had been legally
  running their businesses for years.
• This ordinance, which was approved by the City Council in June, faced
  immediate legal challenges. STR owners, represented by the Dallas
  Short-Term Rental Alliance, filed suit, arguing that the ordinance was
  unconstitutional and caused irreparable harm to their livelihoods.
Effects of New Regulations in Dallas
• Dallas County District Judge Monica Purdy granted an injunction,
  halting enforcement of the ordinance, and emphasized that STR
  owners had made substantial financial investments in reliance on
  their legal rights to operate. The judge’s ruling pointed out that the
  ban could be seen as “unconstitutionally oppressive” and highlighted
  the significant economic impact on property owners.
• Judge Purdy noted that the rights of STR operators are tied to
  property ownership in Texas, creating vested interests that cannot be
  easily overridden.
City of New Orleans Restricts Short Term Rentals
• In August of 2019, City Council voted 7-0 to ban the short-term
  rentals of whole houses not occupied by the owners. It also puts
  limits on the number of short-term rentals on commercial properties
  and bans all short-term rentals in most of the historic French Quarter
  and the Garden District after previously being permitted
Effects of New Regulations in New Orleans
• The 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled months later that the
  provision unconstitutionally restricts interstate commerce and
  claimed “the burden it imposed was not ‘clearly excessive in relation
  to the putative local benefits.’”
• Appeals court judges said the city must look at alternatives that don’t
  eliminate out-of-state property owners, such as limits on the number
  of licenses issued in a given area while allowing existing operators to
  continue.
A sudden ban/restriction not only undermines these investments but also
risks being deemed "unconstitutionally oppressive" by infringing on vested
property rights. In Utah, property ownership confers certain rights that cannot
be easily overridden without violating constitutional protections. Cities must
honor their prior permissions to maintain legal integrity and protect the
economic interests of their residents. This precedent serves as a strong
warning against arbitrary regulatory reversals that jeopardize lawful business
operations.
Local Municipalities and STRs
Sandy –
Since 2018, Sandy City had outlawed STRs. In mid year of 2018, They
proposed new restrictions for STRs in regards to owner occupancy and
permit caps in districts. No previous operators had their licenses taken
with the new restrictions because they were previously not allowed
anyways.
Local Municipalities and STRs
Salt Lake City –
Salt Lake City has always not allowed STRs.

In zones where hotel or motel use is permitted or conditionally
approved, or where the HOA allows nightly rentals, enforcement is
currently not active. However, licenses are not being issued in these
areas either. There are ongoing discussions about potentially issuing
licenses in the future, but nothing has been finalized yet.
Local Municipalities and STRs
Millcreek –


In 2018 Millcreek allowed STRs outright no restrictions with a business license. Caused issues similar to SSL.


In 2019, they changed to owner occupant only.


In 2020, they changed to Owner occupant and can't be within 400 / of another STR.


If you operated an STR with a license, prior to 2019, you were not subject to the new regulations and got to
continue your use as long as your license didn't lapse. No existing licensees were stripped of their ability to
operate and were grandfathered in.
    Following the implementation of new
  restrictions, all municipalities in the state
    allowed existing license holders to be
   grandfathered in. As long as the license
remained active and did not lapse, licensees
were permitted to maintain their use without
    being subject to the new restrictions.
      More Effective Ways to Address Long Term
            Rentals+ Additional Housing



                     Allow for more zoning to be         Advocating for more
 Allow ADUs in ALL   more geared towards Multi-       flexible ADU regulations,
zones + ADUs don’t      Family Development –        including reduced setbacks,
 have to be owner     Medium Density Housing               increased height
     occupant                                             allowances, larger
                                EX -                 permitted square footage
                     https://www.utahrealestate.c       for ADUs, and greater
                             om/2001528             flexibility for mother-in-law
                                                               additions.
Complaints Don’t Equal Violations
• STR supposedly get lots of complaints but are these complaints actual
  violations?
• Time with complaints could be better spent elsewhere BUT will all
  these new laws/restrictions stop complaints? Particularly those that
  don’t lead to any violations.. Complaints will always come regardless
  of what you do.
• Will workload increase even more trying to monitor STRs further if we
  enact too many regulations/limits? Let’s consider what is going to
  most effective for our city to handle as well.
Pros of STRs
Contribution to Local Jobs
• Cleaners
• Handymen/Maintenance
• Hot Tub/Pool Companies
• Landscaping
• Trades – Electrical, Plumbing, Drain Cleaning, HVAC
Taxes + Economic Growth + Local Immersion
• STR owners invest in their properties, revitalizing distressed areas and supporting
  local supply stores and tradespeople.
   • “You definitely have contributed a lot to improving blighted homes in this community. That
     has not gone unnoticed.” – SSL Building Department
• Investment in residential property development with STRs, boosts local
  economies and increases tax revenues
• STRs can stimulate local economies by increasing tourism and related spending
   • Guests are encouraged to spend money at nearby restaurants, shops, and attractions
   • STR guests also are traveling and tend to contribute more to the local economy more than a
     Long Term Tenant  Median Income $48K
• Provide local accommodation for those who can be immersed in South Salt Lake
  culture
   • Artists for mural fest have rented mine and a friend’s STRs for the past 2 years. We plan to
     host them again this year.
Additional Tax Income



                         13.52%
                        goes to
                        Taxes
Estimate of Taxes Paid Out for SSL STRs
$6000/mo Gross Booking Fee (nightly rates, cleaning fees, pet fees,
guest fees )
(higher earners + lower earners but this is an average that guest pays –
NOTE: STR Owners only actually make 65-70% of this)

-----$6000 *13.52% = $811.2 To Taxes Every Month Per Listing ----

-----$811.2 (200 STRs) =
     $162,240 in Taxes Every Month
SSL Taxes Alone

                                                   Transient Room Tax (South Salt Lake -
                                                   1%


                                                   Local Sales and Use Tax (South Salt
                                                   Lake) = 1%



  Out of the 13.52% Tax Rate  2% Goes Directly To South Salt Lake

  $162,240 * (2/13.52) = $24,000 Every Month to South Salt Lake

  This is ONLY Airbnb Taxes. It doesn’t take into account contribution to the local economy, contribution to local
  jobs, payment of property taxes, or STR permit/renewal Fees.
Cons of STRs
1. Disrupt the feeling of community particularly in our residential
   zones. We want neighbors to know their neighbors.

2. We need homes. We want people to purchase these homes and live
   here, pay taxes here, eat here etc.
   1. Long Term Rentals won’t really be added to the market much if purchase in
      the last few years because rentals haven’t caught up with costs of
      properties. (Long term rentals would be better solves with the addition of
      more flexible ADU laws or medium density housing)
   2. Providing more homes on the market can help SSL increase it’s Owner
      Occupancy percentage. Generating a more community focused feeling.
Cons of STRs
3. Ensuring that STRs operate within designated zones and adhere to
local regulations can be complex, necessitating robust enforcement
mechanisms.

4. Noise and Nuisances: Residents have reported concerns about
noise, parking issues, and trash violations associated with STRs.
A Different Approach:

     Owner Occupants can get STR permits in R1 and RM zones

                                 AND

 You have to live in South Salt Lake or a certain range to get a permit
A Different Approach:
We don’t need more STRs. Particularly in our residential areas:
• SSL needs the housing + ability for people to purchase those
  properties to live in residential areas without an investment mindset
  (or future investment mindset for that matter)
• If we allow for Owner Occupants to STR or for people to live within a
  certain range to run an STR, we allow for STRs to potentially continue
  to grow in our residential neighborhoods, which is exactly what the
  community does not want. We need to set limits on how many can
  operate.
• The RM and R1 districts are exactly the zones we want to heavily limit
  STRs, not continue to allow them.
A Different Approach:
STRs are Hotels. Simple as that. Let’s keep them in zones that allow hotels:
 They should be allowed in zones that conditionally allow hotels per our zoning matrix : CN, CC,
TOD, Mixed Use, Gateway West.

Salt Lake City doesn’t allow under 30 day rentals but they don’t enforce STRs them where the
zoning allows for hotel/motel. They are considering issuing licenses or bed/breakfast licenses for
these properties.

South Salt Lake also has a unique number of homes in business, transit, or commercial zones
where residential may not be an allowed use. Many homes in these zones don’t attract families
because they lack a true "neighborly" feel anyway. To be honest.. they almost make the perfect fit
for STRs and we have to make use of these homes in some way shape or form.

Availability of these types of properties that would make sense in these zones is limited anyways
Potential Solutions
• Grandfather in ~40 Units (27 of the Owners are already in Salt Lake County). Units
  who never became licensed aren’t allowed to operate.
   • I doubt many more units have applied for permits once the notice was issued because with
     the upcoming changes they are more encouraged to try to stay hidden.
   • Avoids litigation from upset property owners who made substantial investments in recent
     years + avoids the argument about violation of property rights
   • ~160 Non-licensed Units would be available to Long Term Rent / New Owner Occupant
     Purchase
   • Comply with new regulations about occupancy, signage, fees, trash, and snow removal
   • Saves substantial city man hours and time. City already has records and information of all
     these properties.

• Grandfathered units - if owner does not live in South Salt Lake must:
   • Hire a local Host/Manager within a certain range
   • Comply with new regulations about occupancy, signage, fees, trash, and snow removal
Side Note on Local Hosts / Local Contact
Heber City implemented that all STRs in operation must have a local contact within 10 miles of the
property and accomplishes goal of having the property well looked after. Local contacts care about
the local community.

Local contact can be available in times of need and will ensure the property is well taken care of.
Local contact will have all information given to the city.

Local contact able to ensure guests abide by occupancy requirements, parking restrictions, removal
of ”parties” which STR platforms such as Airbnb also assist in.

Local contact able to perform property inspections to ensure property is in good condition and
following all requirements.

Post Information of Local Contact– Trash, License #, ETC (interior is completely agreeable, exterior
raises concerns about property safety issues)
    Side Note on Education + Good Landlord
                Program (STRs)
• Require Owners or Local Hosts to take an accredited hospitality
  course at UVU
• Most cities in Nevada require Owners to take their STR Certification
  Course to get a business license
   • https://www.strcertification.com/resources
   • The course has to be taken every 4 years to be able to keep their business
     license for Nevada operators
      Proposed Solutions Continued
• Set a Cap to the # of Licenses Issued + the Cap can be the permits that are already
  issued:
   • Many cities throughout Utah including : Hurricane, Ogden, Millcreek, Kanab, Heber City, and many
     more have set limits on how many licenses can be issued at one time
   • Some cities have also limited how many STRs can be within a certain range of another licensed STR
     (say 750 ft)
   • Cap the total licenses at exactly how many licenses there are currently. If population increases or
     there is a substantial amount of people on a waiting list, SSL could issue another STR license to the
     next in line. This would save the city a lot of time trying to wrangle new units or new licensees. The
     city can focus on removing those who are not licensed and make sure the current licenses are
     following all regulations.
   • The licensed short-term rentals we do have are the cream of the crop. These are the property
     owners who care about doing things the right way from the start, and it shows in how they maintain
     their properties and engage with the community. These are the kinds of operators we want to keep.
• Allow Licenses to be transferrable upon sale ONLY
   • If a property is an established STR, it most likely would be purchased as such. Allowing a license
     transfer keeps the STR in the same location so the city always has eyes on it.
   • City could charge an owner transfer fee for an STR license
Aligning with the Goals for SSL
Licensed Owners Care about their STRs
1. Any owner who lives in South Salt Lake (SSL) or nearby is invested in
their short-term rental (STR). It’s their property, and they rely on
reviews to maintain its success. The same holds true for those who
went through the process of obtaining an STR license, whether local or
our of state residency—they made a substantial investment with the
belief that the license would protect them. These owners wanted to
ensure they were adhering to the city’s standards from the start.
Owners who are just in it for the quick money wouldn't go through
the effort of getting licensed and complying with all the regulations.
Summed Up
We need Long Term Rentals + Housing Availability:
1. 160 + units who failed to comply with a license can be available as a long term rentals
   to locals OR become available as a home for purchase to someone who will owner
   occupy

There are benefits of STRs but in limited quantities:
1. Allow the 40 Licensed units to continue operation which will avoid legal issues from
    owners and still get the positive effects from STRs with a very small quantity.
     1.   Save city time + resources by allowing them to regulate the STRs they already have information
          on.
2.   License caps would keep STRs to a minimum, especially in residential areas where we
     don’t need more STRs.
3.   Allow ”Ramada Inns” where Ramada Inns are supposed to go. (CN, TOD, CC, DT, Mixed
     Use. Gateway West per our zoning matrix)
THE DECISION IS YOURS
• Thanks for your time.
• Wishing for many prosperous
  years ahead for the city.
• Here is link to the recorded
  presentation
  https://drive.google.com/file/d/1
  TWNolodoMF-
  aNXNp6G8g6NRVGJ3lBoL2/view?
  usp=drive_link
                                                                                        Eliza Ungricht <eungricht@sslc.gov>



Short Term Rental Recommendation
Peter Borge                                                                                        Thu, Feb 20, 2025 at 8:34 PM
To: Eliza Ungricht <eungricht@sslc.gov>

  Eliza,

  I'm currently on the zoom call and was just informed that there would be no way to participate online. This wasn't
  explained in the notice and seems like a bait and switch. Here are my questions and concerns that I couldn't share during
  the public meeting.

  - As a host we have an incentive to have a 5* rating, disruptive guests lower that. Police being called leads to lower
  ratings which leads to less bookings and less revenue.
  - Most good hosts have property managers who are responsive, responsible and are within 30-60 minutes of the
  property.
  - Are there specific metrics on the impact of short term rentals vs. long term rentals? Most of what was presented was
  anecdotal.
  - A posting in the window is an advertisement for burglars
  - I love the city, I spend several weeks a year here. I've brought my family and friends here.
  - Short term rentals drive tourism.
  - There are 3x more unregistered owners than registered.
  - I pay taxes in Utah, I'm licensed, and I've taken the good landlord certification.

  Questions
  - Are there statistics that show "poorly behaved" renters are from out of town owners vs. local owners?
  - The presentation says the majority of AirBnBs are unlicensed. If there isn't a way to enforce getting licensed, how will
  this be enforced?

  Thank you for your time and consideration,
  -Peter
  [Quoted text hidden]
       Attachment 3 – STR Regional Current Affair



Millcreek April 2024 – (sorry, you have to paste this into your browser): chrome-
extension://efaidnbmnnnibpcajpcglclefindmkaj/https://www.millcreekut.gov/DocumentCenter/View/4299/04-05-
24_Short-Term-Rentals-Ordinance-Changes?bidId=)

   •   Limits STR to owner occupied primary residences;
   •   Limits total # of STR;
   •   Requires 400’ of separation from another STR

Murray (Dec. 2024)

   •   Owner Occupied - Requires host (owner) to be present during stay

The Evolving Landscape of Utah’s Short-Term Rental Market (Kem Gardner Policy Institute, October 2024),
Short-Term Rental Inventory (Kem Gardner Policy Institute, June 2022)
Short-Term Rental Policy & Best Practices (Utah DWS Housing & Community Development, March 2023)
Airbnb regulation toolkit for policymakers (June of 2023).
Deseret News (Oct. 2024)

   •   The number of state-wide STR increased 39% (16,803 to 23428) from 2021 to 2023
   •   Disproportionate in tourism economies
   •   Impacting housing affordability

Utah News Dispatch (August 2024)

   •   In 2023, 108,451 of Salt Lake County’s 402,851 housing units, were corporate-owned, or 26.9%
   •   Between 2018 and 2023, 7,230 residential properties – or 10,666 homes – changed hands from non-
       corporate to corporate owned.


Cottonwood Heights (Nov 2024) - https://kutv.com/news/local/cottonwood-heights-considers-changes-to-
short-term-rental-enforcement

   •   500 STR listings, only 110 licenses
   •   Enforcement hard
   •   Supports local economy, but impacts livability and housing affordability

Washington County (Dec. 2024)

   •   Housing resources affected by STR




                                                          1
                             ORDINANCE NO. 2025-____

AN ORDINANCE OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL AMENDING SECTION
17.10.120 OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE TO INCLUDE A
STANDARD ROAD PROFILE FOR HAVEN AVENUE BETWEEN MAIN STREET AND
STATE STREET IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT.

      WHEREAS, THE South Salt Lake City Council (“City Council”) is authorized to
enact and amend ordinances governing the City of South Salt Lake (“City”), including
ordinances regulating land use and development within the City; and
      WHEREAS, City Staff proposes the addition of a Standard Road Profile for
Haven Avenue between State Street and Main Street in the Downtown District in
Section 17.10.120 of the Land Use and Development Ordinance as shown in the
attached Exhibit A; and
      WHEREAS, the South Salt Lake General Plan 2040 directs the development and
growth of the City through goals and strategies that support the City’s community and
economic values; and
      WHEREAS, the General Plan identifies the Downtown Neighborhood as a
regional mixed-use center; and
       WHEREAS, the General Plan further directs creating planning and zoning tools
that promote high-quality neighborhood-oriented development and revitalization,
enhanced connectivity, and well-maintained public streets and sidewalks; and
       WHEREAS, on March 6, 2025, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed
public hearing, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-503 and South Salt Lake City
Municipal Code § 17.11.060, and the public had an opportunity to comment on the
proposed amendment to the City’s land use and regulations; and
       WHEREAS, on March 6, 2025, the Planning Commission unanimously found that
the proposed amendment is consistent with the goals and objectives of the City’s
General Plan and in the best interest of the City and forwarded a recommendation of
approval to the City Council; and
        WHEREAS, the City Council met in regular session on March 12, 2025, to
review, among other things, the proposed amendment, the Planning Commission’s
recommendation, and the objections, if any, forwarded for the City Council’s review and
finds that the proposed amendment is beneficial to the City, its residents, business
members, and visitors; and
       WHEREAS, the City Council hereby determines that the amendment to Title 17
of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code aligns with the City’s interests in promoting
prosperity, economic and orderly growth, and improving the comfort, convenience, and
aesthetics of the City.




                                            5
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of South Salt
Lake as follows:

      SECTION I. Enactment. City of South Salt Lake Municipal Code Title 17 Land
Use and Development, section 17.10.120, is hereby amended as outlined in Exhibit A.
       SECTION II. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of this ordinance is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court
of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this ordinance.
       SECTION II. Conflict with Existing Ordinances, Resolutions, or Policies. To the
extent that any ordinance, resolution, or policy of the City of South Salt Lake conflicts
with the provisions of this ordinance, this ordinance shall prevail.
       SECTION IV. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon the
Mayor’s signature and publication, or after fifteen (15) days or transmission to the Office
of the Mayor if neither approved nor disapproved by the Mayor, and thereafter,
publication.
      (Signatures appear on next page; remainder of page intentionally left blank)




                                             6
Dated this _____day of______________2025.


                                                     BY THE CITY COUNCIL:


                                                     ___________________________________
                                                     Sharla Bynum, Council Chair

ATTEST:


_____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


City Council Vote as Recorded:

Bynum
deWolfe
Huff
Mitchell
Sanchez
Thomas
Williams


Transmitted to the Mayor’s office on this   day of                                 2025.



       Ariel Andrus, City Recorder


MAYOR’S ACTION:


       Dated this _____day of                              , 2025.



                                            Cherie Wood, Mayor
ATTEST:


Ariel Andrus, City Recorder




                                               7
EXHIBIT A:

17.10.120 Requirements for Improvements and Design.
A.   Compliance. In addition to the requirements established herein, all Subdivision Plats shall comply with the
     following law, rules, and regulations:
     1.   All applicable statutory provisions.
     2.   The Municipal Code.
     3.   The Roadways and Functional Classifications in the General Plan, Official Land Use Map, public utilities
          plans and regulations, and Capital Improvements Programs, including all Streets, trails, drainage
          systems, and parks shown on the Official Map or Master Plan adopted or amended for the Subdivision.
     4.   The rules of the Utah Department of Transportation if the Subdivision or any Lot contained therein
          abuts a state highway or Street.
B.   The South Salt Lake City Construction Specifications and Standard Drawings. All improvements in areas that
     will become public Rights-of-Ways and/or easements, or that will become the responsibility of a home
     owners' association shall meet the following requirements.
     1.   Current MS-4 permit standards and South Salt Lake City Storm Drain Standards.
     2.   The Utah Chapter, American Public Works Association (APWA) Manual of Standard Plans, current
          edition with all approved supplements is the City's general construction standard.
     3.   The City has adopted refinements to the APWA standards that supersede the APWA Manual as
          provided below.
     4.   Any variation, substitution, or exception from the standards in this policy must be authorized by the
          City Engineer or his/her designee. Any item of construction not covered by the provided standards
          must have plans and specifications must be approved by the City Engineer or his/her designee.
     5.   City refinements to the APWA standards are as follows:
          a.    Roadway, curb, gutter, driveway, and sidewalk standards.
                i.    Plan 205.1: Curb and gutter. The City's standard plan is depicted below and replaces APWA
                      Plan 205.1.




                                                        8
ii.    Plan 209: Curbs. No details from plan 209 are acceptable. The City of South Salt Lake
       standard is Type A, from plan 205.1.
iii.   Plan 211: Waterway. The City's standard plan is depicted below and replaces APWA Plan
       211. The City of South Salt Lake standard shall be a four-foot (4') waterway. No other
       details are acceptable.




                                        9
iv.    Plan 225: Open driveway approach. This plan is not acceptable and is deleted.
v.     Plan 229.1: Bridge driveway approach. This plan is not acceptable and is deleted.
vi.    Plan 229.2: Bridge driveway approach. This plan is not acceptable and is deleted.
vii.   Plan 231: Sidewalk. The City's standard plan is depicted below and replaces APWA Plan
       231. The City of South Salt Lake only accepts sidewalk widths of five feet (5').




                                       10
viii. Plan 235.1: Corner curb cut assembly. The City of South Salt Lake standard is Example B.
      Example A may be acceptable, at the City Engineer's sole discretion, if Example B is not
      feasible for the particular project.
ix.     Plan 235.2: Corner curb cut assembly. This plan is not acceptable and is deleted.
x.      Plan 235.3: Corner curb cut assembly. This plan is not acceptable and is deleted.
xi.     Plan 235.4: Corner curb cut assembly. This plan is not acceptable and is deleted.
xii.    Plan 256.1: Concrete pavement patch. This plan is not acceptable and is deleted.
xiii.   Plan 256.2: Concrete pavement patch. The City's standard plan is depicted below and
        replaces APWA Plan 256.2.




                                         11
b.   Drainage catch basins, inlets, outlets, and hardware standards.
     i.     Plan 303: 44" Frame and cover. This plan is not acceptable and is deleted.
     ii.    Plan 304: 48" Cover and frame. This plan is not acceptable and is deleted.
     iii.   Plan 305.1: 51" Cover and frame. This plan is not acceptable and is deleted.
     iv.    Plan 305.2: 51" Cover and frame. This plan is not acceptable and is deleted.
     v.     Plan 305.3: 51" Cover and frame. This plan is not acceptable and is deleted.
     vi.    Plan 308: 35 ½" Grate and frame. Curb hoods are not allowed.
     vii.   Plan 309: 47 ¾" Grate and frame. The City's standard plan is depicted below and replaces
            APWA Plan 309.




                                             12
viii. Plan 310: 48" Grate and frame. This plan is not acceptable and is deleted.
ix.   Plan 315.1: Catch basin. The City's standard plan is depicted below and replaces APWA Plan
      315.1. Curb hoods are not allowed.




                                       13
x.   Plan 315.2: Catch basin. The City's standard plan is depicted below and replaces APWA Plan
     315.2. Curb hoods are not allowed.




                                     14
xi.   Plan 316: Combination catch basin and cleanout box. The City's standard plan is depicted
      below and replaces APWA Plan 316. Curb hoods are not allowed.




                                      15
xii.    Plan 317: Curb face and inlet box. This plan is not acceptable and is deleted.
xiii.   Plan 322: Curb face outlet box. This plan is not acceptable and is deleted.
xiv.    Plan 331.1: Cleanout box. This plan is not acceptable and is deleted.
xv.     Plan 331.3: Cleanout box. This plan is not acceptable and is deleted.
xvi.    Plan 345: Concrete deck. The standard requires a 30" opening. The City's standard plan is
        depicted below and replaces APWA Plan 345. The City prohibits a 60" deck plan with a
        38"—40" opening.




                                         16
xvii. Plan 362: Cover collar for storm drains. The City's standard plan is depicted below and
      replaces APWA Plan 362. The only acceptable detail is in Section A-A.




                                       17
xviii. Plan 372: Area drain. The City's standard plan is depicted below and replaces APWA Plan
       372. Curb hoods are not allowed.




                                      18
xix.   Plan 402: 30" Frame and cover. The City's standard plan is depicted below and replaces
       APWA Plan 402. The standard requires solid sewer covers. Sewer covers with holes are not
       acceptable.




                                      19
6.   Standard Road Profiles. Each Subdivision or Condominium Plat shall Dedicate Public Streets according
     to the Roadways and Functional Classifications in the General Plan that meet the following applicable
     minimum road profiles:




                                                 20
21
22
7.   Required Townhome Internal Primary Access Road Right-of-Way Amenities. From public Street to
     public Street, each Townhome Development shall include provide one or more of the following design
     amenities on each side of the internal primary access road:




                                               23
8.   Standard Local Road Intersection Profile. The intersection of local roads in each Subdivision or
     Condominium Plat shall be configured as follows:




                                                  24
9.   Standard Intersection Profile with Bulb-out. Each Subdivision or Condominium Plat shall incorporate
     the following traffic calming design at intersections as required by the City Engineer:




                                                 25
10.   Each new subdivision shall incorporate the following solar powered, speed radar feedback signs within
      the Subdivision in locations designated by the City Engineer:
      a.   For Collector Roads:




                                                  26
b.   For Local Roads:




                        27
C.   Self-Imposed Restrictions. If the Owner places restrictions on any of the land contained in the Subdivision
     greater than those required by these regulations, such restrictions or reference thereto may be required to
     be indicated on the Subdivision Plat, or within restrictive covenants be recorded with the County Recorder
     simultaneously with the Plat in a form and substance approved by the City Attorney, the material terms of
     which may not be altered without prior Planning Commission approval.
D.   Restrictions Due to Character of The Land. Land that is unsuitable for Subdivision or Development due to
     flooding, improper drainage, potentially toxic wastes, wetlands, geologic hazards, utility easements, or other
     features that reasonably will be harmful to the safety, health, and general welfare of the present or future
     inhabitants of the Subdivision and/or its surrounding Areas, shall not be subdivided or Developed unless
     adequate methods are formulated by the Applicant and approved by the Planning Commission, upon
     recommendation of the City Engineer, to solve the problems created by the unsuitable land conditions. The
     burden of the proof shall lie with the Applicant. Without adequate remediation, such land shall be set aside
     or reserved for Uses that do not involve such a danger.




                                                        28
                                        CITY COUNCIL STAFF REPORT
Meeting Date:               March 12, 2025
Request:                    An Ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council amending Section 17.10.120 of the
                            South Salt Lake City Municipal Code to establish a Standard Road Profile for Haven
                            Avenue in the Downtown District between State Street and Main Street
Applicant:                  South Salt Lake City
Type of item:               Legislative – Code Amendment

RECOMMENDATION:
Review the Planning Commission’s recommendation and consider adopting an ordinance to amend section
17.10.120 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Title 17”), creating a standard road profile for Haven
Avenue from State Street to Main Street in the Downtown District.

On March 6, 2025, the Planning Commission reviewed the proposed addition to Title 17, held a public
hearing, and forwarded a unanimous recommendation of approval to the City Council to establish a
standard road profile for Haven Avenue between State Street and Main Street in the Downtown District.

BACKGROUND:
In 2020, as part of the comprehensive Land Use
and Development Code rewrite, “requirements for
improvements and design” were adopted in Title
17. 1 Specifically, standard road profiles were
established to ensure minimum road profiles are
met as part of a Subdivision or Condominium Plat.
On April 14, 2022, the City Council adopted
Ordinance No. 2022-08, establishing standard road
profiles for Rights-of-Way (ROW) in the Downtown
District. The image to the right is taken from section
17.10.120 and shows the road profiles for the
following streets:

      •   State Street (2100 S to I-80)
      •   300 West (2100 S to I-80)
      •   Downtown Local Street
      •   Main Street (2100 S to I-80)
      •   West Temple (2100 S to I-80)
      •   Utopia (Main to Trax (200 W))
With the redevelopment in Downtown South Salt
Lake, property platting will occur. Requiring ROW
dedication in this process is essential as it enables
the City Engineer to design and uphold ROW
improvements with uniformity and quality.

1
    Ordinance No. 2020-02
                                                         1
This Ordinance Amendment aims to establish an additional Standard Road Profile in the Downtown District
for Haven Avenue between State Street and Main Street (see image on the following page).
The proposed standard road profile for Haven Avenue between State Street and Main Street will establish a
“right-sized” local street with the following elements:

       •    58-foot ROW
       •    11-foot sidewalks with trees
       •    Dedicated public street parking on the north
       •    Two 11-foot travel lanes




In the next six months, the Market Center project will start to take shape at 2280 S. State Street, adjacent to
Haven Avenue. The project developer plans to establish a four-lot subdivision as part of the entitlement
process. Adopting the Haven Avenue standard road profile will ensure that proper right-of-way dedications
are in place for all future public improvements.
ANALYSIS: GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The South Salt Lake General Plan 2040 was adopted in 2021 and directs the development and growth of
the city through goals and strategies that support the city’s community and economic values. Additionally,
the General Plan identifies the neighborhoods of South Salt Lake, including Downtown. The General Plan
identifies the Downtown Neighborhood as a regional mixed-use center. 2 The following goals and strategies
align with the purpose of establishing a standard road profile for Haven Avenue:

       •   The General Plan states: “Public streets and sidewalks should be well maintained and enhanced for
           public use.” Community Facilities Goal 1, Strategy 2 advocates for development that provides
           services in a logical, orderly manner such that adequate streets can be provided efficiently and
           economically.


2
    South Salt Lake General Plan 2040, p. 18-19.
                                                           2
    •   The General Plan also promotes enhanced connectivity within neighborhoods. Specifically, it
        establishes an implementation strategy that mandates sidewalks in and between new developments
        along well-connected streets.
    •   The General Plan further directs support for creating planning and zoning tools that promote quality,
        neighborhood-oriented development and revitalization. Implementing standard road profiles is a
        method that ensures roadways meet the city’s standards.

Downtown South Salt Lake is a key area for redevelopment and reinvestment. As this neighborhood
evolves, the General Plan supports efforts to enhance its health, vitality, and overall integrity. This
ordinance ensures that public improvements to the ROW along Haven Avenue in the Downtown
Neighborhood are high-quality and consistent with the City’s development goals in the area.
PUBLIC NOTICE:
On February 21, 2025, Planning Staff mailed courtesy notices to the properties abutting Haven Avenue
between State Street and Main Street. Notice was also posted at City Hall and on the Utah Public Notice
Website. Staff did not receive any public input prior to publishing this report.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:

Staff recommends the City Council move to approve an ordinance to amend section 17.10.120 of Title 17 to
establish a standard road profile for Haven Avenue between State Street and Main Street in the Downtown
District.
PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:

The Planning Commission is the recommending body for amendments to land use ordinances and the City
Council is the land use authority for amendments to land use ordinances.

17.11.010. Establishment and Duties of Planning Commission.
   K. Responsibilities.
        A. The Planning Commission makes recommendations to the City Council for:
              a. The general plan and amendments to the general plan;
              b. The Land Use Map, and amendments to the Land Use Map;
              c. Amendments to land use ordinances;
              d. Proposed Application processes and the delegation of power under the land use
                  ordinance.

PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW:

Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-502. Preparation and adoption of land use regulation states:
      1. A planning commission shall:
              a. provide notice as required by Subsection 10-9a-205(1)(a) and, if applicable,
              Subsection 10-9a-205(4);
              b. hold a public hearing on a proposed land use regulation;
              c. if applicable, consider each written objection filed in accordance with Subsection 10-9a-
              205(4) prior to the public hearing; and
              d. i. review and recommend to the legislative body a proposed land use regulation that
              represents the planning commission's recommendation for regulating the use and
              development of land within all or any part of the area of the municipality; and ii. forward to the
              legislative body all objections filed in accordance with Subsection 10-9a-205(4).

 CITY COUNCIL OPTIONS:

Option 1: Approval

                                                       3
Move to the ordinance amending section 17.10.120 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Title 17”),
creating a standard road profile for Haven Avenue from State Street to Main Street in the Downtown District.

Option 2: Denial
Move to deny the ordinance amending section 17.10.120 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Title
17”), creating a standard road profile for Haven Avenue from State Street to Main Street in the Downtown
District.

Option 3: Continuance
Move to table the ordinance amending section 17.10.120 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Title
17”) and direct staff to return with additional information.


Attachments:
   1. Redlined Ordinance Amendment




                                                     4
                                  ORDINANCE NO. 2025-_____
AN ORDINANCE OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL AMENDING SECTION
2.70.030 OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATED TO
COMPENSATION FOR CIVILIAN REVIEW BOARD MEMBERS.
       WHEREAS, The South Salt Lake City Council (“City Council”) is authorized to enact and
amend ordinances establishing committees, commissions and boards to carry certain government
functions for the City of South Salt Lake (“City”);
       WHEREAS, the City Council created a Civilian Review Board for the purpose of
improving communication between the police department and the community and ensuring the
continuation of a professional and productive police force; and
        WHEREAS the City Council is authorized, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 11-55-103, to
establish rates of payment of per diem and travel expenses or set compensation for board members
of a board, committee or commission and desires to set the compensation rate by ordinance which
requires an amendment to the text of South Salt Lake City Municipal Code section 2.70.030.
       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of the City of South Salt
Lake as follows:
        Section 1.   Enactment. Section 2.70.030 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code
is hereby amended as outlined in Exhibit A.
        Section 2.     Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion
of this ordinance is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision, and
such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.
       Section 3.      Conflict with Existing Ordinances, Resolutions, or Policies. To the extent
that any ordinances, resolutions, or policies of the City of South Salt Lake conflict with the
provisions of this ordinance, this ordinance shall prevail.
       Section 4.      Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon Mayor’s
signature and publication, or after fifteen days of transmission to the office of the Mayor if neither
approved nor disapproved by the Mayor, and thereafter, publication.


           (signatures appear on next page; remainder of page intentionally left blank)




                                              Page 1 of 6
DATED this ______ day of __________, 2025.



                                         BY THE CITY COUNCIL:
                                         ____________________________________
                                         Sharla Bynum, Council Chair
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder
City Council Vote as Recorded:
       Bynum         ______
       deWolfe       ______
       Huff          ______
       Mitchell      ______
       Sanchez       ______
       Thomas        ______
       Williams      ______

Transmitted to the Mayor’s office on this _____ day of ________________________ 2025.

       ______________________________
       Ariel Andrus, City Recorder

MAYOR’S ACTION: ________________________


       Dated this _________ day of __________________________________, 2025.


                                         ____________________________________
                                         Cherie Wood, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder




                                         Page 2 of 6
                                                  Exhibit A

Chapter 2.70 CIVILIAN REVIEW BOARD
Sections:

2.70.010 Establishment of the board.
     This Chapter hereby establishes the civilian review board and sets forth the duties and procedures of the
board.

2.70.020 Definitions.
     The following definitions apply for purposes of Chapter 2.70.
       "Alternate member" means a qualified individual appointed by the mayor, with advice and consent of the
city council, to serve as an alternate member of the board.
     "Board" means the civilian review board.
       "Chairperson of the board" means a member of the board who is designated by the board annually at the
first meeting in the calendar year.
     "Law enforcement officer" has the same meaning as in Utah Code Ann. §53-13-103.
     "Member of the board" means collectively or individually all regular members, alternate members, and the
non-voting advisory member.
     "Non-voting advisory member" means a qualified individual appointed by the mayor, with advice and
consent of the city council, to serve as a non-voting advisory member.
     "Police department" means the City of South Salt Lake Police Department.
     "Qualified individual" means an individual who is at all times during their service on the Civilian Review Board
capable of obtaining user access clearance from the State of Utah Bureau of Criminal Identification.
      "Regular member" means a qualified individual who is appointed by the mayor, with advice and consent of
the city council, to serve as a regular member of the board.
     "Use of force" means:
     a.     The application of an arrest control tactic which causes bodily harm or injury or which the individual
            complains of bodily harm or injury;
     b.     Use of a firearm to gain compliance of an individual;
     c.     Discharge of a firearm;
     d.     Deployment of a taser;
     e.     Use of a chemical agent;
     f.     Use or deployment of a canine; or
     g.     Intentional damage to property of another in an apparent show of force to effect an arrest.
            Use of force does not mean compliant use of handcuffs, unless the use of the handcuffs causes bodily
            harm or injury.
      "Use or deployment of a canine" means when a police department canine is used to effect an arrest and the
canine (a) causes injury to an individual under arrest, or (b) acts in a manner that would cause a reasonable person
fear of injury.



                                                     Page 3 of 6
      "Vehicle pursuit" means the active attempt by a law enforcement officer of the police department in an
authorized emergency vehicle to apprehend a fleeing suspect who is attempting to avoid apprehension through
evasive and unlawful tactics.
    "Voting member" means an individual who is authorized to vote at a particular board meeting. A regular
member shall be a voting member. An alternate member may be a voting member in the absence of a regular
member at a board meeting if the chairperson designates the alternate member as a voting member.

2.70.030 Membership of the board.
A.   The board shall consist of seven voting members and one non-voting advisory member. The mayor shall
     appoint seven regular members and two alternate members who may vote in the place of any absent regular
     member at any meeting of the board.
     1.    If a regular member is unable to attend a scheduled meeting of the board, the member shall inform the
           chairperson as soon as possible to help ensure the attendance of as many voting members as is
           permitted.
     2.    In the event a regular member is unable to attend a meeting of the board, the chairperson shall
           designate an alternate member as a voting member.
     3.    If an alternate member is in attendance of a board meeting with all seven regular members present,
           the alternate member may not participate in or vote during the meeting.
B.   Each regular member and alternate member shall be a qualified individual who is either a resident of the city
     or a representative of a business located in the city, and who is not a current law enforcement officer.
C.   The mayor shall appoint, with advice and consent of the city council, a non-voting advisory member with law
     enforcement experience and who is not currently employed by the city or related to an employee of the
     police department. The non-voting advisory member may attend all meetings of the board but shall not cast
     a vote.
D.   Members of the board must be qualified individuals.
E.   At any given time, there shall be no more than one (1) voting member who has previously been employed as
     a law enforcement officer.
F.   The term for members of the board shall be two (2) years in lengths, except that the initial term of four (4)
     members of the board first appointed to the board shall be for three (3) years so half (1/2) of the voting
     members terms expire every other year. Members of the board may be reappointed to the board and may
     be removed with or without cause by the mayor.
G.   Members of the board shall be compensated at a rate of seventy dollars ($70.00) for each meeting attended.
     The compensation of members of the board shall be fixed by ordinance pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §§ 11-
     55-103 or its successor provision. Costs of travel, training, and per diem may be approved by the city.

2.70.040 Training for members of the board.
A.   All members of the board shall receive training, at least annually, either administered or facilitated by city
     staff or by an outside trainer approved by city staff. Training shall cover topics suggested by the National
     Association for Civilian Oversight of Law Enforcement, as well as any other topics deemed appropriate by the
     city attorney's office or mayor.
B.   Members of the board are required to participate annually in a minimum of two ride-alongs with law
     enforcement agencies in the State of Utah, one of which must be with the South Salt Lake Police
     Department.




                                                    Page 4 of 6
2.70.050 Initial review.
A.   The police department shall have one or more policies that require the reporting and investigation of all
     activities which constitute a use of force or vehicle pursuit by any member of the police department.
B.   Following the conclusion of investigations conducted in accordance with subsection A, the police department
     shall give the chairperson access to all reports, records, and other documents relevant to the investigation
     unless such records are protected under UCA §63G-2-305(10) or (11).
C.   The chairperson shall review all reports, records, and other documents received pursuant to subsection B.
     1.        Following a review, the chairperson shall distribute to all members of the board all reports, records,
               and other documents related to a use of force or vehicle pursuit incident if the chairperson finds a
               possibility that the board could find:
          a.    A law, rule, policy, or procedure applicable to the use of force or vehicle pursuit was not complied
                with;
          b.    The use of force or vehicle pursuit incident was not responded to properly; or
          c.    The investigation by the police department of the use of force or vehicle pursuit was not conducted
                properly.
     2.        Following a review, the chairperson shall distribute to all members of the board all reports, records,
               and other documents related to a use of force or vehicle pursuit incident that the chairperson believes
               warrants a discussion with the board regarding:
          a.    Recommendations of police department policies applicable to use of force or vehicle pursuit
                incidents, or
          b.    Recommendation of police department training applicable to use of force or vehicle pursuit incidents.

2.70.060 Review by the board.
A.   The board shall review all use of force and vehicle pursuits received pursuant to subsection 2.70.050(C) prior
     to the next regularly scheduled board meeting.
     1.        In addition to reviewing the records received pursuant to subsection 2.70.050(C), the board may
               discuss or ask questions regarding the use of force or vehicle pursuit with one or more members of the
               police department as designated by the chief.
          a.    Special requests regarding the attendance of a particular member of the police department shall be
                made by the chairperson to the chief of police no less than fourteen (14) days in advance of a board
                meeting and notice shall be given regarding the topics of discussion.
B.   Upon review, which shall be conducted in accordance with UCA Chapter 52-4 or its successor provisions, the
     board shall discuss and render a written advisory opinion, signed by the chairperson, of whether or not an
     applicable law, policy, or procedure was violated.
C.   All written advisory opinions shall be forwarded to the mayor and the city council.

2.70.070 Meetings of the board.
A.   The board shall meet monthly at a time and place or manner to be determined by the chairperson, or the
     mayor in the absence of a board chairperson.
B.   The board shall comply with the Open Public Meetings Act.
C.   At the opening of each meeting, the board shall allow the public to comment and voice any opinions or
     concerns regarding policing issues in the City of South Salt Lake, which shall not exceed thirty (30) minutes.
D.   At the conclusion of the public comment period, the meeting shall be closed in accordance with the Utah
     Open Public Meetings Act to discuss specific personnel matters before the board.



                                                        Page 5 of 6
2.70.080 Additional authority of the board.
A.   In addition to any review required in this chapter, the board may make suggestions regarding police
     department policies to the mayor or city council.
B.   The board chairperson may raise any other concerns regarding the police department with the mayor.
C.   The board, in conjunction with the mayor, shall recommend a dispute resolution process to resolve citizen
     complaints regarding policing efforts of the police department by July 1, 2022.

2.70.090 Quarterly and annual reports.
A.   The board chairperson shall provide quarterly and annual reports concerning the operations of the board.
     These reports shall be presented to the city council and shall be made public.
B.   Quarterly reports shall include the following information for reviews conducted during the quarter:
     1.   The total number of use of force incidents given to the chairperson in accordance with 2.70.050(B).
     2.   The total number of use of force incidents given to all members of the board in accordance with
          2.70.050(C).
     3.   The total number of use of force incidents where the board issued an advisory opinion finding a
          violation of a law, policy, or procedure.
     4.   The total number of vehicle pursuit incidents given to the chairperson in accordance with 2.70.050(B).
     5.   The total number of vehicle pursuit incidents given to all members of the board in accordance with
          2.70.050(C).
     6.   The total number of all law enforcement ride-a longs in which board members participated.
     7.   The total number of vehicle pursuit incidents where the board issued an advisory opinion finding a
          violation of a law, policy, or procedure.
C.   Annual reports shall include a compilation of the data from the quarterly reports required in subsection B
     and any other suggestions made by the board to the mayor or the city council concerning police department
     policies.




                                                   Page 6 of 6
                                  ORDINANCE NO. 2025-_____

AN ORDINANCE OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL SETTING THE
COMPENSATION FOR CIVILIAN REVIEW BOARD MEMBERS.
        WHEREAS, The South Salt Lake City Council (the “City Council”), exercised its
legislative authority amending Title 2.70.030 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code related
to the compensation rate for members of the Civilian Review Board (CRB) being set by ordinance
and;
        WHEREAS The City Council is authorized, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 11-55-103, to
establish rates of payment of per diem and travel expenses or set compensation for board members
of a board, committee or commission by ordinance in accordance with Utah Code §10-3-818;
       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of the City of South Salt
Lake as follows:
Section 1.     Enactment. The compensation rate for CRB members shall be as follows:

       Chairperson of the board - $150.00 per meeting actually attended.
       Alternate and Regular Member of the board - $125.00 per meeting actually attended.
       Non-voting advisory member - $200.00 per meeting actually attended.

Section 2.      Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
ordinance is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision, and
such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.

Section 3.     Conflict with Existing Ordinances, Resolutions, or Policies. To the extent that
any ordinances, resolutions, or policies of the City of South Salt Lake conflict with the provisions
of this ordinance, this ordinance shall prevail.

Section 4.      Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon Mayor’s signature and
publication, or after fifteen days of transmission to the office of the Mayor if neither approved nor
disapproved by the Mayor, and thereafter, publication.


DATED this ______ day of __________, 2025.
                                               BY THE CITY COUNCIL:
                                               ____________________________________
                                               Sharla Bynum, Council Chair
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder
City Council Vote as Recorded:
       Bynum         ______
       deWolfe       ______
       Huff          ______
       Mitchell      ______
       Sanchez       ______
       Thomas        ______
       Williams      ______

Transmitted to the Mayor’s office on this _____ day of ________________________ 2025.

       ______________________________
       Ariel Andrus, City Recorder

MAYOR’S ACTION: ________________________


       Dated this _________ day of __________________________________, 2025.


                                         ____________________________________
                                         Cherie Wood, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder
