                                                           AGENDA
                                             PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                                  Thursday, February 19, 2026
                                               South Salt Lake Council Chambers
                                                    220 East Morris Avenue

                   PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                    Pledge of Allegiance: Suzanne Slifka
                    Approve Agenda:       Jeremy Carter

                   STAFF BUSINESS – INFORMATION ITEMS
                    1. None at this time

                   PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS
                    1. Approval of the February 5, 2026, Planning Commission Minutes
 JONATHAN                  ACTION ITEM
WEIDENHAMER
                    2. Approval of the Findings of Facts and Conclusions of Law for the 604 E Leland
 COMMUNITY &
                       Avenue Denial of Variance Appeal
  ECONOMIC                 ACTION ITEM
 DEVELOPMENT
   DIRECTOR        CONTINUING BUSINESS
                    None at this time

                   NEW BUSINESS
                   1. PUBLIC HEARING
                      A petition to the Planning Commission to forward a positive recommendation to the
                      South Salt Lake City Council for an Ordinance Amendment amending the Standard Road
                      Profile for 600 West.
                      ACTION ITEM
                      Applicant:     South Salt Lake


                   2. PUBLIC HEARING
                      An application for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat to create a one lot subdivision located
                      at 2575 S. 600 W.
                      ACTION ITEM
                      Applicant:    Jeff Jensen
                      Address:      2575 S 600 W




CHERIE WOOD
    MAYOR

220 E MORRIS AVE   Join Zoom Webinar
    SUITE 200      https://zoom.us/j/96565559652
SOUTH SALT LAKE    Webinar ID: 965 6555 9652
      UTAH
      84115
                        IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT, INDIVIDUALS NEEDING AUXILIARY
  O 801.483.6000
                    COMMUNICATIVE AIDS OR OTHER SERVICES FOR THIS MEETING SHOULD CONTACT ELIZA UNGRICHT, (801) 483-
    SSLC.GOV                                   6013, GIVING AT LEAST 24 HOURS NOTICE.
MAYOR@SSLC.GOV
                     DENIAL OF VARIANCE APPEAL

Address:              604 E. Leland Avenue
Tax ID:               16-30-279-020-0000
Legal Description:    E 45.83 FT OF LOT 14 BLK 1 HOMEFIELD PLAT A


On February 5, 2025, the Planning Commission, acting as the Appeal Authority, reviewed, de
novo, a request for a variance submitted by Ashley Chapman and Timothy Chou (“Appellants”)
to reduce the minimum lot width requirement from 50 feet to 45.83 feet to accommodate a
detached ADU for the property at 605 E. Leland Avenue. The matter came before the Planning
Commission on an appeal of the Community and Economic Development Director’s
determination to deny the variance request. The Planning Commission, after hearing the




                    T
arguments presented in writing and orally make the following Findings of Fact and Conclusions
of Law.

FINDINGS OF FACT:

   1. The Site is located at 604 E. Leland Avenue and is in the R-1 Zoning District.
                  AF
   2. The property consists of the eastern 45.83 feet of Lot 14, Block 1 of Homestead Lot A
      Subdivision, and contains 0.24 acres (10,890 square feet).

   3. The property contains a Single-Family Dwelling constructed circa 1917, a detached
      garage constructed circa 1955, and a shed.

   4. The Single-Family Dwelling crosses the western property line, encroaching onto the
      property at 590 E. Leland Avenue by 1.54 feet.
  R
   5. The detached garage encroaches into the side setback by 1.4 feet.

   6. The Appellant proposes constructing a 995-square-foot detached ADU in the rear yard,
      approximately 120 feet from the primary dwelling, and meets the required side and rear
      setbacks.
D

   7. The rear yard lot coverage, including the proposed detached ADU, is approximately
      eight percent.

   8. The proposed ADU is compliant with all bulk, massing, height, and coverage standards
      of the R-1 District as confirmed through the Predevelopment Application review.

   9. The lot does not meet the minimum lot width standard, which is 50 feet in the R-1
      District.

   10. The property owner requests a variance from the minimum lot width to allow the
       construction of the Detached ADU.

   11. To grant the requested variance, the appeal authority must find that the five criteria in §
       17.12.010(B) are met:

                                                1
         a. That literal enforcement of the Land Use Regulations would cause an
            unreasonable hardship for the Applicant that is not necessary to carry out the
            general purpose of the Land Use Regulations;

         b. That there are special circumstances attached to the property that do not
            generally apply to other properties in the same district;

         c. That granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial property
            right possessed by other property in the same zoning district;

         d. That variance will not substantially affect the general plan and will not be contrary
            to the public interest; and

         e. That the spirit of the land use ordinance is observed, and substantial justice
            done.




                   T
  12. The Appellants bear the burden of proving that all conditions justifying a variance have
      been met.

  13. On December 5, 2025, the CED Director reviewed the variance request and denied the
                 AF
      variance and stated, in part, that the Applicants did not meet the burden of proof
      necessary to justify granting the variance.

  14. On December 22, 2025, the property owners and Applicants appealed the CED
      Director’s determination of denial.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW:

  1. The literal enforcement of the land use regulations, i.e., the minimum lot width
     requirement for an external ADU for this property, does not cause an unreasonable
     hardship that is not necessary to carry out the general purpose of the Land Use
  R
     Regulations, where appellants still have a single-family dwelling and detached garage on
     the property.

  2. There are not special circumstances attached to the property that do not generally apply
     to other properties in the same district, where there are other properties that are similarly
     deficient of the 50-foot width requirement to develop an external ADU.
D

  3. Granting the variance is not essential to the enjoyment of a substantial property right
     possessed by other properties in the same zone, where there are other properties that
     do not meet the width requirement to develop an external ADU and the property
     maintains a single-family dwelling use.

  4. The variance would substantially affect the General Plan and is contrary to the public
     interest, where the orderly growth and development of the R-1 zone has been planned
     for, and the width requirements of the zoning is part of the planning.

  5. The spirit of the Land Use Ordinance is observed, and substantial justice is done where
     the width requirement would only be reduced by less than five feet.



                                               2
   6. Because Appellants did not meet all five criteria justifying a variance, the Appellants
      have not met their burden to prove that a variance should be granted, and therefore, the
      request for a variance is denied.

This Final Order of the Planning Commission, acting as the Appeal Authority, is a final decision,
appealable to District Court. No further administrative appeals are permitted from a Final Order
and any subsequent review is to be made by the District Court. Appeals to District Court shall be
made within 30 days of this final decision.




Jeremy Carter, Planning Commission Chair




                    T
                  AF
  R
D


                                               3
                              PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
Meeting Date:               February 19, 2026
Request:                    Consider the Proposed Amendment to Title 17 and Forward a Positive
                            Recommendation to the City Council to Establish a Standard Road Profile for 600
                            West from 2100 South to 2890 South.
Applicant:                  South Salt Lake City
Type of item:               Legislative – Code Amendment

RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommends the Planning Commission forward a recommendation of approval to the City Council for
an ordinance amending Section 17.10.120 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code. This amendment
establishes a standard road profile for 600 West, extending from 2100 South to 2890 South.

BACKGROUND:
In 2020, the City adopted “Requirements for Improvements and Design” as part of a comprehensive Land
Use and Development Code rewrite (“Title 17). 1 These standards ensure that all new subdivision and
condominium plats establish a unified Right-of-Way (ROW) through the platting process.

The Engineering Department, with support from the Department of Neighborhoods and Community
Development, recently completed a comprehensive inventory of existing ROW widths to reconcile real world
conditions with codified standards. This review revealed that several corridors, including 600 West, do not
align with the width established by their associated standard road profile.

Currently, the existing ordinance identifies 600 West as a Minor Collector with two lanes of traffic, bike
lanes, park strips, and sidewalks. The image below, taken from Title 17, shows the required cross section
for 600 West.




Along 600 West, there are approximately 31 properties. Seven of those are platted, and the remaining 24
are metes-and-bounds parcels. The dominant land use pattern in this area is industrial, and any
redevelopment that triggers a land dedication is unlikely in the near term.

Staff has determined that enforcing the 63-foot ROW width is counterproductive for the following reasons:
   • Maintaining the existing 60-foot ROW width prevents a “zig-zag” ROW line and ensures a uniform
        streetscape.
   • Forcing dedication on a parcel that is already developed will not achieve the intended 63-foot
        corridor for the entire street; nothing is gained through dedication.
   • This amendment aligns with the physical reality of the neighborhood, reducing the burden on
        property owners while maintaining the road’s functionality, including two travel lanes, bike paths, and
        sidewalks.

1
    Ordinance No. 2020-02
                                                          1
The proposed 60-foot standard road profile is illustrated below:




The following table is a comparison of the existing and proposed standard road profiles:

                                     Codified Standard       Proposed Standard
    Feature                                                                            Change
                                     (63’ ROW)               (60’ ROW)
    Travel Lanes                     Two 12’ Lanes           Two 12’ Lanes             No Change
    Bike Paths                       Two 6’ Bike Paths       Two 5’ Bike Paths         -1’ per side
    Park Strips                      Two 5’ Strips           6’ (West)/8’ (East)       Increases the west park
                                                                                       strip to six feet and
                                                                                       increases the east park
                                                                                       strip to eight feet
    Sidewalks                        Two 5’ Sidewalks        One 5’ Sidewalk           Removes sidewalk along
                                                                                       the east of 600 West, but
                                                                                       maintains sidewalk
                                                                                       location and width on the
                                                                                       west
    Curb & Gutter                    Two 2.5’ Type A         Two 2.5’ Type A           No Change
    PUE/Utility                      1’ PUE                  1’ PUE                    No Change

ANALYSIS: GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The South Salt Lake General Plan 2040 was adopted in 2021 and directs the development and growth of
the city through goals and strategies that support the city’s community and economic values. Additionally,
the General Plan distinguishes 600 West at the edge of the Roper Yard Neighborhood. 2 This area is a rail-
served commercial area and is characterized by large-format commercial development utilizing both rail
services and access to I-80, I-15, and SR-201. The following goals and strategies align with the purpose of
establishing a standard road profile for 600 West:

       •   The General Plan states: “Public streets and sidewalks should be well maintained and enhanced for
           public use.” Community Facilities Goal 1, Strategy 2 advocates for development that provides
           services in a logical, orderly manner such that adequate streets can be provided efficiently and
           economically.
       •   The General Plan also promotes enhanced connectivity within neighborhoods. Specifically, it
           establishes an implementation strategy that mandates sidewalks in and between new developments
           along well-connected streets.
       •   The General Plan further directs support for creating planning and zoning tools that promote quality,
           neighborhood-oriented development and revitalization. Implementing standard road profiles is a
           method that ensures roadways meet the city’s standards.

Although the Roper Yard Neighborhood is unlikely to redevelop in the near term, it is critical to ensure that
future development is supported by providing stable, thoughtful standards for future revitalization.


2
    South Salt Lake General Plan 2040, p. 20.
                                                         2
Furthermore, this ordinance ensures that any public improvements to the 600 West ROW are consistent
with the City’s development goals in the area.
PUBLIC NOTICE
On February 6, 2026, Planning Staff posted public notice at City Hall and on the Utah Public Notice
Website. Staff did not receive any public input prior to publishing this report.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends the Planning Commission forward a recommendation of approval to the City Council for
an ordinance amending section 17.10.120 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code, creating a standard
road profile for 600 West from 2100 South to 2890 South in the Flex District.

PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY
The Planning Commission is the recommending body for amendments to land use ordinances, and the City
Council is the land use authority for amendments to land use ordinances.

17.11.010. Establishment and Duties of Planning Commission.
   K. Responsibilities.
       A. The Planning Commission makes recommendations to the City Council for:
             a. The general plan and amendments to the general plan;
             b. The Land Use Map, and amendments to the Land Use Map;
             c. Amendments to land use ordinances;
             d. Proposed Application processes and the delegation of power under the land use
                 ordinance.

PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW
Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-502. Preparation and adoption of land use regulation states:
      1. A planning commission shall:
              a. provide notice as required by Subsection 10-9a-205(1)(a) and, if applicable,
              Subsection 10-9a-205(4);
              b. hold a public hearing on a proposed land use regulation;
              c. if applicable, consider each written objection filed in accordance with Subsection 10-9a-
              205(4) prior to the public hearing; and
              d. i.) review and recommend to the legislative body a proposed land use regulation that
              represents the planning commission's recommendation for regulating the use and
              development of land within all or any part of the area of the municipality; and ii.) forward to
              the legislative body all objections filed in accordance with Subsection 10-9a-205(4).

PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS
Option 1: Approval
Move to forward a recommendation of approval to the City Council for an ordinance amending section
17.10.120 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Title 17”), creating a standard road profile for 600
West from 2100 South to 2890 South in the Flex District.
Option 2: Recommendation of Denial
Move to forward a recommendation of denial to the City Council for an ordinance amending section
17.10.120 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Title 17”), creating a standard road profile for 600
West from 2100 South to 2890 South in the Flex District.
Option 3: Continuance
Move to table the recommendation to the City Council for the ordinance amending section 17.10.120 of the
South Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Title 17”), creating a standard road profile for 600 West from 2100
South to 2890 South in the Flex District.
                                                       3
                             PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
MEETING DATE:                       February 19, 2026
PROJECT NUMBER:                     S26-00001
REQUEST:                            A Petition to Create a one-Lot Subdivision from a metes-and-bounds Parcel
                                    Located in the Flex District.
ADDRESSES:                          2575 South 600 West
PARCEL NUMBERS:                     15-24-352-004-0000
PROPERTY OWNER:                     JKRE, LLC
APPLICANT:                          European Marble & Granite, represented by Jeff Jensen
TYPE OF APPLICATION:                Legislative – Subdivision Plat

SYNOPSIS: European Marble & Granite requests approval for a preliminary Subdivision Plat for a 2.5-acre
(108,900 square feet) metes-and-bounds parcel at 2575 South 600 West in the Flex District. The
application seeks to accommodate an addition to the existing commercial building. Pursuant to the Land
Use and Development code, all Development 1 requires the site to be a legal lot prior to the issuance of a
Building Permit. 2 Because the subject site is not currently a subdivided lot, this petition seeks Planning
Commission’s preliminary approval to create a legally subdivided lot.

The image to the right shows the existing
parcel lines as identified by the Salt Lake
County Parcel Viewer:

STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommends the Planning Commission
approve the Preliminary Subdivision Plat to
create a one-lot Subdivision at 2575 South
600 West.




 EXISTING ZONING             EXISTING USE           SURROUNDING LAND USE DISTRICTS                          SIZE OF PROPERTY
                                                   North: Flex
                             Industrial/Com        South: Flex                                                  2.5 acres or
          Flex
                                mercial            East: Flex                                               108,900 square feet
                                                   West: Flex




1 §17.01.010 defines “Development” as any Building activity or clearing of land as an adjunct of construction.
2 §17.06.040(A)(1)

                                                                  1
Figure 1: Existing Parcel Lines




Figures 2 – 3: Existing Site Conditions

The following images, taken from Google Earth, show the site’s existing conditions:




Aerial view looking northeastward




                                                    2
Looking northeastward from 600 West.

Figure 4: Proposed Preliminary Plat




                                       3
Figure 5: Site Plan




Figure 6: Alta Survey




                        4
PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY

       § 17.11.030 Land use authority designations.

Pursuant to state law, the following administrative land use authority designations are made:

       A. Planning Commission. The planning commission is the land use authority on issues of:
          Subdivision and Subdivision Plat approval, vacating, altering or amending a Subdivision Plat;
          Conditional Use Permit Applications; design review for Building Heights as established in this
          Title; design review for projects on Parcels where any portion of the Parcel abuts any residential
          district; and the issuance of a Building or demolition permit in a Historic and Landmark district.

GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS

       Economic Development Goal 4.
                   Create catalytic areas to preserve South Salt Lake’s role as a commerce hub in the
                   Valley.

       Analysis:      The General Plan identifies Roper Yard as a catalytic area, and the subject property is
                      in this neighborhood. This Subdivision Plat ensures that the Roper Yard
                      Neighborhood continues to develop in a manner that aligns within the parameters of
                      the Land Use and Development Ordinance.

       Land Use & Neighborhoods Goal 3.
                   Enhance urban and streetscape design in the city to support South Salt Lake’s
                   distinct image and enhance community pride.

       Analysis:      The Subdivision Plat will ensure that any future improvements to the streetscape
                      along the ROW are consistent with the adopted standard road profile for 600 West.

ORDINANCE ANALYSIS

       ORDINANCE STANDARDS                                             FINDINGS
 17.10.120 – Requirements for Improvements & Design
   A. Compliance with laws, rules and   Petition complies.
      regulations.

   B. South Salt Lake construction           The plat does not meet the current standard road profile for
      specifications and standard            600 West. It will be compliant with the new proposed
      drawings (Road profile                 standard road profile and final approval is conditioned upon
      dedications).                          adoption of the ordinance by City Council. Otherwise, the
                                             plat shall meet the current code if Council does not adopt the
                                             change.

                                             All existing utilities are in place, and any required easements
                                             will be recorded with the final plat.

   C. Self-Imposed restrictions.             The applicant does not propose any restrictions.

   D. Restrictions due to character of       Not applicable.
      the land.

 17.10.140 – Subdivision Development Lot Standards

                                                     5
A. All Final Plats shall result in the    Petition complies. The proposed Lot complies with the
   creation of compliant Lots and         standards of Title 17.
   Building sites.

B. Frontage on a public street.           Frontage is on 600 West, a public street.

C. Street right-of-way shall be           Petition complies. The Lot is separate from the Right-of-Way,
   separate and distinct from             and all Development is to take place within the proposed
   subdivided Lots.                       property lines and Flex district Setbacks.

                                          The existing building footprint complies with the Flex District
                                          setbacks and does not encroach into the 600 West ROW.

D. Minimum area and dimensions            Petition complies. The minimum area of a new lot in the Flex
   shall conform.                         District is one acre. The site contains 2.5 acres.

E. Side boundary lines shall be at        Petition complies. The existing property lines are at right
   right angles to the street.            angles to 600 West. No changes to the boundary orientation
                                          are proposed.

F. Side boundary lines of Lots shall be   Not applicable.
   radial to the center of a Cul-de-
   Sac.

G. Corner Lots for residential uses       Not applicable.
   shall be platted wider than interior
   Lots.

H. Lots shall not divide the City         Petition complies. The subject property is located entirely
   boundary.                              within the limits of South Salt Lake.

I. Double frontage SF residential         Not applicable.
   Lots.
J. Multiple building yard areas.          Not applicable.

K. Dimensions of Corner Lots shall be     Not applicable.
   large enough to allow for erection
   of Buildings.

L. Depth and width of properties shall    Petition complies.
   be adequate to provide for off-
   street parking and loading
   facilities.

M. New Single-Family Lots                 Not applicable.

N. If Access from an Arterial or          Not applicable.
   Collector Street is necessary for
   new adjoining Lots, such Lots shall
   be served by separate local street.

O. Driveways shall be designed and        Petition complies.
   arranged to avoid vehicles backing
                                                  6
      onto Streets.

  P. Lots shall be laid out to provide       Approval of the Subdivision is contingent upon compliance
     positive drainage away from all         with the City Engineering review for this standard.
     buildings.

17.10.160(A) – General Drainage and Storm Sewer Requirements
  A. Each plat shall make adequate       Petition complies. The site is currently improved with
      provision for storm or flood water established drainage systems. The proposed plat formalizes
      runoff.                            the lot boundaries without altering the existing surface water
                                         flow or disposal methods.

17.10.160(B) – Nature of Storm Water Facilities
  A. Applicants may be required to        Approval of the Subdivision is contingent upon compliance
      carry away by pipe or open          with the City Engineering review for this standard.
      channel any spring or surface water
      that may exist either previously to
      or as a result of the subdivision.

  B. Adequate underground stormwater Approval of the Subdivision is contingent upon compliance
     systems shall be constructed and with the City Engineering review for this standard.
     maintained.

  C. Accommodation of Upstream               Approval of the Subdivision is contingent upon compliance
     Drainage Areas.                         with the City Engineering review for this standard.

  D. Adequate storm / flood water            Petition complies. The property is served by existing
     drainage will be provided to an         stormwater infrastructure. Any additional runoff generated by
     approved drainage water course or       the new addition will be mitigated and reviewed during the
     facility with capacity.                 Building Permit process to ensure compliance with City
                                             engineering standards.

  E. Areas of poor drainage shall be         Approval of the Subdivision is contingent upon compliance
     remediated as applicable.               with the City Engineering review for this standard.

  F. Flood plain areas shall be              No floodplain areas exist to be preserved upon
     preserved upon recommendation           recommendation of the South Salt Lake City Engineer.
     of City Engineer when necessary
     for the health, safety, or welfare of
     the population of the area.

17.10.170 – Water Facilities
  A. Applicant shall extend the public       Petition complies. The site is currently serviced by the South
      culinary water supply system for       Salt Lake water system. The existing connection is adequate
      the purpose of providing an            to serve the proposed addition.
      adequate water supply to the Plat.

  B. Applicant shall install adequate        Petition complies. Fire hydrants are existing and in place.
     water facilities including fire         The Fire Marshal has reviewed the plat and confirmed that
     hydrants.                               the existing hydrant locations and flow are sufficient for the
                                             site.


                                                     7
  C. Water extensions shall meet City’s       Petition complies. The site is currently serviced by the South
     standards                                Salt Lake water system. The existing connection is adequate
                                              to serve the proposed addition.

  D. Fire flow shall be approved by the       Petition complies. The Fire Marshal has reviewed the plat
     Fire Marshal.                            and confirmed that the existing hydrant locations and flow are
                                              sufficient for the site.

  E. Location of all fire hydrants, all       Petition complies. Fire hydrants are existing and in place.
     water and storage supply                 The Fire Marshal has reviewed the plat and confirmed that
     improvements shall be shown on           the existing hydrant locations and flow are sufficient for the
     the approved site plan and the           site.
     cost of installing shall be included
     on the performance guaranty.

  F. A determination shall be made as         Not applicable. All required water infrastructure is existing.
     to location or extent of facilities to   No new water main extensions or hydrant installations are
     be maintained by South Salt Lake         required for this Subdivision Plat.
     City, if any.

  G. Fire hydrants required for all plats.    Not applicable. The Fire Marshal has reviewed and approved
                                              the proposed Subdivision Plat. No new hydrant installations
                                              are required.

17.10.180 – Sewer Facilities
  A. The applicant shall install sanitary     Petition complies. The site is currently connected to the
      sewer facilities in a manner            public sanitary sewer system. Existing facilities are in place
      prescribed by the applicable            and operational.
      sanitary sewer authority.

  B. Sanitary sewer facilities shall          Petition complies. The existing sewer lateral and connection
      connect with the public sanitary        size meet the requirements for the current building and the
      sewer at sizes required by the          proposed addition. No new connections are proposed.
      sanitary sewer authority
17.10.190 – Utilities
  A. Utility facilities shall be located      Not applicable. Due to the site’s existing improvements,
      underground in new subdivisions.        current utilities will remain in place.

  B. Utility Easements.                       Petition complies. The proposed Subdivision Plat includes
                                              the appropriate 10-foot public utility easement along the
                                              property line adjacent to the public ROW.

17.10.200 – Sidewalks, Trails, and Bike Paths
  A. Subdivision shall comply with the     Petition complies. The plat does not meet the current
      applicable road profile – including  standard road profile for 600 West. It will be compliant with
      sidewalks, landscaping, bike lanes, the new proposed profile and final approval is conditioned
      curb and gutter, etc.                upon adoption of the ordinance by City Council. Otherwise,
                                           the plat shall meet the current code if Council does not adopt
                                           the change, including the addition of a sidewalk along 600
                                           West.




                                                      8
   B. Trails, pedestrian paths, and bike     Not applicable. The standard road profile for 600 West
      paths shall relate appropriately to    requires bike lanes on the east and west sides of the public
      topography.                            ROW. However, the Applicant is not required to install the
                                             bike facilities because the proposed addition will not impact
                                             the public ROW.

   C. Trails, pedestrian paths, and bike     Not applicable. The Trails Master Plan does not indicate any
      paths shall be provided in             trails crossing this specific site. Bike facilities and pedestrian
      accordance with the Trails Master      paths (sidewalks) will be improved at the City’s discretion.
      Plan.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Based upon the information submitted in the application, supporting documentation, and analysis of the
relevant code sections and general plan goals, Staff recommends the Planning Commission move to
approve the European Marble & Granite Subdivision Plat to create one lot at 2575 South 600 West based
on the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Conditions of Approval outlined in the staff report.

FINDINGS OF FACT:

   1. The property is located at 2575 South 600 West in the Flex District.

   2. The parcel number is 15-24-352-004-0000.

   3. The parcel contains 2.5 acres (108,900 sq. ft.).

   4. The property is improved and contains a commercial structure.

   5. The purpose of the proposed Subdivision is to create one lot to allow for an addition to the existing
      structure.

   6. There are no environmentally sensitive lands on site, and no impact is expected on environmentally
      sensitive lands.

   7. The proposed Subdivision will comply with all requirements of the South Salt Lake Municipal Code.

   8. Staff reviewed this Subdivision application for compliance with South Salt Lake Municipal Code
      Sections 17.10.120, 17.10.130, 17.10.140, 17.10.150, 17.10.160, 17.10.170, 17.10.180, 17.10.190
      and 17.10.200, and finds that this subdivision application is compliant with these sections, as
      outlined above.

   Conclusions of Law:

   1. The use, as specifically conditioned below, is consistent with the South Salt Lake City General Plan.

   2. The use, as specifically conditioned below, is compatible in use, scale, and design with allowed
      uses in the Flex District.

   3. The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not compromise the health, safety, or welfare of:
      Persons employed within or using the proposed Development; Those residing or working in the
      vicinity of the proposed use or Development; or Property or improvements in the vicinity of the
      proposed use or Development.


                                                     9
   4. The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not impose disproportionate burdens on the
      citizens of South Salt Lake.

Conditions of Approval:

   1. The Applicant shall continue working with city staff to make all necessary technical corrections
      before recording.

   2. Prior to plat recordation and any additional Development of the subsequent Lot, the Applicant
      must provide city staff the final plat mylar with notarized signatures of owners’ consent to
      dedication and obtain signatures of all entities indicated on the Subdivision Plat attached hereto.

   3. The plat shall indicate a 10-foot public utility easement along the front Lot line adjacent to the 600
      West public Right-of-Way pursuant to South Salt Lake Municipal Code § 17.10.190(B)(2).

   4. The Applicant shall ensure that all site improvements are installed consistent with the requirements
      of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code.

   5. The proposed Development shall meet all requirements of the South Salt Lake Community
      Development Department, South Salt Lake Fire Marshal, the South Salt Lake Building Official, and
      the South Salt Lake Engineering Department.

   6. The Applicant shall comply with all applicable International Building Codes and International Fire
      Codes and must obtain and complete a South Salt Lake Building Permit.

   7. The Applicant shall record the plat prior to the issuance of any Building Permits for the proposed
      addition. The plat shall be recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office within two years of
      receiving final plat approval.

   8. The plat does not meet the current standard road profile for 600 West. It will be compliant with the
      new proposed standard road profile and final approval is conditioned upon adoption of the
      ordinance by City Council. Otherwise, the plat shall meet the current code if Council does not
      adopt the change.

   9. All items of the staff report.

PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS

Option 1: Approval
Move to approve the application by JKRE, LLC to create a one-lot subdivision located at 2575 South 600
West, based on the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Conditions of Approval in the staff report and
enumerated on the record.

Option 2: Denial
Move to deny the application by JKRE, LLC to create a one-lot subdivision located at 2575 South 600 West,
based on the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Conditions of Approval in the staff report and
enumerated on the record.

Option 3: Continuance
Move to table the application by JKRE, LLC to create a one-lot subdivision located at 2575 South 600 West
to a date certain to allow the Applicants and Staff time to respond to specific inquiries or concerns raised by
the Planning Commission, or to allow the Planning Commission more time to consider the proposal.


                                                      10
ATTACHMENTS
   1. Proposed Plat
   2. Site Plan
   3. Alta Survey




                      11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EUROPEAN MARBLE & GRANITE SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INTERSTATE 80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I,        PATRICK M. HARRIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        License No.         286882
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    , do hereby certify that I am a Professional Land Surveyor in the State of Utah and that I hold
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            in accordance with Title 58, Chapter 22, of the Professional Engineers and Land Surveyor's Act; I further
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        certify that by authority of the Owners, I have completed a survey of the property described on this subdivision plat in accordance with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Section 17-23-17 and have verified all measurements; that the reference monuments shown on this plat are located as indicated and are
                                                                                P. I. 600 WEST STREET                                                                                                                                                                LOCATED IN THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 24,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sufficient to accurately establish the lateral boundaries of the herein described tract of real property; and has been drawn correctly to the
                                                                                           (NOT FOUND)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  designated scale and is a true and correct representation of the herein described lands included in said subdivision, based upon data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST, SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             compiled from records of the county recorders office. I further certify that all lots meet frontage width and area requirements of the




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INTERSTATE 15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     applicable zoning ordinances.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          600 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARCEL No. 15-24-352-008                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SITE                                                                                                                             BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          300 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                              BPDTM, LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Beginning at a point which is North 00°03'00“ East 961.13 feet and South 89°57'00" East 30.00 feet from a Standard Survey Monument
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           at the intersection of 6th West Street and 2700 South Street; said monument being East 967.32 feet (Calc.) and North 514.71 feet from
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (Calc.) the Southwest corner of Section 24, Township 1 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian; and running

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                thence North 00°03'00" East 426.17 feet;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VICINITY MAP                                                                  thence South 89°57'00" East 189.59 feet to the West right of way line of Interstate Highway 15;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                thence along the West right of way line the following two courses: 1) South 10°39'30" East 39.68 feet; 2) South 18°27'30" East 408.30
                                                                                                                                                                                                          S 89°57'00" E    189.59'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NOT TO SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           feet; thence North 89°57'00" West 326.57 feet to the point of beginning.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S 10°39'30" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        39.68'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NAL ND S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2/5/26




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROFE
                                                                                                                       60.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   No. 286882




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    YOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PATRICK M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HARRIS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TE        T   A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OF U

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      02/05/26                                         PATRICK M. HARRIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P.L.S. 286882




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STORMWATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OWNER HEREBY CONVEYS TO SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY AND ITS AGENTS A NON-EXCLUSIVE PERPETUAL EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OVER, ON AND IN LOT 1FOR THE PURPOSE OF ACCESS TO THE PRIVATE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM(S)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FOR THE MANAGEMENT, INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR THEREOF.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1. PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE ANN. § 54-3-27 THIS PLAT CONVEYS TO THE OWNER(S) OR
                                                                                                                       600 WEST STREET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OPERATORS OF UTILITY FACILITIES A PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT ALONG WITH ALL THE RIGHTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AND DUTIES DESCRIBED THEREIN.
                                                                                                   (PUBLIC STREET)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               INTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2. PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27A-603(4)(C)(II) ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER ACCEPTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (UDO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DELIVERY OF THE PUE AS DESCRIBED IN THIS PLAT AND APPROVES THIS PLAT SOLELY FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THE PURPOSE OF CONFIRMING THAT THE PLAT CONTAINS PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            APPROXIMATES THE LOCATION OF THE PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS, BUT DOES NOT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RST TROLLED)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T CO
                                                                                                                                                 426.17'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WARRANT THEIR PRECISE LOCATION. ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER MAY REQUIRE OTHER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EASEMENTS IN ORDER TO SERVE THIS DEVELOPMENT. THIS APPROVAL DOES NOT AFFECT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ANY RIGHT THAT ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER HAS UNDER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.1. A RECORDED EASEMENT OR RIGHT-OF WAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S 18
                                                                                                                                                 N 0°03'00" E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.2. THE LAW APPLICABLE TO PRESCRIPTIVE RIGHTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.3. TITLE 54, CHAPTER 8A, DAMAGE TO UNDERGROUND UTILITY FACILITIES OR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             °27'3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.4. ANY OTHER PROVISION OF LAW.
                                                                                                        2762.07'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             APPROVED THIS         DAY OF                                                ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 1                                                                                                                                                                         A. D. 20     , ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     408.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONTAINS:108,888 sq.ft.
                                                                                                        N 0°03'00" W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.500 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OWNER'S DEDICATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2575 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Know all men by these presents that I / we, the undersigned owner (s) JKRE , A Utah [limited liability company] of the above described
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tract of land to be hereafter known as
                                                                                                                                                                10.0'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ENBRIDGE GAS UTAH - NOTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EUROPEAN MARBLE & GRANITE SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Questar Gas Company, dba Enbridge Gas Utah (“Enbridge”), approves this plat solely to confirm that                                                          does hereby certify to have caused this plat to be prepared and does hereby dedicate for the perpetual use of the public all public roads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the plat contains public utility easements. This approval does not (a) affect any right Enbridge has
                                                                                                                                                                                  10' FRONT                                                                                                                                                                                                                              under Title 54, Chapter 8a, a recorded easement or right-of-way, prescriptive rights, or any provision                                                      and other areas shown on this plat as intended for public use. The undersigned owner also hereby conveys to any and all public utility
                                                                                                                                                                                  P.U.E.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of law; (b) constitute acceptance of any terms contained in any portion of the plat; and (c) guarantee                                                      companies a perpetual, non-exclusive easement over the public utility easements as shown on this plat, the same to be used for the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         any terms or waive Enbridge’s right to require additional easements for gas service.                                                                        installation, maintenance, and operation of utility lines and facilities. the undersigned owner also hereby conveys any other easements as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     shown on this plat to the parties indicated and for the purposes shown hereon.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         QUESTAR GAS COMPANY                                                                                                                                         In witness whereof the owner has hereunto set this                 day of                                        A.D., 20             .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         dba ENBRIDGE GAS UTAH'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         APPROVED THIS                  DAY OF                                       , A. D. 20            ,                                                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JKRE, a Utah limited liability company,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BY: ___________________________________________                                                                                                                                            , Managing Member
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Title:___________________________________________

                                                                                                                                                                                      SEWER PIPELINE
                                                                                                                                                                                      EASEMENT
LEGEND                                                                                                                                                                                RECORDED NOV. 10, 1981                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY ACKNOWLEDGMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                      ENTRY NO. 3622129                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              STATE OF UTAH                }S.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                      BOOK 5311, PAGE 1178                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           County of Salt Lake
                                                                                                                                                                        20.0'
              EXISTING STREET MONUMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               On the            day of                                 A.D., 20                  , personally appeared before me
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       , the signer of the foregoing instrument, who duly acknowledged to me that
              PROPOSED STREET MONUMENT PER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     he/she is a                                                    , of                                                                           ,a
              SALT LAKE CO. SURVEYOR PERMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Utah limited liability company, and is authorized to execute the foregoing Agreement in its behalf and that he/she executed it in such capacity.
              SECTION CORNER (NOT FOUND)
ENSIGN ENG.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MY COMMISSION EXPIRES:                                                                 ,
LAND SURV.    SET 5/8" REBAR AND CAP, OR NAIL
              STAMPED "ENSIGN ENG. & LAND                                                          60.0'
              SURV." AT ALL LOT CORNERS. OFFSET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RESIDING IN                                                COUNTY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ALL CORNERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOTARY PUBLIC
              PINS TO BE PLACE IN THE BACK OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WILL SET
              CURB WHERE APPLICABLE, IN LIEU OF
              REBAR AND CAP AT FRONT CORNERS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AS PER SSLC
                                                                                                                                                                        POINT OF BEGINNING
              BOUNDARY LINE
                                                                                                                                 S 89°57'00" E                                                                                                 N 89°57'00" W        326.57'
              SECTION LINE                                                                                                           30.00'
              CENTER LINE
              EASEMENT LINE
                                                                                                                        961.13'




              ADJOINING BOUNDARY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PARCEL No. 15-24-352-005                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE
              ADJACENT ROW LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WILLIAM & RITA PATTERSON                                                                                                                                                                                                              30                             0            15               30                       60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STREET MONUMENT
                                                                                STREET MONUMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2700 SOUTH STREET
                                                                                2700 SOUTH STREET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          300 WEST STREET
                                                                                  600 WEST STREET                                                                                                                                         BASIS OF BEARING S 89°57'00" E 2007.47' (MEASURED)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (FOUND 2" BRASS CAP)                                                                                                                   HORZ: 1 inch = 30 ft.
                                                                                (FOUND BRASS CAP)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SHEET 1 OF 1
                                                                                                                        NORTH 514.71'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DEVELOPER
                              SOUTHWEST CORNER
                              SECTION 24                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EUROPEAN MARBLE & GRANITE                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT NUMBER :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P. Harris
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14637
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EUROPEAN MARBLE & GRANITE SUBDIVISION
                              T1S, R1W, SLB&M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2575 SOUTH 600 WEST                                                                                                                                                                    MANAGER :
                              (NOT FOUND)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOCATED IN THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 24,
                                                                 EAST 967.32'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, 84115                                                                                                       RECORD OF SURVEY                                    DRAWN BY :           B. Greenleaf
                                                                  (TIE LINE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST, SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         801-974-0333                                                                                                                                                                        CHECKED BY :           P. Harris
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ROS NO.:                                                                                                                                SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S-2026-01-0011                 .        DATE : 2026-01-29


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER
                                                                                                                                                                                         SALT LAKE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT                                          PLANNING COMMISSION                                               SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY ENGINEER                                           CITY ATTORNEY                                                        SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY APPROVAL                                                                                RECORDED #
                                           LAYTON
                                           Phone: 801.547.1100
                 SANDY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE
                 45 W 10000 S, Suite 500   TOOELE
                                                                                                                                                                                APPROVED THIS          DAY OF                      ,               APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS          DAY OF             ,                APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS           DAY OF                    ,       APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS       DAY OF                       ,       APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS                             DAY OF                                         ,
                                           Phone: 435.843.3590
                 Sandy, UT 84070                                                                                                                                                A. D. 20    ,                                                      A. D. 20     ,                                                        A.D. 20      ,                                                       20    ,                                                             A.D. 20      ,                                                                                                                REQUEST OF :
                                           CEDAR CITY
                 Phone: 801.255.0529       Phone: 435.865.1453
                                           RICHFIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DATE:                                  TIME:                                    BOOK:                                   PAGE:
                 WWW.ENSIGNENG.COM         Phone: 435.896.2983


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ATTEST: CITY RECORDER                                                 MAYOR                                                          FEE$                                          DEPUTY SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER
                                                                                                                                                                                              SALT LAKE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT                              PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL                                             SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY ENGINEER                                        SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY ATTORNEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PGA&W ARCHITECTS
                                                I-15 FREEWAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I-80 FREEWAY
                                                                                                                                                                     EXIST. BLDG.




                                                               300 SF ADDITION
                                                                                                                EXIST. BLDG.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ARCHITECTS / PLANNERS
                                             EXIST. BLDG.

                              EXIST. BLDG.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I-15 FREEWAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                          201 FREEWAY
                                                     JOB SITE
                                                     2575 SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2700 SOUTH
                                                600 WEST STREET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JOB SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2575 SOUTH
            EXIST. BLDG.
                                                                                                                                                      EXIST. BLDG.       EXIST. BLDG.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          600 WEST STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NORTH
                                                UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY



                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VICINITY MAP

                                                                                                NORTH

                           VICINITY MAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PAVING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FENCE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4      08.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7'30"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    °2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I-15 CORRIDOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FENCE




                                                                                                                                                  39.68'
                                                                                                                              9'30"E
                                                                                                          S10°3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING                                                                                                                                                                                      EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ASPHALT                                                                                                                                                                                       LANDSCAPING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PAVING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXISTING WAREHOUSE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N89°57'00"W 326.57'
                                                                                                              26'-1"                                                                                                                           169'-4"                                                                                                                                                   91'-0"                                                                         139'-8"
                                                                                                     EXISTING                                                                                                                                 EXISTING                                                                              22'-0"         8"                             EXIST.                                                                                                EXIST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NEW 10'x12'                                                    SEE GENERAL NOTE 5
                                                                                                        EXISTING                                                                                                                                                                                    OVERHEAD DOOR
                                                                                                        ASPHALT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NEW MASONRY
                                                                                                        PAVING                                                                                                                                                                                      NEW 3' x 7'                                                    ADDITION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MAN DOOR                   11'-4"x20'-8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CLEAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NEW SLURRY BOSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SYSTEM BY OTHERS

                                                                                                                                                                     EXIST.                                                                            EXIST.                                       RELOCATE
                                                                                                                                                                     LIGHT                                                                             LIGHT                                        LIGHT                                                                EXISTING LOADING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DOCK TO REMAIN
                                                               EXISTING
                                                     139'-7"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXIST.
                                                                                                                                                       EXIST.                                                                                                                                                                                           EXIST.       SHED
                                                                                                                                                       LIGHT                                                                                                                                                                                            LIGHT

                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING WAREHOUSE                                                                                                                              EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DOCK                                                             EXISTING
                                                                                                                                         73'-4"
                                                                          S89°57'00"E 189.59'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ASPHALT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A TENANT IMPROVEMENT FOR:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DUMPSTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PAVING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING
                                                                                                                      110'-0" EXISTING




                                                                                                                                                                                 ADDRESS - 2575 S. 600 W.,
                                                                                                                                                                                           SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84115                                                                                                                               EXIST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LIGHT
  EXISTING WAREHOUSE                                                                                                                                                             PARCEL # 15-24-352-004-0000                                                                                                                                             18'-0"          16'-0"                                             57'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GATE TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXIST.          EXIST.                                             EXIST. EXISTING                     REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXIST.              EXISTING
                                                                                                EXISTING                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING                                          LIGHT
                                                                                                GATE TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GATE TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WALK TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX. LANDSCAPING




                                                                                                REMAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REMAIN                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                                 EXISTING OFFICE                                                                                             REMAIN                        EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LANDSCAPING
                                                                                                                                         36'-8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4                    PAVING                                                                            4


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   42'-0"
FLEX ZONE                                                                                        EXISTING                                              EXIST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXIST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PARKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FLEX ZONE
                                                                                                 ASPHALT                                               LIGHTS
                                                                                                 PAVING                                                                                                                                       LIGHTS                                                   EXISTING                                                                                         EXISTING                                           5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PARKING                                                                                          PARKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING LANDSCAPING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST. GAS
                                                               EXISTING




                                                                                                                                                    EXIST.
                                                                                                  EXISTING DRIVEWAY
                                                     47'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                               EXISTING WALK TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                    WALK
                                                                                                                      31'-7" EXISTING




                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXISTING




                                                                                                                                                   EXISTING                             EXISTING WALK                                                                                                                                                             EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25'-0"
                                                                                                  TO REMAIN




                                                                                                                                                   PARKING                              TO REMAIN                                                                                                                                                                 DRIVEWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING                                                                            EXISTING              FH TO                                                                                       EXISTING                      DRIVEWAY
                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LANDSCAPING                                                 EXISTING                                           EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                     CONC.                              LANDSCAPING                                                                         POWER POLE            REMAIN                                                                                                                    TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N00°03'00"E 426.17'                                                                                              FENCE                                              FENCE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PERMIT SET
                                                               R.O.W.
                                                     30'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R.O.W.




                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING CURB                                                                                                                             EXISTING CURB &                                                                                                        EXISTING CURB                                                          EXISTING CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   30'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                     & GUTTER                                                                                                                                  GUTTER TO REMAIN                                                                                                       & GUTTER                                                               & GUTTER
                  100'-0"                                        2'-0"                                           24'-2"                                                                                                                         171'-6"                                                                                                              40'-0"                                            29'-0"                    41'-6"                                            118'-0"                                                               100'-0"
                                                                                                        EXISTING                                                                                                                              EXISTING                                                                                                             EXISTING                                           EXISTING                  EXISTING                                          EXISTING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NORTH                                                                                           600 WEST STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                         A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FLEX ZONE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1
                       CALL BLUESTAKES
               R       @ 811 AT LEAST 48 HOURS
                       PRIOR TO THE
                       COMMENCEMENT OF ANY
Know what's below.
   Callbefore you dig. CONSTRUCTION.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SURVEYOR'S NARRATIVE                                                                               Schedule B-2 Exceptions:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I, Patrick M. Harris do hereby state that I am a Professional Land Surveyor and that I hold certificate no. 286882 as prescribed by the laws of the State      1.              Any defect, lien, encumbrance, adverse claim, or other matter that appears for the first time in the Public Records or is created, attaches, or is disclosed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of Utah and represent that I have made a survey of the following described property. The Purpose of this survey is to provide an ALTA/NSPS Land Title                                between the Commitment Date and the date on which all of the Schedule B, Part I-Requirements are met. (non survey related)                                                SANDY
                                                                      P. I. 600 WEST STREET
                                                                                 (NOT FOUND)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Survey for use by the client. The Basis of Bearing is the line between a Street monument at the Intersection of 2700 South and 600 West and a Street                                                                                                                                                                                                           45 W 10000 S, Suite 500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      monument at the Intersection of 2700 South and 300 West measuring South 89°57'00" East 2007.47 feet.                                                                 2.              Taxes or assessments which are not now payable, or which are not shown as existing liens by the records of any taxing authority that levies taxes or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           assessment on real property or by the public records. (non survey related)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sandy, UT 84070
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COMMITMENT DESCRIPTIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Phone: 801.255.0529
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.              Any facts, interest, or claims which are not shown by the public records but which could be ascertained by an inspection of said land or by making
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      The Land referred to herein below is situated in the County of Salt Lake, State of Utah and is described as follows:                                                                 inquiry of persons in possession, or claiming to be in possession, thereof. (non survey related)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LAYTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Beginning at a point which is North 00°03'00" East 961.13 feet and South 89°57'00" East 30.00 feet from a Standard Survey Monument at the intersection of            4.              Easements, liens, encumbrances, or claims of easements, liens or encumbrances which are not shown by the public records.                                                  Phone: 801.547.1100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6th West Street and 2700 South Street; said monument being East 967.32 feet (Calc.) and North 514.71 feet from (Cale.) the Southwest corner of Section 24,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Township 1 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian; and running thence North 00°03'00" East 426.17 feet; thence South 89°57'00" East 189.59                 5.              Discrepancies, conflicts in boundary lines, shortage in area, encroachments, or any other facts which a correct survey would disclose, and which are not                  TOOELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      feet to the West right of way line of Interstate Highway 15; thence along the West right of way line the following two courses: 1) South 10°39'30" East 39.68                        shown by the public records.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      feet; 2) South 18°27'30" East 408.30 feet; thence North 89°57'00" West 326.58 feet to the point of beginning.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Phone: 435.843.3590
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6.              Unpatented mining claims, reservations or exceptions in patents or in Acts authorizing the issuance thereof, Indian treaty or aboriginal rights, including
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Excepting therefrom all oil, gas and minerals and any rights appurtenant thereto, reserved in instrument dated February 11, 1995 and recorded April 4, 1995,                         but not limited, easements or equitable servitudes, water rights, or claims or title to water. (non survey related)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CEDAR CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BUILDING COR.                            PARCEL No. 15-24-352-008                                                                                                                                                     as Entry No. 6054515, in Book 7128, at Page 617 of Official Records.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Phone: 435.865.1453
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IS 1.4' NORTH                                 BPDTM, LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7.              Any liens, or right to a lien, for services, labor or material theretofore or hereafter furnished, imposed by law and not shown by the public records. (non
                                                                                                  EXIST. COMMS BOX                                                                                                              OF PROP LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                          To: JKRE. LLC, a Utah limited liability company; Old Republic National Title Insurance Company and Trident Title Insurance Agency, LLC.                                              survey related)                                                                                                                                                           RICHFIELD




                                                                                                                                                                           OHP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Phone: 435.896.2983




                                                                                                                                                                         COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FENCE COR.                                                                                                 This is to certify that this map or plat and the survey on which it is based were made in accordance with 2021 Minimum Standard Detail Requirements for                              Note: Exceptions 1-7 will be deleted on any extended or expanded coverage loan policies.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IS 3.0' WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXIST. BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                         ALTA/NSPS Land Title Surveys, jointly established and adopted by ALTA and NSPS, and includes items 1, 2, 4, 7)(a), 7(b)(1), 13, and 18 of Table A hereof.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          & 0.4' SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8.              General property taxes for the year 2025 were paid in the amount of $43,079.33 for Tax Serial No. 15-24-352-004 in Salt Lake County. (non survey                          WWW.ENSIGNENG.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OF PROP COR.                                                                                                 The field work was completed on December 17, 2025.                                                                                                                                   related)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S 89°57'00" E            189.59'                 CHAINLINK FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X                                  X                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FOR:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Date of Plat or Map: January 6, 2026.                                                                                                                                9.               Any special assessment taxes which are now or may be levied against said property by the City of Salt Lake City for local improvements or services as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EUROPEAN MARBLE & GRANITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            may be therein provided. (non survey related)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S 10°39'30" E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2575 SOUTH 600 WEST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        24.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 25.3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BUILDING COR.




                                                                                                                                                                          OHP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IS 1.4' NORTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, 84115
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   39.68'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10.              Said property is within the boundaries of the Tax District 14A and is subject to the charges and/or the assessments of said District. (non survey related)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OF PROP LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                  27.8'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CONTACT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FENCE CROSSES                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11.             WATER RIGHTS, claims or title to water, and agreements, covenants, conditions or rights incident thereto, whether or not shown by the public records.                JOSH CROOK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              110.05'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXIST. BOLLARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROP LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       01/07/26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      __________      _________                                                               ___________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (non survey related)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PHONE: 801-974-0333




                                                                                                                                                                                                               30.04'
             LEGEND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Date                                                                                    Patrick M. Harris
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              License No. 286882
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12.             Subject to all existing roads, street, alleys, ditches, reservoirs, utilities, canals, pipelines, power poles, telephone, sewer, gas or water lines and rights of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           way and easements thereof. (shown on survey)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXIST. DOOR
                                   SECTION CORNER                                                                                                                                                              6.66'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Note: For conditions of record not shown hereon as well as specific references to items in the title report, please refer to a title report supplied by, of, under   13.              The effects, terms, conditions, restrictions, reservations, and limitations (if any) of the Grant of Easement, recorded September 20, 1973, as Entry No.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X
                                                                                                                                                                          OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Commitment No., dated effective.                                                                                                                                                      2570622, in Book 3422, at Page 294, in the official records . (non survey related)
                                   MONUMENT                                              EXIST. WATER METER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXIST. BOLLARD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14.             Declaration of Protective Covenats, recorded July 12, 1977, as Entry No. 2968418, in Book 4516, at Page 874, in the official records .
       ENSIGN ENG.                 SET NAIL & WASHER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NOTE: Covenants, conditions and restrictions in the declaration of restrictions but omitting, except to the extent that said covenant or restriction is
                                                                                                                                                               WM




                                                                                                                                                                                               CONCRETE WALK
       LAND SURV.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          controlled or permitted by any applicable federal or state law, any covenants or restrictions, if any, based upon race, color, religion, sex, sexual




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             52.56'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ALTA/NSPS LAND TITLE SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EUROPEAN MARBLE & GRANITE
                                   SET ENSIGN REBAR AND CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                orientation, familial status, marital status, disability, medical condition, national origin, source of income, or ancestry. (non survey related)
                      WM           WATER METER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15.             Together with: (a) the exclusive right to use and enjoy each of the Limited Common Areas which is appurtenant to said lot, and (b) The non-exclusive




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXIST. BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   right to use and enjoy the Common Areas and Facilities included in said Project (as said project may hereafter be expanded) the accordance with the
                                                                                                                                                                          OHP

                      W            WATER MANHOLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           aforesaid Declaration and Survey May (as said Declaration and/or Condition, Covenants and Restrictions and Map may hereafter be amended or
                                                                                                         EXIST. SDCO                                                                                                                                                     CONTAINS 15,541 sq. ft.
                      WV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   supplemented). (non survey related)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, 84115
                                   WATER VALVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CHAINLINK FENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        169.31'
                                                                                                      EXIST. SDCB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16.             The effects, terms, conditions, restrictions, reservations, and limitations (if any) of the Grant of Easement for Construction and Maintenance of Sewer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.80'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13.36'
                         Y
                                   FIRE HYDRANT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Pipe Line, recorded November 10, 1981, as Entry No. 3622129, in Book 5311, at Page 1178, in the official records. (shown on survey)
                     H

                         D




                      IRR                                                                                                                                                                                                                 33.61'
                                   IRRIGATION VALVE                                                                                                               D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        17.             The effects, terms, conditions, restrictions, reservations, and limitations (if any) of the Special Warranty Deed, recorded April 4, 1995, as Entry No.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6054515, in Book 7128, at Page 617, in the official records.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AL
                         S         SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (blanket in nature)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T
                                                                                                                                                                          OHP




                                                                                                EXIST. SDCB SQR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2575 SOUTH 600 WEST
                         D         STORM DRAIN CLEAN OUT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FENCE CROSSES                                                                                                                                                                                       18.             A Deed of Trust, dated August 11, 2017, executed by JKRE, LLC, a Utah limited liability company as Trustor, to secure payment of a note bearing even
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXIST. GAS METER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROP LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                           date thereof in the sum of $1,275,000.00 with interest thereon, payable as therein provided to Bank of the West as Trustee, in favor of Bank of the West




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WAT
                                   STORM DRAIN CATCH BASIN                                                                                                                                                 EXIST. COMMS BOX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                as Beneficiary, recorded August 18, 2017, as Entry No. 12599858, in Book 10589, at Page 9848, in the official records . (non survey related)
                                                                                                                                                                           COMM
                                                                                                                                                                         COMM                           EXIST. ELEC POLE 12" N-S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS, dated August 11, 2017, executed by and between JKRE LLC, a Utah limited liability company and Bank of the West,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ERW
                                                                                                                                          CURB & GUTTER
                                                                               CURB & GUTTER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           73.21'
                     D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EDG
                                   STORM DRAIN COMBO BOX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   recorded August 18, 2017, as Entry No. 12599859, in Book 10589, at Page 9859, in the official records. (non survey related)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXIST. COMMS BOX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AY



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E OF
                                   SIGN                                                                                                                                                                          EXIST. FIRE HYDRANT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       19.             A Deed of Trust, dated September 18, 2017, executed by JKRE, LLC, a Utah limited liability company as Trustor, to secure payment of a note bearing
                                                                                                                        600 WEST STREET




                                                                                                                                                                  COMM                                           EXIST. WATER VALVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ASP
                                                                                                                                                                COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       even date thereof in the sum of $1,499,100.00 with interest thereon, payable as therein provided to Backman Title Services, Ltd as Trustee, in favor of
                                                                                                                                                                          OHP




                         U         UTILITY MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                     Y D




                                                                                                                                                                WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bank of the West as Beneficiary, recorded September 19, 2017, as Entry No. 12619409, in Book 10600, at Page 1437, in the official records . (non




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HALT
                                                                                                    (PUBLIC STREET)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                INTET CONTROL
                                                                                                                                                                     H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           survey related)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (UDO
                                   UTILITY POLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXIST. DOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS, dated September 18, 2017, executed by and between JKRE, LLC, a Utah limited liability company and Bank of the West,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              73.32'
                                                                                                                                                          426.17'




                                   GAS METER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           recorded September 19, 2017, as Entry No. 12619410, in Book 10600, at Page 1448, in the official records. (non survey related)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXIST. SDCB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LESSEE'S ASSIGNMENT of Lease and Subordination, recorded September 19, 2017, as Entry No. 12619411, in Book 10600, at Page 1454, in the
                             G     GAS LINE                                                                                                                                                                              TOG=4236.27                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       official records .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ATE LED)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXIST. BOLLARD
                                                                                                                                                                                           WATERWAY




                                   MINOR CONTOURS 1' INCREMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20.             The rights of parties in possession of subject property under unrecorded Contracts, Leases, Rental or Occupancy Agreements and any claim and/or




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S 18
                                                                                                                                                          N 0°03'00" E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                                                                                                          OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           claim liens thereunder. (non survey related)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15
                                   MAJOR CONTOURS 5' INCREMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SHED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               °27'3X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXIST. SDCB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXIST. SDCB SQR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TABLE A
                                   CONCRETE
                                                                                                         2762.07'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1)       All monuments used and set are shown on survey.
                                   ADJACENT RIGHT OF WAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2)       Parcel address 2575 South 600 West, South Salt Lake City, Utah, 84115.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARCEL No. 15-24-352-004                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4)       Subject Parcel contains 108,888 square feet or 2.50 acres .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         408.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHAINLINK FENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONTAINS:108,888 sq.ft.
                                                                                                         N 0°03'00" W




                                   RIGHT OF WAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7)(a) Exterior dimension of building is shown on survey.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.500 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7)(b)(1) Exterior footprint of building is shown on survey.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            30'
                                                                                                                                                                          OHP




                                   SECTION LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13)      Adjacent owners are shown on survey.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           18)      All plottable easements are shown on survey.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       X




                                   PROPERTY LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           19)      All insurance liability minimums have been met.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ASPHALT
                                   ADJACENT PROPERTY LINE        EXIST. SSMH
                                                                                                          S
                                   DEED LINE                                                                                                                                                                        12 5' UTILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EASEMENT                                                                                CHAINLINK FENCE                      X                        X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          X                            X                                 X
                                   TANGENT LINE
                                                                                                                                                                          OHP




                         X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X
                                   FENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       X
                                   EDGE OF ASPHALT                                                                                                                                CHAINLINK FENCE                                                  X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X
                                                                                                                                                                                       X

                         SS        SANITARY SEWER
                                                                                                                                                           X




                         SD        STORM DRAIN LINE                                                                                                                                       FENCE COR.
                                                                                                                                                                                          IS 3.0' WEST
                                                                                                                                                                          OHP




                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              X
                                   WATER LINE                                                                                                                                             OF PROP LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X
                         IRR       IRRIGATION LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INTERSTATE 80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LA
                             T     TELEPHONE LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NAL ND SU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1/7/26
                                                                                                                                                           X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                   OVERHEAD POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CHA



                      OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROFE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EYOR
                                                                                                                                                                                   20.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          No. 286882
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INLIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       600 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       X
                                   EXISTING BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PATRICK M.
                                                                                                                                                                          OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      K FEX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HARRIS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INTERSTATE 15
                         #         SCHEDULE B-2 REFERENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CHAINLINK FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         300 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OF U
                                                                                                                                                           X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 X
                                                                                                 FENCE COR.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FENCE COR.                               FENCE COR.                                                                                                                                               SITE
                                                                                                IS 0.2' NORTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IS 1.0' NORTH                             IS 2.4' WEST
                                                                                                                                                                          OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X




                                                                                                  & 3.2' WEST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OF PROP LINE                             OF PROP COR.
                                                                                               OF PROP COR.                                                                       POINT OF BEGINNING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LAWNDALE DR
                                                                                                                                                                         X                                                   X                                                                         X          CHAINLINK FENCE        X                        X                         X                                  X                                             X
                                                                                                                              S 89°57'00" E                                                                                                                                                                                       N 89°57'00" W               326.57'
                                                                                                                                 30.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FOUND 1" REBAR
                                                                                                                                                                          CO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.8' WEST
                                                                                                                         961.13'




                                                                                                                                                                                   EXIST. SSCO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            & 0.3' SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PARCEL No. 15-24-352-005                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ALTA/NSPS
                                                                                                                                                                          OHP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OF PROP COR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VICINITY MAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WILLIAM & RITA PATTERSON                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (NOT TO SCALE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE                                             LAND TITLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STREET MONUMENT
                                                                       STREET MONUMENT
                                                                       2700 SOUTH STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2700 SOUTH STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             30                      0           15         30                      60          SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 300 WEST STREET
                                                                         600 WEST STREET                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BASIS OF BEARING S 89°57'00" E 2007.47' (MEASURED)                                                                                                                                      (FOUND 2" BRASS CAP)
                                                                       (FOUND BRASS CAP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROJECT NUMBER         PRINT DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HORZ: 1 inch = 30 ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14637                  2026-01-07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOCATED IN THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER                                                          PROJECT MANAGER        DESIGNED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OF SECTION 24                                                                  P. Harris              B. Greenleaf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SOUTH SALT LAKE, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH                                                           1 OF 1
