                     Advisory Opinion #71
                       Parties: Joseph H. Florence and City of South Ogden
                                          Issued: June 30, 2009

                                       TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      A: Impact Fees
                      D: Exactions on Development

By using today’s replacement cost to calculate the impact fees rather than the
actual cost expended when the system was constructed, the City is going beyond
recoupment of actual costs as permitted by the Impact Fees Act. The City has not
considered the time-price differential inherent in fair comparisons of amounts paid
at different times. This results in the developer paying more that its proportional
share of costs necessary to assuage the impact of the new growth engendered by
the development.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                         State of Utah
                         Department of Commerce
JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
       Governor
                         OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 GARY R. HERBERT
 Lieutenant Governor



                                          ADVISORY OPINION

       Advisory Opinion Requested by:               Joseph H. Florence

       Local Government Entity:                     South Ogden City

       Applicant for the Land Use Approval:         Rafter H LLC

       Project:                                     Commercial Restaurant Development

       Date of this Advisory Opinion:               July 30, 2009

       Opinion Authored By:                         Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney,
                                                    Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                    Issues
       Has the City of South Ogden properly enacted its traffic impact fees and properly applied those
       impact fees to the developer?

                                     Summary of Advisory Opinion
       The City’s traffic impact fees have been calculated based upon the replacement cost, in today’s
       dollars, of the existing roadway system. The act permits the City to recoup actual costs expended
       to construct capital facilities, but does not permit the City to collect replacement value of those
       facilities. By using today’s replacement cost to calculate the impact fees rather than the actual
       cost expended when the system was constructed, the City is going beyond recoupment of actual
       costs as permitted by the Act. Thus the City’s impact fees, as enacted, do not comply with the
       Impact Fees Act.

       Likewise, by basing the impact fee on today’s replacement value, the City has not considered the
       time-price differential inherent in fair comparisons of amounts paid at different times. This
       results in the developer paying more that its proportional share of costs necessary to assuage the
       impact of the new growth engendered by the development. Thus the City’s impact fees, as
       applied, do not comply with the exaction law.
                                                           Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or
other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such
a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received on August 1, 2008 from Joseph H. Florence,
Managing Partner of Rafter H LLC. A letter with the request attached was sent via certified
mail, return receipt requested, to Dana B. Pollard, South Ogden City Recorder, 3950 S Adams
Avenue, Suite 1, South Ogden, Utah 84403. Ms. Pollard’s name was listed on the State’s
Governmental Immunity Database, as the contact person for the City. On November 19, 2008,
Mr. Florence sent an additional letter outlining his primary points of concern. On December 9,
2008, J. Scott Darrington submitted a letter responding to the concerns raised by Mr. Florence.
On December 24, 2008, Mr. Florence sent an additional letter, responding to Mr. Darrington’s
letter.

                                                          Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion dated July 28, 2008 with the Office of the Property
                 Rights Ombudsman by Joseph H. Florence, with attachments.
     2.          Letter from Joseph H. Florence dated November 17, 2008, with attachments.
     3.          South Ogden’s response, received November 29, 2008.
     4.          Joseph H. Florence’s reply, dated December 15, 2008.
     5.          South Ogden City Corporation Traffic Capital Facilities Plan and Impact Fee
                 Update, Adopted 2005 (Revised 2006), prepared by Wasatch Civil Consulting
                 Engineering.


                                                         Background
Rafter H LLC is the owner and developer (“Developer”) of the Hinckley Commons Project
(“Development” or “Project”) in South Ogden City (“City”). The Project is located at 5600 South
Harrison Boulevard. As part of the project, the Developer proposed to build at 4559 square foot
restaurant. In order to obtain a building permit for the restaurant, the City required Developer to
pay roadway impact fees of $25,712.76. The Developer paid the impact fees under protest.



Advisory Opinion – Joseph H. Florence/South Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 30, 2009 – page 2 of 14 pages
When the Developer requested that the City provide the basis for the impact fees, the City
provided the developer with a document titled South Ogden City Corporation Traffic Capital
Facilities Plan and Impact Fee Update, Adopted 2005 (Revised 2006), prepared by Wasatch
Civil Consulting Engineering (the “Update”). This document consists of a revision to a previous
update of a previously prepared plan. The original plan was prepared by the Management
Services Institute of Fullerton California, and adopted by the City of South Ogden in 1999. The
first update to the plan was prepared by Jones and Associates Consulting Engineers and was
adopted by South Ogden City in 2001. The Update follows the numbering system of both
sections and tables from the original study. However, not all of the information from the original
study is included. Neither the original study, nor the first update, has been provided.

The Capital Facilities Plan (“CFP”) portion of the Update establishes a level-of-service C as the
target level of City service at traffic intersections. The CFP then sets forth five road and traffic
projects:

           Project No. 1 – Extension of Edgewood Drive, connecting two stub roads,
           establishing a collector street to improve traffic circulation.
           Project No. 2 – Installation of a median at Wasatch Drive and 5600 South, to
           improve traffic flow at a non-standard intersection.
           Project No. 3 – Construction of Park Vista Drive through a new city park area.
           Project No. 4 – Installation of vehicle preemption signal controllers at various
           locations throughout the City.
           Project No. 5 – Upgrading the traffic signal at Adams Avenue and 40th Street.

The CFP sets forth a total estimated cost of the five projects at $1,526,253. The CFP calculates a
replacement value of the current roadway system of $8,555,811.68.

The Impact Fee Study (“IFS”) portion of the Update recommends that the City adopt an impact
fee for commercial use of $81.00 per trip, based upon the replacement value of the current
roadway system. The South Ogden City Impact Fee Table, not included in the Impact Fee Study
but provided by South Ogden City, sets forth impact fees for various types of commercial
development. The impact fee for a Restaurant with Drive Thru window is set at $7.52 per square
foot. According to the City, this calculation is based upon the number of trips that each type of
commercial use is expected to generate.

The Developer requested that this Office provide an Advisory Opinion regarding the roadway
impact fee. The Developer did not articulate any basis on which to challenge the fee.

                                                         Analysis
I.         The Developer Has The Burden To Show That The Impact Fee Is Unreasonable Or
           Illegal.

The Developer has requested that this Advisory Opinion examine whether “What South Ogden is
doing [with their impact fee] is in total compliance with the State Law in all aspects.”

Advisory Opinion – Joseph H. Florence/South Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 30, 2009 – page 3 of 14 pages
Essentially, the Developer believes that the impact fee is excessive, and challenges it on that
basis alone, without articulating how the impact fee in its enactment or its application violates
the law. The Developer simply leaves it to this office to review the South Ogden impact fee, and
to seek out any way in which the South Ogden impact fees may violate the law, thus providing a
basis to relieve the Developer from the obligation to pay the excessive charges.

This is simply not the correct approach for challenging impact fees. A challenge to impact fees
cannot be based upon the premise that the impact fees are illegal just because they seem high.
Such a res ipsa loquitur challenge to the impact fee has been expressly rejected by the Utah
Supreme Court. In Home Builders Ass'n v. City of N. Logan, 1999 UT 63, the Court rejected a
challenge to a road impact fee because the plaintiff “fail[ed] to articulate why [the City’s] fees
are unreasonable or how proper application of Banberry would have resulted in a different fee.”
Id. at ¶ 13. According to the Court, once a party imposing the impact fee discloses the basis of its
impact fee calculations, the burden to show that why the fees are illegal lies upon the challenger.

The Developer has not done that here. None of the concerns expressed by the Developer
articulate how the impact fees are illegal in either enactment or application. Rather the Developer
has requested that this Office review the entire impact fee scheme to determine compliance with
state law “in all aspects.” The burden rather rests upon the Developer to make its own case.

Nevertheless, in an effort to assist the parties to this dispute, as well as future parties seeking
Advisory Opinions, this Office has reviewed the South Ogden traffic impact fee, and with this
Advisory Opinion will attempt to establish one possible model or rubric for examination of
impact fees. This is done in the hope that it will assist the parties to understand impact fees,
articulate and discuss issues regarding impact fees, and resolve impact fee disputes before they
escalate.

II.        Was the South Ogden City Roadway Impact Fee Legally Adopted?

An impact fee is “payment of money imposed upon new development activity as a condition of
development approval to mitigate the impact of the new development on public facilities.” UTAH
CODE § 11-36-102(8)(a). In other words, it is a one-time charge, imposed by the owner of a
public facility (such as a road, sewer, or park) upon new development. The purpose of an impact
fee is to collect from the new development the costs of establishing or expanding those public
system facilities necessitated by that new development. Impact fees differ from taxes, connection
or hookup fees, special assessments, application fees, and other kinds of fees. Impact fees are
governed by the Impact Fees Act, UTAH CODE § 11-36-101 et seq. (the “Act”). They must
comply with the provisions of that Act.

The first question in reviewing an impact fee examines whether an impact fee has been legally
and properly adopted under the Impact Fee Act. This inquiry can involve a line-by-line review of
the lengthy Impact Fee Act. However, issues regarding proper enactment of an impact fee can
generally be distilled down into five questions:




Advisory Opinion – Joseph H. Florence/South Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 30, 2009 – page 4 of 14 pages
           (1)         Did the Impact fee enactment comply with the formalities required by the
                       Act?
           (2)         Does the Capital Facilities Plan and the Impact Fee Analysis include the
                       required information and analysis?
           (3)         Are the planned improvements system improvements permitted under the
                       Impact Fees Act?
           (4)         Do the planned improvements raise the level of service above the
                       presently existing level of service, and/or are the impact fees simply to be
                       used for operation and maintenance of existing facilities?
           (5)         Does the analysis properly calculate the impact fee, including permitted
                       costs while offsetting costs with other alternate sources of payment and
                       means of meeting demand?

(1)        Did the Impact fee enactment comply with the formalities required by the Act?

The parties have raised no question regarding whether the South Ogden City Impact Fee has
been properly enacted – i.e. whether proper notices were delivered under UTAH CODE § 11-36-
201(2)(b) or whether the enactment ordinance was in the proper form under UTAH CODE § 11-
36-202. Nothing provided to this office indicates that the impact fee enactment failed to comply
with those formalities.

(2)        Does the Capital Facilities Plan and the Impact Fee Analysis include the required
           information and analysis?

The Impact Fee Act requires that the CFP identify the proposed means by which the municipality
shall meet the demands placed upon existing public facilities by new development activity. UTAH
CODE § 11-36-201(2)(c)(i). In doing so, the CFP must calculate the cost of needed improvements
to meet that demand, considering all revenue sources, including impact fees and developer
exactions. UTAH CODE § 11-36-201(2)(c)(ii).

The Update CFP identifies five road projects necessitated by development growth.
Approximately two-thirds of the total projected cost for the five projects arises in the first
project, the creation of a new collector road (Edgewood Drive) by connecting two existing stub
roads. The CFP contemplates that approximately 80% of the cost of the third project,
construction of a new road through a future city park, will be paid by developers rather than by
impact fees. The Update CFP calculates the total cost of these system improvements, and
includes detail regarding how those costs are calculated. Nothing in those calculations was found
to violate the provisions of the Impact Fees Act.

The Act also requires an Impact Fee Analysis that identifies how the impact fee is calculated,
after considering excess capacity, available revenue and financing, offsets and credits, etc. The
Act requires, primarily in UTAH CODE § 11-36-201(5), that the analysis consider and analyze
numerous items in its calculation of the actual impact fee being imposed. The Update provided to
this Office only partially provides the statutorily required information. The Update is an update
to a previously prepared and adopted impact fee analysis. The Update refers to the previous

Advisory Opinion – Joseph H. Florence/South Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 30, 2009 – page 5 of 14 pages
analysis in several locations, and refers to tables and calculations that apparently appear in the
original Impact Fee Analysis, but do not appear in the update. Accordingly, it is unknown
whether the Impact Fee Analysis includes all of the statutorily required information. As the
original Impact Fee Analysis was not provided, no attempt was made to determine whether the
analysis contained the information required by UTAH CODE § 11-36-201(5). The Update, along
with the original impact fee analysis, may be complete and comply with the statute.
Nevertheless, by providing only the Update to the Developer, the City has provided Developer
with incomplete information under UTAH CODE § 11-36-401(2).

(3)        Are the planned improvements system improvements permitted under the Impact Fees
           Act?

Impact fees may only be imposed on those improvements enumerated under the Impact Fees Act.
See UTAH CODE § 11-36-102. Subsection (13) of that statute defines “public facilities” on which
impact fees may be used as those which have a life expectancy of not less than ten years, are
owned or operated by or on behalf of a local political subdivision, and are one of the enumerated
types of facilities. The statute specifically names roadway facilities as a permitted improvement.
Roadway facilities are defined in subsection (15) of the statute as roads and any necessary
appurtenances to roadways. New roads therefore may be constructed using impact fees. Traffic
signals, traffic control medians, etc., are necessary appurtenances to roadways, and may also be
constructed using impact fees. There appears to be no question regarding whether the planned
facilities will be owned by the City or will have a life expectancy of more than ten years.

The City indicates in the CFP that each of the five improvements, less that portion of the third
project expected to be borne by developers, are system improvements as defined by UTAH CODE
§ 11-36-102(18). The City indicates its belief that all of these projects are necessitated by
projected new development activity in the City. It does appear that each of these projects are
calculated to handle increased traffic flow, and designed to provide services to the community at
large. Nothing in the materials provided, including the capital improvement projects map
included in the CPF, compels a contrary conclusion. Accordingly, each project appears to be a
system improvement permitted under the Impact Fees Act.

(4)        Do the planned improvements raise the level of service above the presently existing level
           of service, and/or are the impact fees simply to be used for operation and maintenance of
           existing facilities?

Impact fees are not permitted to be used to raise the level of service above the level of service
that is supported by existing residents. UTAH CODE § 11-36-202(5)(b). With some impact fees,
determining the level of service before and after the expenditure of impact fees is a simple
calculation. For example, in order to measure the level of service for parks, one may just
calculate the acres of available park space against the number of residents. If the planned capital
improvements increase that level of service, i.e. increase the amount of park space per resident,
the Act has been violated.




Advisory Opinion – Joseph H. Florence/South Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 30, 2009 – page 6 of 14 pages
Calculating the level of service for traffic is not as simple. The Highway Capacity Manual
defines traffic level-of-service for signalized and unsignalized intersections as a function of the
average vehicle control delay. The traffic level of service system uses the letters A through F,
with A being best and F being worst. Under level of service A, all motorists have complete
mobility between lanes at or above the posted speed limit. Level of service F is basically a
constant traffic jam. According to the CFP, South Ogden City recognizes level C as the target
level of service, where posted speeds are generally maintained with occasional delays, while the
road operates at nearly maximum capacity. Most urban communities would consider themselves
wildly fortunate to maintain a traffic level of service C throughout their service areas.

The point at which the level of service moves between level of service B or D is difficult to tell
without a professionally prepared traffic study. Nevertheless, there is no question that additional
development, particularly commercial development, generates and increases road traffic.
Increased road traffic increases the volume on a road. Increased volume on a road can cause a
drop in the level of service. Additional roads can increase capacity, which can improve volume to
capacity ratio. Improved traffic control devices such as signals and medians can improve traffic
flow and reduce congestion. The improvements planned in the CFP appear designed to these
ends, and do not appear to be excessive or designed to greatly improve the traffic level of service
in South Ogden City. Although detecting an increase in the traffic level of service can be
nebulous, nothing has been provided to indicate that the planned improvements will raise the
level of service above that presently supported.

Likewise, the planned improvements have been earmarked for new roads and new traffic control
devices. Nothing has been provided to indicate that the City plans to use the impact fee proceeds
for operation or upkeep, or to improve deficiencies in existing facilities.

(5)        Does the analysis properly calculate the impact fee, including permitted costs while
           offsetting costs with other alternate sources of payment and means of meeting demand?

When enacting an impact fee, the City is obligated to generally consider all revenue sources to
finance the system improvements. In the documentation provided, the City considers that
developer dedication will finance approximately 80% of project #3, Park Vista Drive. The City
calculates that the remaining balance of the five projects will be fully paid by impact fees. The
Update offsets the current balance in the City’s impact fee account. The Update also credits
0.13% against the facilities costs for past use of general taxes for roadway construction. No other
offsets of contributions are considered.

Again, the information provided is incomplete, leaving it impossible to make a full analysis of
whether the impact fee has been property calculated. Only an Update to the original Impact Fee
Analysis has been provided, and although it refers to the original analysis, the Update does not
itself contain the full and complete analysis.

However, one major flaw is apparent. As stated in the Impact Fee Study, the City was presented
with two options in calculating its impact fees; the Equity Fee (Full Recoupment) option, and the
Marginal Fee (Development) option. They are described in the Impact Fee Analysis as follows:

Advisory Opinion – Joseph H. Florence/South Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 30, 2009 – page 7 of 14 pages
           Equity Fee (Full Recoupment) – This fee option takes into account the value of
           the existing transportation system and divides this value by the number of existing
           trip ends. This option provides a recoupment of costs that were invested by
           previous residents for the construction of existing facilities.

           Marginal Fee (Development) – This fee is calculated using the estimated costs of
           future capital improvements and divides that value by the estimated number of
           future trips generated by new development. Under this option, the individuals or
           activities who develop properties within the Study Area would pay for the growth
           related capital improvements.

Otherwise stated as understood, the Equity Fee option requires the developer to repay a share of
the cost of the already existing transportation system. This appears to be basically a buy-in
option, where the City is reimbursed by new growth a share of the cost of constructing the
existing capital facilities. Under the Marginal Fee option, new development pays for the new
planned system facilities only. South Ogden City’s Impact Fee Study calculates that the Equity
Fee will be $81.00 per trip, while the Marginal Fee option will be $25.00 per trip. In its Impact
Fee Analysis, the City’s consultants recommend to the City and the City has adopted the “Equity
Fee Option” for its impact fees.

Both of these approaches are generally permissible under the Impact Fee Act. The Act expressly
permits a local government to use impact fees to recoup costs previously incurred in installing a
public facility or improvement. UTAH CODE § 11-36-201(5)(c).

The problem, however, lies in how the Equity Fee option is calculated. The Equity Fee option
has been calculated using the total value of the city road system upon a replacement cost basis
rather than a recoupment basis. In other words, the impact fee has been derived from a
calculation of the cost of replacing the entire existing roadway system in today’s dollars, rather
than the value actually expended by the City at the time the roadway system was constructed.
Basically, under the Equity Fee Option, the City is requiring new development to pay to build a
road that has already been built, rather than reimburse the City for costs expended to build the
road. The City is benefiting from the “equity” in the road, because it is collecting today’s value
rather than the value actually expended. This is not permitted under the Impact Fee Act, which
only permits recoupment for the cost of existing facilities.

The City must either select the Marginal Fee option, which requires the Developer to pay its
proportional share of the costs to establish the new facilities necessitated by growth, or the City
must recalculate the recoupment option to consider the actual costs of installing the existing
facilities and obtain reimbursement for those amounts.

III.       Was the South Ogden City Roadway Impact Fee Properly and Legally Applied?

The next inquiry into the propriety of impact fees concerns whether the Impact Fee was properly
applied to the Developer. This inquiry examines the following questions:



Advisory Opinion – Joseph H. Florence/South Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 30, 2009 – page 8 of 14 pages
           (1)         Is the Developer creating an impact that the planned facilities will
                       address?
           (2)         Is the total burden imposed upon the developer by the impact fee roughly
                       equivalent to the impact of the development on the City?
           (3)         Is the developer contributing benefits to the City that offset the burdens of
                       the development?

(1)        Is the Developer creating an impact that the planned facilities will address?

Impact fees may only be collected from development activity that creates a burden that the
impact fee is intended to address. For example, constructing a new office building on a
previously empty lot would create a traffic impact on the community by adding to the number of
people on the road who must access the building. However, constructing a new office building to
replace an existing building of the same general size and shape will have little or no impact --
because traffic would not increase. The same number of vehicles accessed the old office building
that would access the new. Building a larger office building than the building being replaced
would only impact traffic to the extent that the new building had increased capacity and this
increased traffic. Thus, not all development activity is subject to impact fees. Only that activity
that creates an impact is subject to the fee.

It appears that the Developer plans to construct a restaurant where no development previously
existed. That restaurant will certainly engender a significant amount of traffic on South Ogden
City streets where that traffic did not exist before. The planned facilities, the five road projects
described in the CFP, all appear designed to increase traffic capacity, and improve safety and
traffic flow. Therefore, they can be said to address the impact that the Project creates.

The Developer expresses a concern that his restaurant Project is at the extreme southeast side of
the City. The Developer argues that none of the approved projects are close to his project, and
therefore the questions whether the projects will address the direct traffic impacts created by his
restaurant.

The purpose of impact fees is to pay for system improvements necessitated by growth. System
improvements are distinguished from project improvements. Project improvements are those
improvements intended to primarily serve a particular development project, such as a local
neighborhood road. Project improvements are generally constructed as part of the project that
necessitates them, through dedications and exactions on the project developer. Impact fees are
generally not used for project improvements. System improvements, on the other hand, are those
public facilities “designed to provide services to service areas within the community at large.”
UTAH CODE § 11-36-102(18)(a)(1)(b). They include collector and arterial roads into which pours
the traffic from numerous developments. System improvements are therefore financed by the
users: the community at large.

The Impact Fee Act requires that the local political subdivision establish one or more service
areas within which the local political subdivision calculates and imposes impact fees. UTAH
CODE § 11-36-202(2)(a)(i). There is no requirement that such a service area be a certain

Advisory Opinion – Joseph H. Florence/South Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 30, 2009 – page 9 of 14 pages
maximum or minimum size, or that the proposed system improvements be within a certain
distance from the development activity. It is presumed that the size of such service areas must be
reasonably calculated to impose the impact fee on those who will be benefited by the
improvement.

According to South Ogden, the City’s small size has led it to establish the entire city as one
traffic service area. This is permitted under the Act. UTAH CODE § 11-36-102(16)(b).
Accordingly, development activity in the City is considered to have an impact on all traffic
system improvements within the City. Indeed, South Ogden City is relatively small, and one
traffic service area for the City does not appear patently unreasonable. The Developer’s activity
will create an impact upon traffic within the City. The proposed improvements are meant to
address impacts to traffic in the City system. Therefore, the planned facilities will address the
impacts the project will create.

 (2)       Is the total burden imposed upon the developer by the impact fee roughly equivalent to
           the impact of the development on the City?

Impact fees are a form of development exaction, and must comply with the exaction law. Salt
Lake County v. Bd. of Educ., 808 P.2d 1056, 1058 (Utah 1991). UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508
authorizes cities to impose exactions on new development, within established limits:

           (1) A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed
           in a land use application if:
               (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
               each exaction; and
               (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
               impact of the proposed development.

The language of this statute was borrowed directly from the U.S. Supreme Court analyses in
Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825, 107 S.Ct. 3141 (1987) and Dolan v. City of
Tigard, 512 U.S 374, 114 S.Ct. 2309 (1994). The analysis has come to be known as the
Nollan/Dolan “rough proportionality” test. The Utah Supreme Court further honed the “rough
proportionality” rule in B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2008 UT 74, 196 P.3d
601 (“B.A.M. II”). The court explained that rough proportionality analysis “has two aspects:
first, the exaction and impact must be related in nature; second, they must be related in extent.”
B.A.M. II, 2008 UT 74, ¶ 9, 196 P.3d at 603. The “nature” aspect focuses on the relationship
between the purported impact and proposed exaction. The court stated that the approach should
be expressed “in terms of a solution and a problem . . . . [T]he impact is the problem, or the
burden which the community will bear because of the development. The exaction should address
the problem. If it does, then the nature component has been satisfied.” Id., 2008 UT 74, ¶ 10,
196 P.3d at 603-04. The “extent” aspect of the rough proportionality analysis measures the
impact against the proposed exaction in terms of cost:

           The most appropriate measure is cost—specifically, the cost of the exaction and
           the impact to the developer and the municipality, respectively. The impact of the

Advisory Opinion – Joseph H. Florence/South Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 30, 2009 – page 10 of 14 pages
           development can be measured as the cost to the municipality of assuaging the
           impact. Likewise, the exaction can be measured as the value of the land to be
           dedicated by the developer at the time of the exaction.

Id., 2008 UT 74, ¶ 11, 196 P.3d at 604. Thus, in order to be valid, the cost of an exaction must be
roughly equivalent to the cost that a local government would incur to address (or “assuage”) the
impact attributable to a new development.

     A. Is There an Essential Link Between the Impact Fee and Legitimate Government Interests?

Requiring the Developer to pay an impact fee for construction of the five planned traffic control
facilities satisfies the first aspect of the exaction analysis. Building and maintaining adequate
roadways, and control of safe traffic flow is a legitimate government interest. UTAH CODE § 10-
8-8; see also Carrier v. Lindquist, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18, 37 P.3d 1112, 1117. Constructing
additional roads and adding traffic controls are reasonable means to promote that interest. Id.
Requiring developers to pay for these facilities promotes the City’s legitimate objectives, so the
first prong of § 10-9a-508(1) is satisfied.

     B. Is There Rough Equivalency Between the Impact Fee and the Impacts of the
        Development?

The second aspect of the exaction analysis requires an “individualized determination that the
required dedication is related both in nature and extent to the impact of the proposed
development.” Dolan, 512 U.S. at 392. As noted above, the Utah Supreme Court has given the
“rough proportionality” test a two-part analysis. First, each exaction must be related in nature to
an impact attributable to the development. B.A.M. II, 2008 UT 74, ¶ 9-10, 196 P.3d at 603-04.
Second, there must be “rough equivalence” of the costs to “assuage” the impacts caused by a
new development, and the expense borne by the property owner to satisfy the development
condition. See B.A.M. II, 2008 UT 74, ¶ 11, 196 P.3d at 604. The court noted that “exact
equality between the factors is unnecessary.” Id., 2008 UT 74, ¶ 12, n.4, 196 P.3d at 604, n.4
(quoting Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391). A complete analysis, therefore, requires that both the impacts
and the costs be measured and compared.

           (i)         Measuring the Impacts of Development

The most recent B.A.M. decision stated that the property owner’s cost is the value of the property
that is dedicated. In the Impact Fee context, this value is easily calculated. It is simply the
amount of money that the City requires the Developer to pay. In the present case, the City has
required that the Developer pay $25,712.76 in roadway impact fees. In order for this Impact Fee
to pass the exaction test, this fee must be roughly equivalent to the cost to the City to assuage the
impact of the Developer’s project.

The cost to a local government to assuage the impact of development is more difficult to
measure. The impact may be read more broadly than just that which directly arises from the
development itself, such as the number of vehicle trips to and from a development. Fortunately,
the Utah Supreme Court has provided some guidance on how to gauge the impact of a

Advisory Opinion – Joseph H. Florence/South Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 30, 2009 – page 11 of 14 pages
development. In Banberry Development Corporation v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899 (Utah
1981), the Utah Supreme Court established an illustrative list of seven factors for determining
the reasonableness of fees. An examination should be made of

           (i)         the cost of existing public facilities;
           (ii)        the financing of existing public facilities: user charges, special
                       assessments, etc.
           (iii)       the relative contribution of newly developed and other properties to the
                       cost of existing public facilities: user charges, special assessments, or
                       general taxes;
           (iv)        the relative future contribution of newly developed and other properties to
                       the cost of existing public facilities;
           (v)         any credit to which newly developed properties are entitled for providing
                       common facilities provided by the local government (or a private entity)
                       elsewhere in the service area;
           (vi)        any extraordinary costs in servicing newly developed properties; and
           (vii)       the time-price differential inherent in fair comparisons of amounts paid at
                       different times.


Id., 631 P.2d at 903-04. These factors were codified into the Impact Fees Act, and are critical to
the analysis of how “the proportionate share of the costs of public facilities are reasonably
related to . . . new development activity.” UTAH CODE § 11-36-201(5)(c).

The factors expressed in Banberry are not exclusive, and “should not be read as limiting the
ability of [local governments] to deal with differing circumstances.” Home Builders Association
of Utah v. American Fork¸ 1999 UT 7, ¶ 6, 973 P.2d 425, 427. The factors are the means to
accomplish the goal of determining if a particular exaction is roughly proportional, both in nature
and extent, to the impact of the development. Other information may be equally relevant to the
analysis, including studies which project the anticipated use of public facilities, etc.

           (ii)        The Impact Fees Required of the Developer

It cannot be said that the Developer’s new restaurant construction has zero impact on the City’s
services. Any development will impact public services and infrastructure. The Developer’s
Project is not only a commercial development, but a restaurant. There can be no question that a
restaurant will generate traffic, and more traffic than some other types of commercial
development. Accordingly, some traffic impact fees would be appropriate.

In preparing its Capital Facilities Plan and Impact Fee Study, the City has attempted to calculate
the cost of the existing public facilities, set forth how those public facilities will be financed, and
the relative contribution of new development to these facilities --- covering the first four
Banberry factors. It is beyond the scope of this Opinion to determine whether the City has
calculated those costs accurately. Nevertheless, the City has attempted to make such a showing,
as required by Banberry. Regarding the fifth Banberry factor, nothing in the documents received
indicate that the Developer claims entitlement for any credit for providing common facilities

Advisory Opinion – Joseph H. Florence/South Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 30, 2009 – page 12 of 14 pages
elsewhere in the service area. Likewise with the sixth Banberry factor. The City has not claimed
any extraordinary costs in servicing the Development, apart from those costs necessary to serve
the City as a whole.

It is the last of the Banberry factors that presents a problem. The City is obligated by Banberry
and the statute to consider “the time-price differential inherent in fair comparisons of amounts
paid at different times.” As discussed above, the City was presented with two options in
determining its impact fees; the Equity Fee (Full Recoupment) option, and the Marginal Fee
(Development) option. The City has adopted the “Equity Fee Option” for its impact fees.

However, as discussed above, the City has calculated this option using the total value of the city
road system upon a replacement cost basis, at today’s dollars, rather recouping amounts actually
expended when the roads were built. This approach falls afoul of the exaction law. The Banberry
factors require the City to consider the time-price differential of values expended at different
times. The City does not appear to have done this.

Accordingly, the impact fee imposed is not roughly equivalent to the impact of the development.
The Development will have some impact, and therefore some impact fee is appropriate, but the
South Ogden City impact fee as calculated requires the Developer to pay today’s prices for
replacement rather than the cost of assuaging the impact (the cost of building the road). The
traffic impact fee is impermissible in its current form.

As stated above, the City must either select the Marginal Fee option, which requires the
Developer to pay its proportional share of the costs to establish the new facilities necessitated by
growth, or the City must recalculate the recoupment option to consider the time-price differential
of values expended at different times.

 (3)       Is the Developer contributing benefits to the City that offset the burdens of the
           Development?

The final question concerns whether the Developer has conferred benefits to the City that offset
the burdens created by the Development, thus entitling the Developer to an offset of impact fees.
Nothing provided in the materials indicates that the Developer has provided to the City any
benefits calculated to offset the increased traffic burden created by the Project. Therefore, the
Developer is not entitled to this type of offset to its impact fees.

                                                         Conclusion
South Ogden City must revise its impact fees. The current system does not comply with the
Impact Fees Act, nor does it comply with the exaction law.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

Advisory Opinion – Joseph H. Florence/South Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 30, 2009 – page 13 of 14 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Dana B. Pollard
              South Ogden City Recorder
              3950 S Adams Avenue, Suite 1
              Ogden, Utah 84403

On this 30th day of July, 2009, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
