                       Advisory Opinion #8
             Parties: Kim C. Datwyler, Neighborhood Nonprofit Housing Corporation
                                           and Smithfield City
                                       Issued: September 7, 2006

                                         TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      D: Exactions on Development
                      E: Entitlement to Application Approval (Vesting)
                      H: Compelling, Countervailing Public Interests

Dedication of property for a park must satisfy “rough proportionality” analysis.
Since the application appeared to satisfy the City’s ordinances, requiring
additional access to the City’s road system would need to be justified by showing
that the extra access was necessary as a compelling, countervailing interest.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                                      State of Utah
                                      Department of Commerce
  JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
                                      OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor



                                                                    Advisory Opinion


                  Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                Kim C. Datwyler
                                                                                Neighborhood Nonprofit Housing
                                                                                Corporation
                  Local Government Entity:                                      Smithfield City

                  Applicant for the Land Use Approval:                          Neighborhood Nonprofit Housing
                                                                                Corporation and Compass Point Homes,
                                                                                Inc.

                  Project:                                                      Park Place Subdivision
                                                                                A 90 lot subdivision in the R‐1 zone at
                                                                                approx. 600 West 100 North

                  Date of this Advisory Opinion:                                September 7, 2006

                  Issue: In reviewing the application for approval for the Park Place Subdivision,
                  did the Smithfield Planning Commission impose illegal conditions or exactions?

                  Review:

                  The request for an advisory opinion in this matter was received by the Office of the
                  Property Rights Ombudsman on Wednesday, July 31, 2006. A letter with the request
                  attached was sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to Smithfield City on
                  July 31, 2006. The letter was addressed to James Gass, City Manager, at the address
                  shown on the Governmental Immunity Act Database at the Utah State Department
                  of Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code as required by
                  statute.

                  During the preparation of this opinion, I discussed the matter with Kim Datwyler,
                  representative of the applicant. I also met with Jim Gass, Smithfield City Manager
                  at the City offices in Smithfield on August 24, 2006 and made a follow‐up phone call


160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
                                                                                  -2-

to Charlene Izatt, the Deputy City Recorder, about the applicable ordinances related
to open space and access issues.

The following documents were reviewed prior to completing this advisory opinion:

   1.     Proposed subdivision plat for Park Place Subdivision.
   2.     Schematic drawing of proposed access road superimposed on an aerial
          photograph of some lands adjoining the proposed subdivision.
   3.     Minutes of the Smithfield Planning Commission meeting held June 21,
          2006.
   4.     Title 16 (Subdivision Regulations) and Title 17 (Zoning Regulations) of the
          Smithfield City Ordinances as found online at www.smithfieldcity.org.

Assumed facts:

   1.     The individual who requested this advisory opinion represents an
          applicant for approval of the Park Place Subdivision within the city limits
          of Smithfield City.
   2.     Under the Smithfield City Ordinances, the applicant for a major
          subdivision approval must receive preliminary plat approval from the
          planning commission prior to preparing a final plat. (Smithfield
          Ordinances at 16.09.040)
   3.     After approval of the preliminary plat, the applicant is to prepare a final
          plat for review by the Planning Commission, which will make a
          recommendation to the Smithfield City Council which must approve the
          final plat prior to its being recorded and the subdivision approval process
          being completed. (SO 16.12.070)
   4.     At a meeting held on June 21, 2006, the Smithfield Planning Commission
          acted to approve the preliminary plat for the Park Place Subdivision,
          subject to three conditions.
   5.     The first condition imposed was that the “plat be amended to show
          pedestrian access to 300 North east to Saddleback Road.”
   6.     The second condition imposed was “continue to encourage development
          of a park within the development so that it can be more easily maintained
          by the City.”
   7.     The third condition imposed was “reasonable efforts be made to connect
          200 North headed east to 400 West so the Development can be connected
          to the City grid at both it’s south and east ends.”
                                                                                   -3-

Analysis:

Right to Approval:

According to Utah Code Annotated, Section 10‐9a‐509(1)(a):

      An applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the
      application conforms to the requirements of an applicable land use ordinance
      in effect when a complete application is submitted and all fees have been
      paid, unless:
      (i) the land use authority, on the record, finds that a compelling,
      countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by approving the
      application; or
      (ii) in the manner provided by local ordinance and before the application is
      submitted, the municipality has formally initiated proceedings to amend its
      ordinances in a manner that would prohibit approval of the application as
      submitted.

In approving the preliminary plat that was proposed by the applicants for Park
Place Subdivision, the Planning Commission is deemed to have concluded that the
proposed plat conforms to the requirements of the applicable land use ordinances.
The Smithfield Ordinances provide at Section 16.09.040 that the Planning
Commission shall review any proposed major subdivision preliminary plats and
visit the subdivision site. “Following the review, the planning commission shall
determine compliance with the standards and criteria set forth in this title and all
other ordinances of Smithfield City, including, but not limited to, the land use
ordinance, general plan and master street plan.”

The motion to approve the plat at the meeting held June 21, 2006 represents the
Planning Commission’s conclusion that the proposed subdivision conformed to the
applicable ordinances, with the conditions imposed. I will therefore assume that
the Planning Commission’ s approval of the preliminary plat has resolved any issues
not logically connected to the conditions imposed.

Condition One: Pedestrian Access

The Smithfield Ordinances provide:

      Dedicated walkways through the block may be required where access is
      necessary to a point designated by the planning commission. Such walkways
                                                                                     -4-

       shall be a minimum of five feet (5ʹ) in width, but may be required to be wider
       where determined necessary by the planning commission.

SO 16.16.010(D). This would seem to allow reasonable requirements for pedestrian
corridors, although there are no findings in the record that would provide the
substantial evidence to sustain this requirement.

       When a land use decision is made as an exercise of administrative or quasi‐
       judicial powers, however, we have held that such decisions are not arbitrary
       and capricious if they are supported by ʺsubstantial evidence.ʺ Xanthos v. Bd.
       of Adjustment of Salt Lake City, 685 P.2d 1032, 1034‐35 (Utah 1984) (reviewing
       board of adjustment decision as an administrative act and employing
       substantial evidence standard).

Bradley v. Payson City Corp., 2003 UT 16. See also U.C.A. 10‐9a‐801(3)(a). Since this is
a preliminary approval, the applicant may request that evidence be provided to
justify this requirement in the final plat, or comply with this condition if it does not
object to providing the pathway. My impression is that the applicants do not object
to the pedestrian access. This is the only mandatory condition imposed in the plat
approval.

Condition Two: Park Requirements

This condition is not clear to me in that it seems only to “encourage development of
a park within the development” rather than to require the dedication of a park to the
City. On the other hand, it also indicates that the justification for this requirement is
“so it can be more easily maintained by the City.” The City would be unlikely to
maintain a private park, I will assume, so I am not sure whether the expectation is
that the final plat will include a public park within the subdivision or a private one.

In any event, the condition is worded tentatively, and it could be assumed that the
Planning Commission was not sure that it could require a park as a condition of
development. Perhaps the goal was to only encourage a park, and in that event I
hope my comments below are not taken to be an overreaction to this condition.

I find no provision in the subdivision ordinance nor the zoning ordinance that
allows or directs the City to require that subdivisions include land for parks, either
privately or publicly owned. As discussed above, if a land use application conforms
to the applicable ordinances it must be approved. There is no ability by the City to
impose park dedication requirements or even a requirement that a private park be
                                                                                     -5-

provided in a development if the ordinance does not authorize such a requirement.
Open space standards are common in many local ordinances, but I did not find any
in the Smithfield ordinances in my review that would relate to traditional
subdivision as opposed to planned unit developments.

If this condition anticipates the dedication of a park to public ownership rather than
just a private open space, then it is doubly problematic. The dedication of private
land to public use is an area of significant scrutiny by the courts. Often it is required
that the applicant for some development approval must deed land for a park, road,
open space, trail, or other public purpose as a condition of development. Sometimes
this dedication can take the form of a surface or underground easement or the duty
to allow the public to enter upon lands formerly considered to be private with
restricted access.

Real estate dedications can be given the most scrutiny by the courts and held to
higher standards of review than other conditions and exactions on land use
approvals. See Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S. 374 (1994), requiring the dedication of
land for flood control and a bike path; and Nollan v. California Coastal Comm. 483 U.S.
825 (1987), requiring the dedication of an easement for public access across beach
property to the state in order to obtain a building permit for a residence. A recent
Utah case, BAM Development v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT App. 34 and 2006 UT 2,
reemphasized the need for individualized determinations of fairness in a situation
where the county demanded land to widen a busy street to accommodate future
county road needs.

A property owner can refuse to dedicate private land to public use unless there is an
individualized determination by the municipality involved that the dedication is
both appropriate and proportionate. The state statute provides:

       A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development
       proposed in a land use application if:
       (1) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
       each exaction; and
       (2) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
       impact of the proposed development.

U.C.A. 10‐9a‐508. If the City had a provision in its ordinances requiring all
development to provide park space or pay an impact fee for parks, it would likely be
legal if that provision was based on proportionality and impact.
                                                                                   -6-

If a land use approval does require a dedication without that proof of uniformity
and proportionality, the land demanded must be compensated for. An example of
an appropriate approach to such an issue is found in the Smithfield ordinances.
Under the terms of SO 16.12.070(B) related to accessways along canals, rivers, and
streams, it is noted that pathways along waterways can be required as a condition of
final plat approval, but the City will pay fair market value for the right of way thus
acquired.

As I stated above, it is likely that this review of the law does not provide any
information to the City officials than they already knew, and the condition was
worded tentatively to encourage the development of a park where those involved in
reviewing the subdivision as proposed knew they could not mandate open space in
this particular development.

Condition Three: Road Access

In this condition, the Planning Commission imposes a requirement that the
applicant make reasonable efforts to acquire land beyond the subdivision
boundaries to connect the development through an adjoining block to another City
street.

There is no evidence in the record of this matter that the subdivision plat as
proposed does not provide the access required by the City ordinances and the
relevant provisions of the fire code or other applicable rules and regulations.

A review of the City ordinances does not yield any specific enabling language
allowing the Planning Commission to require alternative or more preferable access
when the applicant’s proposed access complies with the applicable ordinances.
Indeed, the state statute cited above prohibits the denial of an application that
conforms with local codes.

There is no substantial evidence in the record to demonstrate any failing of the
access to the subdivision as originally proposed to meet the ordinances or to provide
any threat to health or safety. No compelling, countervailing public interest has
been noted that would justify imposing a requirement outside of the provisions of
the ordinances.

Since the creation of a new city street across lands adjoining the proposed
development requires the acquisition and dedication of land to the City, it would be
                                                                                       -7-

subject to special scrutiny by the Courts if challenged, just as would the requirement
to dedicate a park as discussed above.

Local governments can only operate within the boundaries of existing ordinances
and state statute, and cannot impose requirements based on the preferences of
decision makers where no discretion is provided for in the applicable ordinances.
Although the condition as stated by the Planning Commission for Park Place is only
that the developer make reasonable efforts to acquire the desired access, even that
condition is illegal because the requirement for an alternate access is not authorized
by the ordinances. There is no evidence in the record that the City has done the
analysis to show that the imposition of this burden is both appropriate and
proportionate as required by the state law cited above. The applicant does not need
to comply with this condition.

As with the condition related to a park, the Planning Commission worded this
requirement in a tentative manner, imposing on the applicant a duty to make
“reasonable efforts” to extend 200 North to the East. This is most easily explained
by assuming that the Commissioners knew that they could not impose this
condition as an absolute mandate, which is a conclusion that I agree with.

Conclusion:

The condition to require a pedestrian access may or may not be legally imposed on
final plat approval, depending on whether or not there is substantial evidence in the
record to support this condition. If the applicant wishes to provide it, the issue is
moot.

A condition to require the development of a park would illegal since there is no
requirement in the ordinance for the provision of parks or open spaces in
subdivisions. The subdivision cannot be denied if the applicant refuses to provide
the park. If the anticipated result of the park condition is that the applicant might be
required to deed a park to the City, this condition would also be illegal under state
statute and requires compensation under both the state and federal Constitutions.
This is so because the condition is not supported by an analysis in the record of the
burdens created by the development, how the proposed park addresses those
burdens, and whether the scale of the park requirement is proportionate to the
burdens created by the development.

The condition to require the applicant to expend “reasonable efforts” to create an
alternative access to the subdivision is illegal in that the local ordinances do not
                                                                                     -8-

allow for the imposition of alternative access requirements when the access as
proposed by the applicant complies with the ordinances. A requirement to acquire
and dedicate land to the City is also illegal absent the required analysis described in
the preceding paragraph for the exaction of land dedications in the development
process. The subdivision could not be denied if the sole reason for denial is that the
applicant refuses to attempt to connect 200 North Street to 400 West Street as a
condition of development.

By its preliminary approval, the Planning Commission has found that the
application as submitted complies with the applicable ordinances. The conditions
imposed, particularly conditions two and three, would be illegal. The Planning
Commission should review the final plat for the project without regard to conditions
two or three, and without regard to condition one unless the applicant waives any
objection to that condition or unless the City provides substantial evidence in the
record to support that requirement.




Craig M. Call, Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, 13‐42‐205. It does
not constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or
policy of the State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions
expressed are arrived at based on a summary review of the factual situation
involved in this specific matter, and may or may not reflect the opinion that might
be expressed in another matter where the facts and circumstances are different or
where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his
understanding of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this
matter. Anyone with an interest in these issues who must protect that interest
should seek the advice of his or her own legal counsel and not rely on this
document as a definitive statement of how to protect or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is
not binding on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue
that is the subject of an advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation,
                                                                                -9-

and that cause of action is litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is
resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the substantially prevailing party
on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees and court costs
pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the delivery
of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the
opinions, writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property
Rights Ombudsman are not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in
small claims court, a judicial review of arbitration, or in determining costs and
legal fees as explained above.
                                                                                - 10 -

                             MAILING CERTIFICATE



Utah Code Annotated Section 13‐43‐206(10)(b) requires delivery of the attached
advisory opinion to the government entity involved in this matter in a manner
that complies with U.C.A. Section 63‐30d‐401 (Notices Filed Under the
Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to
the agent designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of
the governmental entity in the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained
by the Utah State Department of Commerce, Division of Corporations and
Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database
is as follows:

      James Gass, City Manager
      Smithfield City
      69 North Main Street
      Smithfield, UT 84335

On this Seventh day of September, 2006, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion
to be delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United
States Postal Service, postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and
addressed to the person shown above.




                    _______________________________________________________
                    Craig M. Call, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
