                     Advisory Opinion #27
                           Parties: Fred & Janet Love and Salt Lake City
                                        Issued: December 7, 2007

                                        TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      K: Compliance with Mandatory Land Use Ordinances
                      R(v): Other Topics (Interpretation of Ordinances)

City’s interpretation of ordinance is entitled to deference because of the expertise
and specialized knowledge of City staff. The City’s approach avoids disputes
because it ensures a greater degree of certainty for property owners.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                                      State of Utah
                                      Department of Commerce
  JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
                                      OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor



                                                             ADVISORY OPINION


            Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                 Fred and Janet Lowe

            Local Government Entity:                                       Salt Lake City

            Applicant for the Land Use Approval:                           Rolando Bazail & Sarah Barber

            Project:                                                       Single Family Residence

            Date of this Advisory Opinion:                                 December 7, 2007

            Opinion Authored By:                                           Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney, Office of the Property
                                                                           Rights Ombudsman


                                                                           Issues
            Did the City correctly apply its ordinances when calculating the setback for a new home?



                                                      Summary of Advisory Opinion
            The City’s approach to how it calculates setbacks is justifiable and should not be abandoned or
            overturned. While the interpretation advocated by the property owners is equally valid, the City
            is entitled to deference in how it administers and interprets its ordinances. The City’s
            interpretation is plausible under the ordinance’s plain language, fulfills its purpose, reduces
            disputes, and promotes greater certainty for property owners. For these reasons, there is no
            reason to abandon or overturn the City’s interpretation.


                                                                          Review
            A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
            decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of §13-43-205 of the Utah
            Code. The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust


160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from Fred and Janet Lowe on October 23,
2007. A letter with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return receipt requested, to
Christine Meeker, Salt Lake City Recorder, at 415 S. State, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. The
return receipt was signed and was received on November 1, 2007, indicating that the City had
received it. A response was received from the Salt Lake City Attorney’s Office on November 29,
2007.


                                           Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

   1.      Request for an Advisory Opinion filed October 23, 2007 with the Office of the
           Property Rights Ombudsman by Fred and Janet Lowe, including exhibits.
   2.      Response letter from Lynn Pace, Deputy Salt Lake City Attorney, received November
           29, 2007.
   3.      Letter from Scott Sabey, Counsel for the Property Owners, dated November 16, 2007.

                                   Statutes and Ordinances

   1.       Sections 18.64.040 and 21A.24.070 of the Salt Lake City Code.

                                        Assumed Facts

For the purposes of the Opinion, it is assumed that the setbacks advanced by the parties have
been accurately determined based on correct measurements. There has been no suggestion that
the calculations are incorrect.



                                         Background
Rolando Bazail and Sarah Barber own a ¼ acre parcel located at 1137 S. Douglas Street in Salt
Lake City (the “Subject Parcel”). The Subject Parcel had an existing home and a separate garage
when the owners purchased it. They decided to demolish that home and garage and construct a
new single family residence on the property. Douglas Street is a residential neighborhood, and
all other lots in the immediate vicinity also have homes on them. The area is zoned for single-
family residences.
Section 21A.24.070 of the Salt Lake City Code governs new construction, and imposes
minimum yard requirements, including setbacks for front yards:

           The minimum depth of the front yard for all principal buildings shall be equal to
           the average of the front yards of existing buildings within the block face. Where
           there are no existing buildings within the block face, the minimum depth shall be
           twenty feet (20’). Where the minimum front yard is specified in the recorded
           subdivision plat, the requirement specified on the plat shall prevail. For buildings
           legally existing on April 12, 1995, the required front yard shall be no greater than
           the established setback line of the building.

Salt Lake City Code, § 21A.24.070 (E)(1). The City, applying this subsection, determined the
minimum front yard setback for the new home on the Subject Parcel by averaging the front yards
of the seven homes on that side of Douglas Street. 1 The City did not include the setback for the
existing home (the home that would be demolished). The average front yard setback of the seven
homes was 25 feet. The City approved the property owner’s building permit, with a front yard
setback of 25 feet.

Fred and Janet Lowe, who own the home to the north of the Parcel, disagreed with how the City
applied the setback ordinance. They contend that the ordinance requires that the City include the
setback of the old home on the Subject Parcel along with the other homes on the street.
Including the Parcel’s setback would increase the average front yard by seven feet. 2 The Lowe’s
object to the City’s approach, because they feel that if the new home were built at the 25 foot
setback, their home would be “cut off” from the remainder of the street. On the other hand, the
additional seven feet would make the setback of the new home nearly equal to the Lowe’s front
yard. 3

A third possible approach complicates the dispute even further. The Subject Parcel had a garage
located 3 feet from the front lot line. Section 21A.24.070(E)(1) requires that the setback be
based on the average front yards for existing buildings on the block face. Since the garage was
an “existing building,” the setback could be calculated using it as a reference instead of the
home, by a strict interpretation of the ordinance. Using the 3 foot front yard reduces the setback
for the new home to about 19.5 feet. This approach was not used in the calculation of the
setback, and neither party advocates it.

The Lowes filed an appeal of the City’s interpretation of § 21A.24.070(E)(1), which was
considered by the Salt Lake City Board of Adjustment. While that appeal was pending, the
Lowes also filed their request for this Advisory Opinion. The Board of Adjustment has since met
and upheld the City’s interpretation. The City’s response was not received by the Property Rights
Ombudsman until after the Board of Adjustment issued its decision. In the meantime,
construction on the new home has proceeded.


1
  A "block face" is all of the lots facing one side of a street between two intersecting streets. See Salt Lake City
Code, § 21A.62.040. As applied in this situation, the “block face” is all of the parcels on the same side of the street
as the proposed construction.
2
    The front yard of the home originally built on the parcel was 85 feet deep.
3
    The Lowe’s front yard is 34 feet deep. Their home is located on the street corner.
                                                   Analysis
The question to be addressed by this Opinion is whether or not Salt Lake City correctly applied
and interpreted § 21A.24.070(E)(1) of its zoning code. Specifically, should the setback
calculation required by that section include the parcel upon which a new building is proposed, or
may the City ignore buildings on that parcel?

        A. Standards of Statutory Interpretation

Statutory interpretation begins with the language of the ordinance. See Biddle v. Washington
Terrace City, 1999 UT 110, ¶ 14, 993 P.2d 875, 879. The “primary goal . . . is to give effect to
the legislative intent, as evidenced by the plain language, in light of the purpose the statute was
meant to achieve.” Foutz v. City of South Jordan, 2004 UT 75 ¶ 11, 100 P.3d 1171, 1174.
Statutes should be construed so that "all parts thereof [are] relevant and meaningful." Perrine v.
Kennecott Mining Corp., 911 P.2d 1290, 1292 (Utah 1996). Furthermore, it must be presumed
“that each term included in the ordinance was used advisedly.” Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004
UT 98, ¶30, 104 P.3d 1208, 1216.

The expertise of local zoning authorities bestows a degree of validity upon their interpretation of
ordinances

        Due to the complexities of factors involved in the matter of zoning, as in other
        fields, where courts review the actions of administrative bodies, it should be
        assumed that those charged with that responsibility . . . have specialized
        knowledge in that field. Accordingly, they should be allowed a comparatively
        wide latitude of discretion; and their actions endowed with a presumption of
        correctness and validity . . ..

Cottonwood Heights Citizens Ass’n v. Board of Commissioners, 593 P.2d 138, 140 (Utah 1979).
The Utah Supreme Court further elaborated on this rule and held that zoning agencies are
allowed broad discretion in policy and factual decisions, but when a local government interprets
the terms of its zoning ordinance, “a better approach is [to] . . . review [the] interpretation of
ordinances for correctness, but . . . afford some level of non-binding deference to the
interpretation advanced by the local agency.” Carrier, 2004 UT 98, ¶28, 104 P.3d at 1216. 4

        B. Interpreting and Applying § 21A.24.070(E)(1) of the Salt Lake City Code.

The language of § 21A.24.070(E)(1) does not explicitly require that the Subject Parcel be
included or excluded in the setback calculation. The City argues for exclusion, reasoning that
because new construction is proposed, the lot should be considered vacant. On the other hand,


4
  In the Carrier decision, the court applied that rule to an ordinance interpreted by a “lay” planning commission,
rather than by a professional staff. Using the reasoning of the Carrier decision, the approach should be the same,
however, and the interpretation advanced by the City’s zoning staff should be given the same non-binding deference.
See Carrier, 2004 UT 98, ¶¶ 25-28, 104 P.3d at 1215-16.
the Lowes contend that the ordinance requires that all “existing buildings” be included, whether
or not they are slated for demolition.

The Lowes “inclusion” argument derives from the plain language of the ordinance. The first
sentence of § 21A.24.070(E)(1) states that “[t]he minimum depth of the front yard for all
principal buildings shall be equal to the average of the front yards of existing buildings within
the block face.” On the surface, the ordinance seems to require inclusion of all standing
buildings on the block face. However, the plain language must be approached from the goals the
ordinance is meant to achieve. See Foutz, 2004 UT 75, ¶ 11, 100 P.3d at 1174. That purpose, as
stated by the Salt Lake City Council, includes “harmonious development of residential
communities” and compatible fill development. See Salt Lake City Code, § 21A.24.010(A). The
ordinance fulfills this purpose by requiring setbacks that are similar to neighboring homes.
Including all existing buildings in the setback calculation, including those to be demolished (as
advocated by the Lowes) is consistent with this purpose.

The City, arguing in favor of exclusion, explains that if the parcel were empty, only neighboring
buildings would be factored into the calculation, because there would be no “existing” building
on the parcel. The plain language of the ordinance supports this conclusion. However, it is
conceivable that a property could recently have had a building that has already been demolished,
or lost through fire or natural disaster. Should the City be expected to include such a building in
its calculations? The City also notes that a property owner could demolish a building, and wait
to apply for a building permit to take advantage of a more favorable calculation of the setback.
This may lead to disputes over whether a building “existed” or not. The City contends that
exclusion avoids this situation, and treats all properties equally, whether there is an existing
building or not. This ensures a uniform approach to all properties, as well as a level of certainty
in the setback calculations. The City’s approach is plausible under the plain language of the
ordinance, supports the purpose of the ordinance, reduces disputes, and encourages uniformity in
application.

In essence, the question reduces to a choice between the two approaches, both valid, and both
supportable by the ordinance’s language and purpose. As indicated by the Utah Supreme Court
in the Carrier decision cited above, the City’s position is entitled to deference, because of the
expertise and specialized knowledge of the City staff. That deference “tips the scales” in favor
of the City’s interpretation.

Therefore, it is the opinion of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman that the City’s
application of § 21A.24.070(E)(1), excluding the parcels being developed, is a justifiable
interpretation of the ordinance. The City’s approach is reasonably supported by the ordinance’s
language, helps fulfill the purpose of the ordinance, avoids disputes, and ensures a greater degree
of certainty for property owners.

                                          Conclusion
The City’s application of § 21A.24.070(E)(1) is plausible, and justifiable. Both the “exclusion”
and “inclusion” approaches are supported by the plain language of the ordinance, and both fulfill
the purpose of the ordinance. However, the City’s specialized knowledge and expertise entitle its
interpretation to deference. Because of this deference, and because the City’s approach also
promotes greater certainty in how the ordinance is administered, the Office of the Property
Rights Ombudsman finds that the City’s application is justifiable and should not be overturned.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, §13-43-205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

U.C.A. §13-43-206(10)(b) requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to the government
entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with U.C.A. §63-30d-401 (Notices Filed
Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Christine Meeker
              Salt Lake City Recorder
              451 S. State, Room 415
              Salt Lake City, UT 84111

On this ___________ Day of December, 2007, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
