                     Advisory Opinion #44
                        Parties: Ryan Pool & Ron Smith and City of Draper
                                          Issued: June 26, 2008

                                       TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      H: Compelling, Countervailing Public Interests
                      J: Requirements Imposed Upon Development

A developer and a local government may enter a development agreement, but
that agreement must comply with statutory and constitutional restrictions. A local
government may not avoid constitutional limits on exactions through contract
provisions.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                           State of Utah
                           Department of Commerce
JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
       Governor
                           OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 GARY R. HERBERT
 Lieutenant Governor



                                           ADVISORY OPINION
        Dedication and Construction of Public Improvements as Condition of Development, and
               Alterations in Construction and Design Standards Prior to Final Approval


       Advisory Opinion Requested by:                Ryan Pool/Ron Smith

       Local Government Entity:                      Draper City

       Applicant for the Land Use Approval:          R&D Property Holding, LLC

       Project:                                      Residential Subdivision

       Date of this Advisory Opinion:                June 26, 2008

       Opinion Authored By:                          Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney, Office of the Property
                                                     Rights Ombudsman


                                                     Issues
          I.     May a local government require construction of public improvements without providing
                 reimbursement, if the developer acknowledges that it will be solely responsible for the
                 improvements?

          II.    May a local government impose new construction and design standards on public
                 improvements in a proposed development, while the land use application is pending, but
                 prior to final approval?

                                      Summary of Advisory Opinion
       The City’s requirements that R&D complete a section of 150 East not located within the
       subdivision property, adhere to new road construction standards, install additional storm drains,
       and complete Carlquist Drive to its full width are all exactions. They must all satisfy the
       Nollan/Dolan “rough proportionality” test in order to be valid. The City reimbursed the
       developer for at least part of the costs associated with the construction of 150 East. This shows
       that the City acknowledges its responsibility to compensate the developer if exactions exceed the
property owner’s proportional share. Nothing has been provided to show that the developer is
entitled to more compensation for the 150 East construction than has already been paid

The new road construction standard and the design changes to the storm drain system were both
adopted prior to final plat approval. The incremental increase in costs due to the new standards
does not necessarily make the conditions excessive. The storm drain design was changed due to
concerns about flooding, and were agreed to by the developer. The City is not barred from
adopting new road construction standards and applying them to pending land use applications.

The City’s requirement that the developer construct Carlquist Drive to its full width, at the
developer’s expense, is an excessive exaction. There has been no showing that the impact
attributable to the subdivision is roughly proportional to the burden of dedicating and
constructing the road. The subdivision consists of 13 lots and a commercial parcel, and the new
road will probably serve future development as well. An affidavit from the developer
acknowledging that it is responsible to build the road at its expense does not excuse the City
from statutory and constitutional limitations. Unless there is a finding that the impacts of the
subdivision are roughly proportional to the costs of dedicating and constructing Carlquist Drive,
the City must reimburse the developer for at least a portion of the costs.

                                                            Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Utah Code Annotated § 13-
43-205. The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from R&D Property Holding, LLC on April
30, 2008. A letter with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return receipt requested,
to Kathy Montoya, City Recorder, Draper City, at 1020 E. Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah 84020.
Ms. Montoya’s name was listed on the State’s Governmental Immunity Database, as the contact
person for the City. The City submitted a response, which was received by the Office of the
Property Rights Ombudsman on May 12, 2008.

                                                            Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:




Advisory Opinion – R&D Property Holdings, LLC/Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 26, 2008 – page 2 of 12 pages
     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion filed April 30, 2008 with the Office of the Property
                 Rights Ombudsman by R&D Property Holdings, LLC, with attachments.
     2.          Response from Draper City, submitted by Douglas Ahlstrom, City Attorney
     3.          Previous Request for Advisory Opinion, submitted by R&D Property Holding, LLC,
                 January 9, 2007 (This request was withdrawn in 2007, but included some of the issues
                 raised in the later request).
                                                            Background
R&D Property Holding, LLC proposed a 13-unit residential subdivision in Draper, known as
“Levoy Estates.” In addition to the 13 residential lots, the developers included a commercial
parcel to the west. All of the residential lots were located south of Carlquist Drive, which was
designated as a “major arterial road” by the City. There could be no access from Carlquist Drive
directly to any of the building lots. In order to accommodate this restriction, the developers
proposed a crescent-shaped private driveway off of Carlquist, as access to 4 of the lots. The
other lots were accessed via a secondary street and a cul-de-sac.

           A.          Approvals and Carlquist Drive Right-of-way

In March of 2006, R&D applied for preliminary review of the Levoy Estates Subdivision. On
August 1, the City Council granted preliminary plat approval. Over the next few months, city
staff met with R&D several times to work on technical aspects of the proposed development.
One of the issues that arose during these discussions was construction of the full width of
Carlquist Drive. The proposed right-of-way included a small portion of property that did not
belong to R&D. Even though approval from the parcel’s owner had not been obtained, in
January of 2007 R&D asked that the City Council consider granting final plat approval. The
City Council continued the matter because the R&D did not have approval from the owner of the
parcel, which meant that Carlquist Drive could not be built to its full width. 1 After these
concerns were satisfactorily addressed, the City Council granted final plat approval on June 19,
2007. 2

Even though final approval had not been granted, the City nevertheless approved a subdivision
bond in February of 2007. The bond amount was $677,604.20, which was determined by the
estimated costs to complete the public improvements, including the public streets, storm drains,
sidewalks, etc. R&D secured a bond for that amount, and continued work to secure final plat


1
  The minutes of the January 2, 2007 meeting of the Draper City Council indicate some discussion over whether
Carlquist Drive would need to be constructed to its full width. In July of 2006, during discussions about the
subdivision’s concept plan, the City had indicated that only about one-half (40.5 feet) of Carlquist Drive could be
built to accommodate two lanes of traffic. The remaining half of the street would be built when the property to the
north was developed. However, by the time the final plat was considered, the City required construction of the full
width of Carlquist Drive. The land in dispute was a small triangle-shaped parcel that was needed for Carlquist
Drive, but was not part of the Levoy property. Because R&D originally understood that only the southern half of the
street would need to be built, it did not negotiate purchase of that small parcel until after the January, 2007 meeting.
2
  During the spring of 2007, R&D was able to purchase the parcel.



Advisory Opinion – R&D Property Holdings, LLC/Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 26, 2008 – page 3 of 12 pages
approval. It is not clear whether the estimate included the cost for constructing the total width of
Carlquist Drive, or only the southern half. 3

R&D requested reimbursement for a portion of the costs for Carlquist Drive, arguing that it is
building more road than is necessary due to the subdivision. The City states that reimbursement
from impact fees is impossible, because there was no reimbursement agreement in place prior to
construction, and also because Carlquist Drive did not include sidewalks or park strips.

           B.          150 East Construction & Reimbursement

In the vicinity of Levoy Estates, 150 East was not finished, although completed roadways
stubbed just to the north and just to the south of the subdivision. Approximately 95 feet of the
undeveloped land that would be 150 East is not included within the Levoy Estates Subdivision,
and about 84 feet was within the development’s boundaries. The City wished to connect 150
East to make it a through street. Therefore, one of the conditions of approval was that R&D
complete the road, including the portion that was not part of the Levoy Estates subdivision. The
City agreed to use impact fees to reimburse R&D for the cost of completing the street on the 95
feet that was not part of Levoy Estates. An agreement was drafted whereby that the City would
pay $44,836.28 as reimbursement, as impact fees were received. Both the City and R&D signed
the contract, which had an effective date of January 8, 2008. 4

R&D states that it anticipated reimbursement of $63,000, based on its cost estimate for the
project, which was prepared and submitted to the City in February of 2007. R&D acknowledges
signing the reimbursement contract, but admits that it did not review the final figures in that
agreement. R&D completed 150 East, and made up the difference between the reimbursement
amount and the construction costs.

           C.          Changes to Construction Standards

When R&D proposed its preliminary plat in the spring of 2006, the City’s roadway standards
called for 4 inches of asphalt paving, 7” base gravel, and 9” sub-base. On March 31, 2007,
before the final plat was approved, but after R&D requested approval, the City increased its
standards to 6” of asphalt paving, 8” road base, and 10” of structural fill. Upon final plat
approval, the City required the new standards for the roads in Levoy Estates, including Carlquist
Drive.

Around the same time, the City informed R&D that Levoy Estates required an underground drain
system within its streets, requiring a new engineering design along with the additional
construction costs. The City states that this change was made after a geotechnical report found



3
 The City’s list of costs included “Asphalt Paving & Base,” which was estimated at 70,029 square feet.
4
 The Reimbursement Agreement includes a breakdown of costs as an exhibit. The Agreement does not identify
how this information was obtained.



Advisory Opinion – R&D Property Holdings, LLC/Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 26, 2008 – page 4 of 12 pages
that the area has a shallow water table, and that the underground drains were a compromise with
R&D, so that the homes in the subdivision could be built with basements. 5

Although the new roadway standards and new drain installation increased the costs for R&D, the
subdivision bond approved in February of 2007 was unchanged. The increase in construction
costs caused financial difficulty for R&D, forcing them to borrow more money than anticipated.

                                                            Analysis
           The Conditions Imposed on the Levoy Estates Subdivision are Exactions,
           Subject to the Nollan/Dolan “Rough Proportionality” Analysis

           A.          The City’s Requirements are Exactions

The requirements imposed by the City on the Levoy Estates Subdivision constitute “exactions”
under Utah law. “Exactions are conditions imposed by governmental entities on developers for
the issuance of a building permit or subdivision plat approval.” B.A.M. Development, LLC v.
Salt Lake County, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 34, 128 P.3d 1161, 1169. 6 The term “exaction” includes any
condition on development, including not only dedication of property, but also payment of money,
installation of specific improvements, or other requirements imposed by a public entity.
Furthermore, the term “exaction” includes conditions imposed by a general legislative enactment
as well as those imposed by decisions or negotiations on specific proposals. Id., 2006 UT 2, ¶
46, 128 P.3d at 1170. The requirements that R&D construct Carlquist Drive to its full width,
complete 150 East, apply the newly-adopted roadway standards, and install additional storm
drains are all exactions, and all are subject to statutory and constitutional regulation.

In 2005, the Utah Legislature enacted § 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code, which authorizes cities to
impose exactions on new development, within established limits:

           (1) A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed
           in a land use application if:
               (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
           each exaction; and
               (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
           impact of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-508(1). 7 The Utah Supreme Court observed that the language of this
statute was borrowed directly from the U.S. Supreme Court analyses in Nollan v. California

5
  The City also required a note on the plat, as a disclaimer and notice about the water table and the possibility of
flooding in basements.
6
  See also Salt Lake County v. Board of Education, Granite School District, 808 P.2d 1056, 1058 (Utah 1991)
(holding that “development exactions” are “contributions to a governmental entity imposed as a condition precedent
to approving the developer’s project.”)
7
  There is a corresponding statute applicable to counties found at § 17-27a-507 of the Utah Code.



Advisory Opinion – R&D Property Holdings, LLC/Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 26, 2008 – page 5 of 12 pages
Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825, 107 S.Ct. 3141 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374,
114 S.Ct. 2309 (1994). (See B.A.M, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 41, 128 P.3d at 1170.) In those two landmark
cases, the U.S. Supreme Court promulgated rules for determining when an exaction may be
validly imposed under the federal constitution’s Takings Clause. 8 This has come to be known as
the Nollan/Dolan “rough proportionality” test, and that two-part analysis has been codified in §
10-9a-508. In order to be valid, the requirements imposed by the City must satisfy the rules of
this section.

           B.          Reimbursement for Completing 150 East

Because the City has committed to reimburse R&D for a portion of its construction costs, the
requirement that 150 East be completed appears valid under rough proportionality analysis. The
requirement satisfies the first half, or “prong” of the Nollan/Dolan test. Building and
maintaining adequate roadways is a legitimate government interest. UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-8-8;
see also Carrier v. Lindquist, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18, 37 P.3d 1112, 1117. 9 Requiring R&D to
complete the roadway promotes the City’s legitimate objectives, so the first prong of § 10-9a-
508(1) is satisfied. 10

The requirement also appears to satisfy the second prong of the rough proportionality test,
because the City has reimbursed R&D for a portion of the construction costs. A local
government may require that a developer meet conditions or exactions, but only to the extent that
the exaction is “roughly proportionate” to the impact of the development. Any cost in excess of
what is roughly proportionate would be a “taking,” requiring just compensation.” See Dolan,
512 U.S. at 391. The City recognized its responsibility, and agreed to reimburse R&D for at least
a portion of the construction costs. The parties signed the agreement in February of 2007. While
R&D disputes the amount of the reimbursement, there has been no information provided that it is




8
  See U.S. CONST., amend. V. (“nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.”) The
Supreme Court has interpreted the Takings Clause as limiting a government’s ability to impose conditions on
development. Furthermore, “[t]he Utah Constitution reinforces the protection of private property against
uncompensated governmental takings . . ..” B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 31, 128 P.3d at 1168. See also UTAH CONST. art. I,
§ 22 (“Private property shall not be taken or damaged for public use without just compensation.”)
9
  “In order for a government to be effective, it needs the power to establish or relocate public throughways, even at
the expense of some individual citizens, for the convenience and safety of the general public. . . . In fact, cities are
vested with the statutory power to ‘lay out, establish, open, alter, widen, narrow, extend, grade, pave or otherwise
improve streets, alleys, avenues, boulevards, sidewalks, . . . and may vacate the same . . . by ordinance’. Utah Code
Ann. 10-8-8." Carrier, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18, 37 P.2d at 1117.
10
   Note that the first prong of the exaction test in § 10-9a-508 requires an essential link between the exaction
(construction of the road) and a legitimate government interest (providing adequate roadways). This first prong does
not, however, require an essential link between the exaction (completing the road) and the approval sought (a
subdivison). See Nollan, 483 U.S. at 837. The “rough proportionality,” or second prong of the test weighs the
impact of project for which approval has been sought against the nature and extent of the proposed exaction. See
B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶¶ 39-40, 128 P.3d at 1169-70.



Advisory Opinion – R&D Property Holdings, LLC/Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 26, 2008 – page 6 of 12 pages
bearing more than what is roughly proportional. 11 Without such information, there is no reason
to doubt that the reimbursement provided is fair.

           C.          The New Roadway Standards & Strom Drain Upgrades

Because the new roadway standards were adopted prior to final plat approval, R&D must comply
with them. Along the same lines, the additions to the storm drain system were proposed prior to
final plat approval, and so R&D must also comply. Prior to issuing a land use permit, a local
government may adopt new construction or design standards, and may require alternative
designs of public improvements in order to meet specific needs. A local government may not,
however, change the standards or designs after approval of a land use permit:

           A municipality may not impose on a holder of an issued land use permit a
           requirement that is not expressed:
              (i) in the land use permit or in documents on which the land use permit is
           based; or
              (ii) in [Chapter 10-9a of the Utah Code] or the municipality’s ordinances.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(e) (emphasis added). 12 Both the roadway standards and the storm
drain design changes were adopted prior to the final plat approval for Levoy Estates. In fact, the
City notes that the changes to the storm drain design were discussed, and approved by R&D
prior to final plat approval. In short, R&D must comply with the construction and design
standards adopted by the City, because those standards were in place when the final plat was
approved.

Section 10-9a-509(e) implies that construction and design standards can be changed prior to final
approval. The doctrine of vested rights, as explained in Western Land Equities v. City of Logan,
617 P.2d 388 (Utah 1980), does not mean that each and every construction standard is “frozen”
on the date a land use application is submitted. As an application is evaluated and processed,
information may be discovered (such as the ground water problem) which requires changes to
design or construction. It is acknowledged that the road construction standards were not changed
because of specific problems identified with the Levoy Estates subdivision. However, the
change only impacts how the road will be built, not whether the road will be built, or what type
of use R&D may build on the property. Since the construction standards do not affect regulation
of land use, it is acceptable for the City to adopt new standards which would apply to pending
land use development applications.


11
   R&D reports that it estimated the cost for the 150 East construction at $63,000. The reimbursement agreement
provides that the City pay R&D about $44,800.00. That amount is based on cost estimates included as an exhibit to
the agreement. There has been no information provided which helps determine what R&D’s proportionate share
should be. The “rough proportionality” test does not require mathematical precision, but only a showing that the
cost borne by the property owner or developer is roughly proportionate to the impact attributable to the development
activity. Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391.
12
   There is a corresponding statute applicable to counties found at § 17-27a-508 of the Utah Code.



Advisory Opinion – R&D Property Holdings, LLC/Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 26, 2008 – page 7 of 12 pages
Furthermore, the increased cost due to the road construction standards and the storm drain
changes do not appear to be invalid exactions. There has been no showing that the increased cost
is disproportional to the impact caused by the subdivision. The City proposed the storm drain
changes in response to a geotechnical report that identified shallow ground water, which may
lead to flooding problems. In order for the homes in Levoy Estates to have basements, the
parties agreed to the additional storm drains. The storm drains and roads are necessary
improvements, regardless of what standard or design is used. In short, the increased costs alone
do not necessarily mean that the condition is an invalid exaction. 13

           D.          Construction of Carlquist Drive

Because the burden of dedicating and constructing Carlquist Drive is not roughly proportional to
the impact generated by the Levoy Estates Subdivision, R&D should be partially compensated.
As stated above, a local government may require an exaction, but only if it satisfies the
Nollan/Dolan rough proportionality test. The City’s requirement that Carlquist Drive be built
satisfies the first prong of the rough proportionality test. 14 However, the City has not shown that
requiring construction of the full width of Carlquist Drive is roughly proportional to the impact
attributable to Levoy Estates. The subdivision consists of only 13 residential lots (and one
commercial parcel). Carlquist Drive will serve as the primary access to the subdivsion, and will
also be a through street, linking 150 East and 300 East. 15 More importantly, Carlquist Drive will
most likely serve future residential development to the north. R&D should not be required to
shoulder the entire burden of the road, when the impact resulting from R&D’s development will
only be a portion of that served by the road. 16

The City explains that it cannot use impact fees to reimburse R&D for Carlquist Drive, because
there was no reimbursement agreement in place, as required by the City’s ordinances, and
because there are no sidewalks or park strips. The City also notes that it hasn’t collected impact
fees from the Levoy Estates Subdivision yet, because impact fees are paid when building permits
are issued. Even if impact fees are not used to reimburse R&D, the City cannot impose the full
burden of constructing Carlquist Drive on the developer. To do so violates § 10-9a-508 of the
Utah Code, as well as the Utah and Federal Constitutions, by forcing a private property owner to
bear the disproportionate cost of a public improvement.



13
   Many factors are relevant in determining rough proportionality, such as those listed in Banberry v. South Jordan,
631 P.2d 899, 903-04 (Utah 1981). Proportionality analysis is rarely simple and straightforward. Thus, the
requirement of rough proportionality rather than exact proportionality.
14
   As was discussed above, building and maintaining roadways for traffic flow is a legitimate governmental interest.
Requiring construction of a roadway to serve present and future traffic needs is a legitimate means of promoting that
interest. See note 9, supra, and associated text.
15
   There is commercial development along 150 East, which is where R&D’s commercial parcel is located.
16
   “The Fifth Amendment’s guarantee . . . was designed to bar the Government from forcing some people alone to
bear public burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.” Armstrong v.
United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960); see also Monterrey v. Del Monte Dunes at Monterrey, LTD, 526 U.S. 687,
703 (1999).



Advisory Opinion – R&D Property Holdings, LLC/Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 26, 2008 – page 8 of 12 pages
While the City acknowledges that Carlquist Drive is part of its Major Transportation Plan, it
states that R&D signed an affidavit “admitting and acknowledging” that it would construct the
road at its expense. Agreements between local governments and developers to dedicate and
construct public facilities are valid, and developers may voluntarily undertake construction of
public improvements. When approval of new development is conditioned on construction of
such improvements, however, the conditions are subject to statutory and constitutional
limitations. Draper City is a subdivision of the state, and may only exercise those powers
granted to it, within constitutional limits.

           Local governments, as subdivisions of the State, exercise those powers granted to
           them by the State Legislature, . . . and the exercise of a delegated power is subject
           to the limitations imposed by state statutes and state and federal constitutions. A
           state cannot empower local governments to do that which the state itself does not
           have authority to do.

State v. Hutchinson, 624 P.2d 1116, 1121 (Utah 1980) (citation omitted). A corollary to that rule
must necessarily follow: A local government cannot do indirectly what it is prohibited from
doing directly. As is more fully explained below, a contract does not provide a “back door”
through which a government entity may elude statutory or constitutional obligations.

All local government action must operate within the parameters of a statutory and constitutional
framework.

           When reviewing a local government action, we give local government great
           latitude in creating solutions to the many challenges it faces, unless the action “is
           arbitrary, or is directly prohibited by, or is inconsistent with the policy of, the state
           or federal laws or the constitution of [Utah] or of the United States.”

Price Dev. Co. v. Orem City, 2000 UT 26, ¶ 10, 995 P.2d 1237, 1243 (quoting Hutchinson, 624
P.2d at 1126). 17 This includes any government action, including negotiating and executing
contracts with private parties: “The exercise [of a local government’s planning] power must
conform with [state statutes] even if embodied in a contract; a developer and a [local
government] cannot do by contract what the statute prohibits.” Toll Bros. Inc. v. County of
Burlington, 944 A.2d 1, 18 (N.J. 2008). Otherwise, a local government could use its authority to
enter contracts as a means of operating outside proscribed limits, undermining established
constitutional authority.

The New Jersey Supreme Court considered whether a developer and a local government may
validly agree for the developer to fund public improvements in excess of what is necessitated by
a proposed development. The New Jersey Court began its analysis from the standpoint that the
local government must comply with constitutional provisions, including the Nollan/Dolan rough


17
  In Price Development Co., the Utah Supreme Court considered the validity of an agreement between a city and a
business developer.



Advisory Opinion – R&D Property Holdings, LLC/Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 26, 2008 – page 9 of 12 pages
proportionality test, which “animates” the Takings Clause of the U.S. Constitution. 18 A
development agreement requiring construction of public improvements is valid, provided it does
not obligate a developer to bear a disproportionate share of the cost for those improvements. 19
An agreement that imposes a disproportionate burden on a developer, even if entered voluntarily,
would be unenforceable. 20 “If we were to conclude otherwise . . . the effect would be to approve
public entities and developers entering into “voluntary” agreements in violation of the specific
provisions of [state law]. Such an approach cannot be countenanced.” Toll Bros., 944 A.2d at
17.

The Court pointed out that allowing voluntary agreements in which a developer contributes more
than a fair share towards construction of public improvements could lead to inequity,21
corruption, 22 and poor planning decisions. 23 A policy allowing such voluntary agreements as a
means of promoting community spirit and altruistic volunteerism is problematic and does not
justify ignoring the statutory and constitutional limits on governmental authority. Such a policy
“fails to provide an adequate safeguard against municipal duress to procure otherwise unlawful
exactions because the line between true volunteerism and compulsion is fragile one.” Toll Bros.,
944 A.2d at 17 (citation omitted).

By limiting governmental authority, the Takings Clause protects property owners’ rights from
excessive government exactions, including those expressed in a contract with a government
entity:

           The Dolan test is intended to address land use “bargains” between property
           owners and regulatory bodies—those in which the local government conditions
           permit approval for a given use on the owner’s surrender of benefits which
           purportedly offset the impact of the proposed development. It is in this
           paradigmatic permit context—where the individual property owner-developer


18
   Toll Bros., 944 A.2d at 13-14; see also Monterey, 526 U.S. 687, 703 (1999) (“[I]n a general sense, concerns for
proportionality animate the Takings Clause.”) The Toll Brothers case concerned a development agreement, whereby
the developer (Toll Brothers) agreed to construct roadways as part of a massive development project. However,
economic conditions forced the developer to dramatically scale down the original plans. The County rejected Toll
Brothers’ request that the development agreement be modified to reflect the smaller project. The Court held that the
County could not enforce the original agreement, because to do so would force Toll Borthers to bear a
disproportionate share of the costs for the public improvements. Even though the development agreement was
entered voluntarily, the “rough proportionality” test required by state and federal law still applied.
19
   “The fundamental requirement . . . is that the end result must be equitable.” Toll Bros., 944 A.2d at 14. (emphasis
in original.)
20
   Toll Bros., 944 A.2d at 21.
21
   Toll Bros., 944 A.2d at 18 (“Allowing such a scheme not only impacts the developers willing to pay, but threatens
the livelihood of those unable or unwilling [to] submit to the illicit exaction toll.”)
22
   Toll Bros., 944 A.2d at 17 (“A developer’s voluntary contribution to defray the cost of a municipal obligation,
should not be permitted to influence or affect municipal zoning decisions.”) (citation omitted)
23
   Toll Bros., 944 A.2d at 18 (“Permitting these excess exactions would in effect allow sale of development to those
who are able to pay the asking price. It would be fair to assume that the zeal to increase revenue would result in
inattention to more appropriate planning concerns.”)(citation and alterations omitted).



Advisory Opinion – R&D Property Holdings, LLC/Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 26, 2008 – page 10 of 12 pages
           seeks to negotiate approval of a planned development—that the combined Nollan
           and Dolan test quintessentially applies.

Town of Flower Mound v. Stafford Estates LP, 71 S.W.3d 18, 33-34 (Tex. App. 2002)(emphasis
in original, citation omitted). 24 Constitutional protections and restrictions are paramount, and a
government’s authority to enter agreements must yield to their limitations. 25

As has been discussed, local governments in Utah must operate within statutory and
constitutional limits. See Price Dev. Co., 2000 UT 26, ¶ 10, 995 P.2d at 1243; Hutchinson, 624
P.2d at 1126. The Nollan/Dolan rough proportionality analysis is required to ensure preservation
of rights guaranteed by the Federal and Utah Constitutions. See B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 41. In
addition, rough proportionality analysis is required by the Utah Code. See UTAH CODE ANN. §
10-9a-508. These limits must extend to contracts negotiated between local governments and
property owners, even if the agreements are entered voluntarily, even if they are financially
advantageous to the property owner, and even if they result in the construction of desired public
improvements. 26 Development agreements between local governments and property owners are
permitted under Utah Law 27 , but they must comply with statutory and constitutional guidelines.

Turning to the Levoy Estates Approval, whatever the understanding was between Draper City
and R&D, there does not appear to be adequate safeguards against an improper exaction. It is
simply insufficient to state that R&D signed an affidavit “acknowledging” that it would bear the
full expense of the road, because the City could not impose the condition unless it compensated
the developer. 28

                                                            Conclusion
Each condition imposed by Draper City on the Levoy Estates Subdivision is an exaction, which
must satisfy the Nollan/Dolan rough proportionality analysis. The City’s requirement that R&D
complete 150 East on property not located within the subdivision is a valid condition, because
the City reimbursed R&D for at least part of the work that was done. There has been nothing

24
   Aff’d, Town of Flower Mound v. Stafford Estates, LP, 135 S.W.3d 620 (Tex. 2004). It is noted that the Flower
Mound case did not involve a development agreement, but a condition imposed directly by a municipality.
However, the rough proportionality test must apply to any “bargain” negotiated between a local government and a
property owner., in order to preserve constitutional rights.
25
   By way of example, it would be unthinkable to allow a local government to skirt the limitations imposed by the
First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution simply by drafting a contract with a private party.
26
   “A strong public desire to improve the public condition will not warrant achieving the desire by a shorter cut than
the constitutional way of paying for the change.” Dolan, 512 U.S. at 396; (quoting Pennsylvania Coal Co. v.
Mahon, 260 U.S. 393, 416 (1922)).
27
   See UTAH CODE ANN. §§ 10-9a-102(2); 17-27a-102(2) (Local governments authorized to use various forms of
land use control, including development agreements). A local government may enter a development agreement with
a property owner covering any number of enforceable terms. To the extent that the terms of an agreement do not run
afoul of constitutional protections or statutory limitations, it would be valid
28
   There is no prohibition against providing reimbursement to a developer over a reasonable period of time, as long
as developer is not required to bear more than its proportional share of the cost for a public improvement.



Advisory Opinion – R&D Property Holdings, LLC/Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 26, 2008 – page 11 of 12 pages
provided which would indicate that R&D’s share after this reimbursement is disproportional to
the impact of the proposed development.

The City’s adoption of new road construction standards and the changes to the underground
storm drains are valid conditions which were imposed prior to final plat approval. Local
governments may impose reasonable conditions on new development prior to receiving final
approval, including changes to construction standards. The changes affect how necessary
improvements would be built, and do not impose new requirements, because the roads and storm
drains were required before the standards were changed. The changes to the storm drain system
were required because of flooding concerns raised in an expert report, and were agreed to by
R&D. Since the storm drain changes were determined to be necessary, and were negotiated
between the parties, it cannot be said that they were improperly imposed, or are invalid
exactions. The changes may have increased construction costs, but not to the point that the
increased costs become invalid exactions.

Finally, the City’s requirement that Carlquist Drive be constructed to its full width, at R&D’s
expense, is an excessive exaction. The subdivision consists of 13 residential lots, and a
commercial parcel. There has been no showing that the impact caused by the Levoy Estates
Subdivision is roughly proportional to the burden of dedicating and constructing Carlquist Drive.
Without such a showing, the City cannot require R&D to assume the full burden of building the
road. An acknowledgement that R&D was responsible for the road does not excuse the City
from statutory and constitutional limitations. The City must compensate R&D, at least to the
extent that the cost of dedicating and constructing Carlquist Drive exceeds R&D’s proportional
share.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – R&D Property Holdings, LLC/Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 26, 2008 – page 12 of 12 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Kathy Montoya, City Recorder
              Draper City
              1020 E. Pioneer Road
              Draper, UT 84020

On this ___________ Day of June, 2008, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
