                       Advisory Opinion #19


               Parties: Scott Webber & Patrick Hayes and City of Washington Terrace
                                      Issued: August 9, 2007

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                             Entitlement to Application Approval (Vesting)
                                         Pending Ordinances
                           Compliance with Mandatory Land Use Ordinances

A city may deny a land use application if there is an ordinance change pending when the
application is made. An ordinance is considered pending when a formal proceedings have been
initiated, such as publication on an agenda for a public meeting. Zoning estoppel cannot be
based on a City’s failure to notify developers of possible ordinance changes.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                                      State of Utah
                                      Department of Commerce
  JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
                                      OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN

     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor


                                                             ADVISORY OPINION
                                                                    Zoning Estoppel


            Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                 Scott Webber & Patrick Hays

            Local Government Entity:                                       City of Washington Terrace

            Applicant for the Land Use Approval:                           PFS, LLC

            Project:                                                       Proposed Apartment Complex

            Date of this Advisory Opinion:                                 August 9, 2007

            Advisory Opinion Prepared By:                                  Elliot R. Lawrence, Office of the Property Rights
                                                                           Ombudsman

                                                                            Issue
            Is Washington Terrace estopped from denying an application for an apartment complex because a
            City employee did not inform the owners that the City was considering a change in its zoning
            ordinances?

                                                      Summary of Advisory Opinion
            Washington Terrace had formally initiated proceedings to amend its zoning ordinance by the time
            PFS would have submitted its application. Section 10-9a-509 of the Utah Code provides that a
            city may deny a land use application if formal proceedings to amend an ordinance have been
            initiated when an application is submitted. The City announced the changes to its zoning ordinance
            no later than October 13, 2007, when a notice was published in the Ogden Standard Examiner.
            Thus, by the time PFS had prepared its application in November, the zoning ordinance change had
            been formally initiated.

            The City is not estopped from amending its zoning ordinance, and prohibiting the proposed use,
            because a City employee did not inform PFS of a pending ordinance change. The City was not
            obligated to inform PFS of the potential change, even if the City had knowledge of PFS’s plans




160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
for the parcel. Utah cases discussing zoning estoppel indicate that a mere knowledge of a proposed
use or condition is not sufficient to estop a government entity from exercising its zoning powers
and rights. Furthermore, imposing a duty to disclose upon the City deviates from the policy
established by Utah case law and statutes which discourage individualized “case-by-case”
determinations in vested rights matters in favor of well-defined rules applicable in all situations.
                                                     Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final decision
by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Utah Code Ann. § 13-43-205. An
advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or other
specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such a
review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from Scott Webber on July 12, 2007. A letter
with the Request attached was sent via certified mail to: Laura Gamon, City Treasurer, City of
Washington Terrace, 5249 South Pointe Dr., Washington Terrace, Utah 84405. The return receipt
was signed and was received on July 18, 2007, indicating that Ms. Gamon had received it the
request on behalf of the City. On July 19, the City requested an extension of time to respond. PFS
did not object, so the extension was granted. The City’s response was received on August 6, 2007.
                                                     Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.        Request for an Advisory Opinion filed July 12, 2007 with the Office of the Property
               Rights Ombudsman by Scott Webber and Patrick Hays
     2.        A seven-page letter from Scott Webber
     3.        A two-page letter from Patrick Hays
     4.        A two-page letter from Judy Webber, Sales Agent with Coldwell Banker
     5.        A five-page letter from Paul C. Anderson, P. E., Great Basin Engineering
     6.        A one-page letter from Eric R. Tuttle, Architect, Tuttle and Associates, Inc.
     7.        Real Estate Purchase Contract, property located at 468 W. 5000 South, Washington
               Terrace, Utah, dated August 28, 2006
     8.        Email correspondence between Scott Webber and Eric Tuttle, regarding proposed
               design of apartment buildings, October 2006 to January 2007
     9.        Letter from Scott Webber to Mark Christensen and Bill Morris, dated February 1,
               2007
     10.       Letter from Scott Webber to Robert Reeder, dated March 26, 2007
     11.       Response from Washington Terrace, prepared by William Morris, dated August 3,
               2007
     12.       Minutes, agendas, and other documents related to proposed zoning change.


Advisory Opinion – Scott Webber/Washington Terrace
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 9 2007– page 2 of 13 pages
                                             Statutes and Ordinances
     1.        Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-509
     2.        Chapter 17.24 of the Washington City Code, “R-4 Residential Zone”
     3.        Ordinance 06-11, City of Washington Terrace, adopted November 14, 2006

                                                     Background
Scott Webber, along with Patrick and Frances Hays (PFS, LLC), acquired the parcel located at 468
West 5000 South in August of 2006. The parcel is approximately 2.19 acres, and had been an
orchard with a residence. The previous owners had passed away, and the property was being
marketed by Robert Reeder. PFS intended to build an apartment complex on the property, and the
purchase price reflected that use. At the time PFS entered the purchase agreement, they were told
by the sellers and their realtor that the property was zoned “R-4,” which allowed apartments. The
sellers also lived near the property, and they discussed the proposed project with the owners of
PFS.

The “R-4” zone allowed apartment buildings, along with other residential uses. An apartment
complex with 24 or fewer units was a permitted use under that zoning designation, while a larger
complex (25 or more units) was a conditional use.

I.        Meetings between City Staff and PFS Representatives.

PFS stated that its representative met with Jeff Monroe, Washington Terrace’s Chief Building
Official on at least three separate occasions. Scott Webber stated that he met with Mr. Monroe on
August 31, and explained that he was purchasing the property. Mr. Monroe confirmed that the
property was zoned R-4, and provided a copy of R-4 zoning regulations (which were still in effect
at that time). According to Mr. Webber’s recollection, Mr. Monroe explained that zoning
provisions for a Planned Residential Unit Development (PRUD) had recently been repealed, and
that Washington Terrace had hired an attorney to review and update the City’s general plan.

On September 13 or 15, Mr. Webber stated that he and his engineer, Paul Anderson, met with Mr.
Monroe to discuss questions related to setback requirements.1 Mr. Monroe did not comment on
the proposal, and recommended that Mr. Webber contact William Morris, the attorney who had
been hired by the City to consult on land use issues. On September 20, Judy Webber, the realtor
for PFS, met with Mr. Monroe to discuss a site plan. She stated that Mr. Monroe informed her that
he would review the plans and contact Mr. Webber.

The City states that Mr. Webber met with Mr. Monroe on September 21. At this meeting, Mr.
Webber presented a concept drawing for a 60- to 64-unit apartment complex, and asked for an
estimate of filing fees. Mr. Monroe provided this information, but Mr. Webber did not submit an


1 Mr. Anderson recalls that the meeting occurred on September 13, a different date than Mr. Webber.




Advisory Opinion – Scott Webber/Washington Terrace
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 9 2007– page 3 of 13 pages
application, and did not pay any fees. The City stated that Mr. Webber left telephone messages on
September 25 and 26, and that there was no contact with Mr. Webber or PFS until November.

Mr. Webber, however, stated that he again met with Mr. Monroe on October 11. At that meeting,
Mr. Webber stated he confirmed that a three-story building could be built under the R-4 regulations.
Mr. Webber did not state whether his proposed apartment complex was discussed. Mr. Monroe
gave him the name of the architect who designed an apartment complex near the City’s offices,
Eric Tuttle. PFS retained his services, and over the next few weeks, Mr. Tuttle completed plans
for the proposed apartment complex.

On November 8, 2006, Mr. Monroe informed Eric Tuttle that the application for the proposed
apartment complex could not be processed because the City had repealed the “R-4” zoning, and
the property had been rezoned for single family residences only. The PFS owners, Paul Anderson,
and Eric Tuttle met with Mr. Monroe on November 13. At that meeting, Mr. Monroe again
explained that the zoning was being changed, and that the sellers and their real estate agent were
aware of the proposed changes when the property was sold. Because the zoning had been changed,
PFS did not submit a formal application for the apartment complex.

Through the remainder of 2006 and into the spring of 2007, PFS continued to meet and negotiate
with the City. There was a possibility that the City might amend its zoning ordinance to allow the
apartment complex, but this proposal was not approved.

II.       The Zoning Amendment Process

The City indicated that citizen comments and long-standing problems with multi-family
developments prompted a review of its zoning ordinances, beginning in early 2006. In July of that
year, the “Planned Unit Residential Developments” (PRUD) provisions were repealed from the
City Code.2 Over the summer of 2006, the City Council discussed ideas for changes to the City’s
zoning ordinances and general plan. The City scheduled a “Neighborhood Revitalization Open
House” for August 31. The purpose of the open house was to solicit comments and ideas from
citizens about the future residential land use in the City. This meeting was discussed by the City
Council in June and July of 2006, was announced in the City’s newsletter, and was featured in a
story published by the Ogden Standard Examiner.

It is significant that the sellers of the PFS property and their realtor both attended the August 31
meeting, and both commented on the impact that a zone change might have on the property. 3
According to Mr. Webber and PFS, neither the sellers nor their agent indicated to them that a
zoning change was being discussed.



2 PRUDs were a type of multi-family development.
3 Barbara Worth, a realtor, stated that she had a parcel that was under contract, and asked whether that

parcel would be “grandfathered” in under the old code. Ms. Worth did not identify the parcel, the sellers,
or the buyers. Bob Reeder, the seller, commented that he had requested a zone change on the parcel, but
was denied.


Advisory Opinion – Scott Webber/Washington Terrace
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 9 2007– page 4 of 13 pages
The comments and ideas generated at the August 31 meeting were discussed at a Planning
Commission meeting held on September 28, 2006. A staff report for that meeting shows that “the
out come [sic] of the public open house and the comments given” were to be discussed, along with
how those comments might be incorporated into amendments to the City code. No formal
amendment to the City’s zoning ordinance was proposed at that meeting, and no action was taken.

The changes in the City’s general plan and zoning ordinances were considered by the Washington
Terrace Planning Commission in a public hearing conducted on October 26, 2006, and were
approved by the City Council on November 14, 2006. Notices of the proposed zoning changes
were published in the Ogden Standard Examiner on October 13 and November 1, 2006. The
notices announced public hearings for proposed amendments to Title 17 of the City’s code, and
specifically stated that the proposal included repeal of the R-4 provisions.

                                                     Analysis
I.        Washington Terrace had formally initiated a zoning amendment that prohibited the
          used proposed in the PFS application.

Washington Terrace had formally initiated proceedings to amend its zoning ordinances before PFS
submitted its application. When a local government has formally initiated proceedings to change
a zoning ordinance, an application may be denied if it would be prohibited under the amended
ordinance.

          An applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the application
          conforms to the requirements of the municipality's land use maps, zoning map, and
          applicable land use ordinance in effect when a complete application is submitted
          and all fees have been paid, unless:

          . . ..

          (ii) in the manner provided by local ordinance and before the application is
          submitted, the municipality has formally initiated proceedings to amend its
          ordinances in a manner that would prohibit approval of the application as submitted.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(1)(a) (2007) (municipalities); see also § 17-27a-508(1)(a)
(counties).4 This statute codifies the Utah Supreme Court’s ruling in Western Land Equities, Inc.
v. City of Logan, 617 P.2d 388 (Utah 1980):

          [A]n applicant is entitled to a building permit or subdivision approval if his
          proposed development meets the zoning requirements in existence at the time of
          his application and if he proceeds with reasonable diligence, absent a compelling,
          countervailing public interest. Furthermore, if a city or county has initiated
4 These sections were amended by the 2007 Utah Legislature, but the language of subsection (1) was not

changed. This language was in effect in the summer and fall of 2006, when PFS began discussions with the
City.


Advisory Opinion – Scott Webber/Washington Terrace
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 9 2007– page 5 of 13 pages
          proceedings to amend its zoning ordinances, a landowner who subsequently makes
          application for a permit is not entitled to rely on the original zoning classification.

Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 396.

Neither the Utah Code nor published cases define what the phrase “formally initiated proceedings”
means in relation to proposed zoning ordinances. However, the statutory language seems to
indicate something more than merely brainstorming ideas or gathering comments. The statute
requires that the pending ordinance “would prohibit approval of the application as submitted.”
This contemplates that the pending ordinance must have advanced beyond a mere idea so that it is
certain that an application would be denied. In addition, identifying a specific date when a zoning
change is “formally initiated” is important, because if the proposed amendment is not enacted
within 180 days of that date, an applicant is entitled to rely upon the existing zoning requirements.5

It is the opinion of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman that a proposed zoning change
is “formally initiated” when a specific change first appears as an item on a publicly-released
agenda for a planning commission or legislative body, or is announced in a public notice. 6 In other
words, if a proposal to amend a zoning ordinance is placed on an agenda which is then made
available to the public (including via Internet posting), or is announced through a public notice,
the local government has “formally initiated proceedings” to amend its zoning ordinances. Prior
to that date, the provisions of § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(ii) (or § 17-27a-508(1)(a)(ii)) should not apply.

The proposed changes to the Washington Terrace zoning ordinances were formally announced no
later than October 13, 2006, when a notice was published in the Ogden Standard Examiner. This
notice announced a public hearing before the City’s Planning Commission. The notice also
specifically stated that the proposed amendments included repeal of the “R-4 Zone” provisions.
The Planning Commission hearing was conducted on October 26, where the proposed amendments
were approved. Another notice was published on November 1, announcing the public hearing
before the Washington Terrace City Council. This notice also specifically stated that the “R-4
Zone” provisions were proposed to be repealed. The City Council conducted its public hearing on
November 14, and the amendments were approved.

It should be noted that public records show there were discussions related to the proposed changes
prior to October 13. A public meeting was held on August 31, 2006 to solicit public comments on
planning and growth. On September 28, the Planning Commission discussed proposals for
amendments to the zoning ordinances. Although these meetings included the discussions as agenda
items, no specific amendments were announced until the October 13 agenda and public notice.
Thus, the zoning changes were formally initiated no later than October 13, 2006.

The proposed amendments repealed the “R-4 Zone” provisions relied upon by PFS, and also
changed the zoning for the parcel in question. Because PFS did not submit an application and the


5 See Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-509(1)(b) (municipalities); § 17-27a-508(1)(b) (counties).
6 This position is basically the same as that of Provo City.   See Provo City Code, § 14.02.130(1)(a).


Advisory Opinion – Scott Webber/Washington Terrace
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 9 2007– page 6 of 13 pages
zoning changes were enacted, § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(ii) allows the City to deny the application for the
apartment complex.

II.       Washington Terrace is not estopped from denying the PFS application.

A.        Elements of Zoning Estoppel

The theory of zoning estoppel does not require the City to process the PFS application. Utah case
law recognizes that “there are circumstances where it is inequitable to enforce a zoning ordinance.”
Xanthos v. Board of Adjustment of Salt Lake City, 685 P.2d 1032, 1037 (Utah 1984). Such
circumstances are referred to as “zoning estoppel” or “equitable estoppel.”

          [Zoning estoppel prevents] a government entity from exercising its zoning powers
          to prohibit a proposed land use when a property owner, relying reasonably and in
          good faith on some governmental act or omission, has made a substantial change
          in position or incurred such extensive obligations or expenses that it would be
          highly inequitable to deprive the owner of his right to complete his proposed
          development.

Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 391. This doctrine protects property owners and developers
who rely upon acts or representations of government entities or their employees.

          Utah courts have . . . carved out an exception [allowing estoppel] in unusual
          circumstances where it is plain that the interests of justice so require. . . . In cases
          where such an issue arises, the critical inquiry is whether it appears that the facts
          may be found with such certainty, and the injustice suffered is of sufficient gravity,
          to invoke the exception.

Eldrege v. Utah State Retirement Bd., 795 P.2d 671, 675 (Utah Ct App. 1990) (internal quotations
omitted). Estoppel has been raised as a defense against enforcement of zoning regulations,7 and
has also been invoked in efforts to require approval of proposed development.8

Zoning estoppel requires a good faith reliance on a governmental act or omission which leads a
developer to incur significant expense or make substantial changes:

          To invoke the doctrine [of zoning estoppel,] the [government entity] must have
          committed an act or omission upon which the developer could rely in good faith in
          making substantial changes in position or incurring extensive expenses. . . . If the
          claim be based on an omission of the local zoning authority, omission means a
          negligent or culpable omission where the party failing to act was under a duty to do
          so. Silence or inaction will not operate to work an estoppel. Finally, and perhaps


7 See, e.g., Salt Lake County v. Kartchner, 552 P.2d 136 (Utah 1976); Xanthos, 685 P.2d at 1037.
8 See Utah County v. Baxter, 635 P.2d 61, 65 (Utah 1981); Stucker v. Summit County, 870 P.2d 283, 290 (Utah

Ct. App. 1994).


Advisory Opinion – Scott Webber/Washington Terrace
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 9 2007– page 7 of 13 pages
          most importantly, the landowner has a duty to inquire and confer with the local
          zoning authority regarding the uses of the property that would be permitted.

Utah County v. Young, 615 P.2d 1265, 1267-68 (Utah 1980). Purchasing property, even in reliance
on a governmental representation, does not constitute an extensive expense.

          [T]he mere purchase or actual ownership of land [is] inadequate to establish a
          substantial change in position or the incurrence of extensive expenses. Rather,
          something beyond mere ownership of the land is required before the doctrine of
          equitable estoppel will apply, and in most cases the doctrine will not apply absent
          exceptional circumstances.

Stucker v. Summit County, 870 P.2d 283, 290 (Utah Ct. App. 1994).9

B.        When an “Act or Omission” of a Local Zoning Authority Results in Estoppel

As discussed above, a local government may be estopped from imposing its zoning ordinances if
a property owner relies upon an “act or omission” of a government employee. No Utah case has
determined when a government is under a duty to disclose the existence of a pending amendment
to a zoning ordinance.10 There are, however, examples where representations were not sufficient
to constitute zoning estoppel that are useful in this analysis.

In Stucker v. Summit County, supra, property owners claimed that a statement by the director of
the Summit County planning office prevented the county from enacting a rezoning proposal that
would have prohibited commercial development. The Stuckers proposed an auto repair shop on a
parcel in the Snyderville Basin. Under an older code, the parcel was zoned for commercial
development, and the repair shop could have been built.

Among other arguments, the Stuckers cited to a letter from the county planning director to previous
owners, which stated that the planning director was opposed to rezoning the parcel in question.
This letter, they argued, was part of the reason they had decided to purchase the parcel, and so the
county should be estopped from changing the zoning. The Utah Court of Appeals rejected that
argument, in part because the letter from the planning director was a personal opinion, and not
sufficient to bind the county. See Stucker, 870 P.2d at 290.

In Utah County v. Young, supra, property owners built a “barn” on property that was zoned for
agricultural uses only. The owners intended to use the building for a commercial business, and the
building was designed as such, including public restrooms and commercial-quality electrical and
audio equipment. The county prosecuted the property owners for operating a business in violation
of the county’s zoning code. The owners maintained that the county’s building inspector had

9  The Utah Supreme Court also indicated that preconstruction activities, such as preparation of
architectural drawings, may not be sufficient to constitute substantial reliance. See Western Land Equities,
617 P.2d at 392.
10 Section 10-9a-509 of the Utah Code provides that a local government may dismiss an application if there

is a pending ordinance change, but does not impose a duty to disclose pending changes.


Advisory Opinion – Scott Webber/Washington Terrace
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 9 2007– page 8 of 13 pages
represented to them that the building was approved for commercial use. Furthermore, they argued
that the county knew that the building was for commercial purposes, because they informed the
inspector of their intent when the inspections were conducted.

The Utah Supreme Court rejected that argument, holding that the county was not estopped because
of any representations made by its building inspector, or because the county was made aware of
the planned use. The court cited to cases from other states, and concluded that mere knowledge
of the proposed use was not sufficient to estop the county. See Utah County v. Young, 615 P.2d at
1267-68.

Of particular interest in the Young decision is the court’s reliance on a Georgia case, Maloof v.
Gwinnett County.11 In Maloof, the property owner planned to construct and operate a commercial
dog kennel and breeding business. He stated that the local authority had granted permission when
he informed them that he wished to build a dog kennel. However, after he had completed
construction and opened business, the county began legal action to prevent the use. The Georgia
Supreme Court sided with the county, stating that the local officials were not bound because they
were made aware of the landowner’s intended use. See Utah County v. Young, 615 P.2d at 1268.

In Xanthos v. Salt Lake City Board of Adjustment, supra, the property owner argued for zoning
estoppel because the city was aware of how he was using his property for some time prior before
the city sought a restriction on the use. The property owner constructed a duplex on a lot that had
an existing single-family home. The city took action to force him to tear down the existing home,
because the property no longer met zoning regulations. The property owner argued that the older
home had been in existence for over 50 years, and had been identified on all of the plans he had
submitted for approval of the new duplex.

The Utah Supreme Court ruled in favor of the city, primarily because the property owner had
misled the city about the nature of the older building. However, the court did note that simply
because city officials were aware that the building existed did not estop them from enforcing the
city’s zoning ordinances. See Xanthos, 685 P.2d at 1037-38.

The more recent case of Grand County v. Rogers is instructive on what the term “reasonable
reliance” means. In that case a property owner subdivided his property without proper approval
from the county. He recorded deeds that conveyed the property, and argued that since the county
accepted and recorded the deeds, the county could not argue that the property division was illegal.
The Utah Supreme Court held in favor of the county, stating that simply accepting and recording
a deed was not a sufficient representation to justify reliance by the property owner to invoke zoning
estoppel. See Grand County, 2002 UT 25, ¶¶ 24-25, 44 P.3d at 739-40.

Finally, in Alta v. Ben Hame Corp., 836 P.2d 797 (Utah Ct. App. 1992), a city was not estopped
from enforcing its zoning ordinances, even though the property owner had received three business
licenses to operate a business that was not allowed under the zoning ordinances. The property
owner began using its building as temporary lodging, and was given business licenses from the

11 200 S.E.2d 748 (Ga. 1973).




Advisory Opinion – Scott Webber/Washington Terrace
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 9 2007– page 9 of 13 pages
city for nearly two years. The city then discovered that the lodging business violated the city’s
zoning ordinances, and so it obtained an injunction. The Court of Appeals held that mistakenly
granting the business licenses did not justify good faith reliance by the property owner. See Alta,
836 P.2d at 803.

These cases help define the parameters of estoppel based on a representation or omission from a
government employee. Given these guidelines, the building official of Washington Terrace was
not obligated to inform PFS or any other property owner of the potential zoning changes, other
than through the notice provisions established by statute. Like the owners in Xanthos and Young,
PFS could argue that the City was aware of its proposed development, and should have notified
them of a potential conflict with the City’s zoning regulations. However, that argument was
rejected in Xanthos and Young, which held that a local government is not obligated to inform
property owners even if the government is made aware of a potential conflict with zoning
ordinances. 12

C.        Policy Considerations

Imposing a duty to disclose pending ordinance changes as argued by PFS would be inconsistent
with the policy established by the Utah Supreme Court and the Utah Legislature. A policy of clear,
simple, and consistent rules, applicable to all property owners and all local government entities is
favored over individualized “case-by-case” determinations. Otherwise, every zoning ordinance
change would invite litigation by disgruntled property owners who claim they should have been
told about the change so they could have avoided monetary loss.

The Utah Supreme Court rejected those kinds of individualized analyses in Western Land Equities
in favor of a clear rule applicable to all situations. In that landmark case, the Court considered
various approaches used to determine when a land use applicant is entitled to proceed with
development, such as the “set quantum test,” “proportionate test,” and the “balancing test.” The
Court also considered various approaches to “vested rights” rules, and rejected those which
included activity beyond submitting an application. The Court recognized that such individualized
tests are fact intensive, and do not provide predictable guidelines for applicants or government
agencies. See Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 391-395. Instead, the Court adopted a bright
line vested rights rule: An applicant is entitled to approval (with some exceptions) if the proposed
development meets the zoning requirements in existence on the date of the application. Id. 617
P.2d at 396. As was discussed above, this rule was later codified by the Utah Legislature.

PFS argues that the Washington Terrace Building Official should have been obligated to inform
them of potential zoning changes when the official became aware that PFS planned to build an
apartment complex. The building official, Jeff Monroe, should have been aware of any proposed

12 It must also be remembered that PFS was placed on notice of possible ordinance changes when Mr.

Monroe indicated to them that the City had hired a specialist to review and update the City’s general plan.
In addition, the sellers of the parcel were also on notice of the potential changes. Finally, the City complied
with its statutory obligation to notify the public. For these reasons, the facts are not certain enough to
constitute a significant injustice requiring estoppel. See Eldredge, 795 P.2d at 675.


Advisory Opinion – Scott Webber/Washington Terrace
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 9 2007– page 10 of 13 pages
zoning changes, and his name does appear on nearly all of the minutes, agendas, and other
documents associated with the proposed changes. However, given the posture of the decisions
cited herein, and the policies those decisions espouse, no employee of Washington Terrace was
obligated to inform PFS of the potential zoning changes, beyond the already-existing obligation to
notify the public.

Imposing an obligation to inform on local governments and local officials moves away from the
“bright line” vested rights rule adopted by Western Land Equities, and instead requires a fact-
intensive analysis and decision every time a zoning change interferes with a property owner’s
hoped-for but unformulated plans. To conclude that such an obligation exists would require local
governments to endlessly investigate every property owner’s future plans before any zoning
changes could be considered. Such a policy would be impractical, burdensome, and unwieldy, and
is not envisioned in Utah law.

In sum, this Opinion concludes that Washington Terrace is not estopped from denying PFS’s
application to construct an apartment complex. The City’s building official did not have a duty to
inform PFS that the City might change its zoning ordinances. 13 Nothing in Utah law requires
such a duty. Additionally, imposing such an obligation is inconsistent with the policy of Western
Land Equities discouraging individualized, unpredictable analyses. Finally, from a practical
standpoint, a duty to inform could not be applied fairly or universally, and could thus result in
greater inequity than if the duty were imposed.


                                                     Conclusion

Washington Terrace had formally initiated proceedings to amend its zoning ordinance by the time
PFS would have submitted its application. Section 10-9a-509 of the Utah Code provides that a
city may deny an application if an ordinance change is pending when an application is submitted.
The City announced the changes to its zoning ordinance no later than October 13, 2007, when a
notice was published in the Ogden Standard Examiner. Thus, by the time PFS had prepared its
application in November, the zoning ordinance change had been formally initiated.

PFS cannot force the City to accept and process its application, because a City employee did not
inform them of a pending ordinance change. The City was not obligated to inform PFS of the
potential change beyond the requirement to notify the general public, even if it had knowledge of
the plans for the parcel. Utah cases discussing zoning estoppel indicate that a local government’s
mere knowledge of a proposed use or condition does not estop the government from exercising its
zoning powers and rights. Furthermore, imposing a duty to disclose deviates from policy
established by Western Land Equities discouraging individualized, “case-by-case” determinations
in vested rights matters.

13 In addition, PFS has not demonstrated that it substantially changed its position in reliance on the act or

omission of the City, simply because it purchased the parcel and prepared architectural plans. As has been
discussed, those activities do not necessarily constitute “substantial changes in position.” See Western Land
Equities, 617 P.2d at 392; Stucker, 870 P.2d at 290.


Advisory Opinion – Scott Webber/Washington Terrace
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 9 2007– page 11 of 13 pages
This Opinion only evaluates whether PFS should be able to submit and process its land use
application under laws applicable to property use and development, and does not address any other
possible theories of liability. This Opinion should therefore not be read as imposing or excusing
any duty or right upon PFS, Washington Terrace, or any individual other than what is discussed
herein.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, § 13-42-205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may not
reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.




Advisory Opinion – Scott Webber/Washington Terrace
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 9 2007– page 12 of 13 pages
                                              MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with U.C.A. §63-30d-401
(Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of Commerce,
Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as designated in that
database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                    Laura Gamon
                    City Treasurer
                    Washington Terrace City
                    5249 S. South Pointe Dr.
                    Washington Terrace, UT 84405

On this ___________ Day of August, 2007, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                                        ______________________________________________________
                                        Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Scott Webber/Washington Terrace
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 9 2007– page 13 of 13 pages
