                     Advisory Opinion #80
                              Parties: C.E. Buttars and Harrisville City
                                        Issued: December 9, 2009

                                          TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      Q: Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures
                      R(viii): Other Topics (Appealing Land Use Decisions)

A legislative body may modify site plans approved by a planning commission. A
planning commission may not alter zoning ordinances. All property is subject to
reasonable regulation, including nonconforming uses. Regulations which promote
the public health and welfare are valid.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   GREG BELL
Lieutenant Governor




                                           ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                 Harrisville City
                                                     by Michael S. Junk, City Attorney

      Local Government Entity:                       Harrisville City

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:           C.E. Butters

      Project:                                       Parking for Commercial Enterprise

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 December 9, 2009

      Opinion Authored By:                           Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney, Office of the Property
                                                     Rights Ombudsman


                                                     Issues
      I.      Is a City Council review of an appealed land use issue a de novo review, or is it limited to
              only the issue identified in the appeal?

      II.     May a planning commission temporarily allow parking without a hard-surface, when a
              city’s ordinance does not allow parking without a hard-surface?

      III. Is a City’s authority to require site plans limited by a court order?

      IV. May a City enforce new parking ordinances, or may the applicant rely on older regulations?



                                     Summary of Advisory Opinion
      When considering an appeal from a land use decision, an appeal authority has latitude to uphold,
      deny, or modify the decision. There is no reason to conclude that an appeal authority’s scope of
      review may be arbitrarily limited to the question posed or controlled by an appellant.
A planning commission’s primary role is to recommend changes to land use ordinances to a
legislative body, and to approve specific applications when authorized by a local ordinance.
Planning commissions may not alter zoning ordinances, and may not approve uses which are not
allowed by local ordinances. As part of the approval process however, a planning commission
has some discretion to defer compliance with some requirements, when justified, and only for a
limited period of time.

The Judgment and Order issued by the Second District Court does not restrict the City’s
authority to require a site plan for the property. The Order required rezoning of some parcels,
and issued an injunction against future prosecution for parking. Nothing in the Order prevents
the City from requiring a site plan, which is a reasonable requirement that will serve both the
City and the property owners.

All property uses are subject to reasonable regulations, including nonconforming uses. A land
use that was lawfully established before being prohibited by a zoning ordinance may continue,
but remains subject to reasonable regulation. A regulation that promotes the public health,
safety, and welfare is reasonable. Requiring that parking areas be paved serves valid public
interests, is a reasonable burden on the property owner, and does not impact or inhibit the
claimed nonconforming use.

                                              Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-
205. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Harrisville City on May 28, 2009. A copy
of that request was sent via certified mail to Joseph M. Chambers, Attorney for C.E. Butters.
The return certificate, indicating that Mr. Chambers received the copy of the Request, was
received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman on June 2, 2009. Several subsequent
attempts were made to contact Mr. Chambers to request a response. On October 7, 2009, a letter
was sent to Mr. Chambers, requesting a response to the City’s Request. No response from C.E.
Butters has been received.




Advisory Opinion – Butters/Harrisville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 9, 2009– page 2 of 11 pages
                                                     Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

      1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, including attachments, filed May 28, 2009 with the
                  Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman by Michael S. Junk, attorney for
                  Harrisville City, including the following attachments:
                      i. Parcel Map
                     ii. Complaint, filed by SPS Tire & Service Center against Harrisville City,
                         #030900388
                   iii. Harrisville City Ordinances, Chs. 14-2, 4 (old), and 4 (new)
                    iv. Memorandum Decision, Case No. 030900388
                     v.  Zoning Map, showing proposed areas for rezoning
                    vi. Letter, Michael S. Junk to Joseph M. Chambers, dated January 23, 2007
                   vii. Minutes of the September 10, 2008 meeting of the Harrisville City Council
                  viii. Notice of Appeal of Conditional Use Permit, dated October 17, 2008, filed by
                         Kevin Butters, agent for C.E. Butters/SPS Tire & Service Center
                    ix. Letter from Greg Montgomery to Harrisville City Council, dated November 5,
                         2008
                     x.  Legal Opinion, prepared by Michael S. Junk for Harrisville City Council,
                         dated December 10, 2008
                    xi. Response to Legal Opinion, submitted by Joseph M. Chambers, attorney for
                         SPS Tire & Service Center, dated February 24, 2009
                   xii. Reply to Response, prepared by Michael S. Junk, dated March 4, 2009
                  xiii. Letter from Greg Montgomery to Harrisville City Council, dated March 9,
                         2009
                  xiv.   Harrisville City Ordinances, Ch. 11.18, Conditional Use Permits


                                                  Background
C.E. Butters Realty & Construction owns property in Harrisville, and operates a business known
as SPS Tire and Service Center (“Butters”). 1 The business has been on the property for several
years. 2 According to Butters an adjoining parcel was used as parking and servicing of vehicles
during that time. The adjoining parcel was in an agricultural zone, while the business was
located on another parcel in a commercial zone. Both parcels were purchased by the Butters
Company in 2001.



1
  It appears that the business consists of three parcels, which are owned by C.E. Butters and SPS. For the purposes
of this Opinion, the property owners will be referred to as “Butters.”
2
  The existing building and business was a non-conforming use established by a previous owner. The business was
evidently established before the City’s ordinances prohibited it. It is not clear if parking on the adjoining parcel was
legally established.

Advisory Opinion – Butters/Harrisville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 9, 2009– page 3 of 11 pages
In 1994, the City granted a building permit to the previous owners, so they could expand their
existing building. According to Butters, the City specifically agreed that an adjoining parcel
could be used for parking associated with the business. The City’s Planning Commission also
approved a conditional use permit for the expansion, including use of a portion of the adjoining
parcel for parking and servicing. Butters proceeded with the expansion, and continued to use the
adjoining parcel for parking and servicing vehicles. 3 The parcel was not paved.

In 2001, the City cited Butters for land use violations, claiming that parking on the adjoining
parcel was not permitted in an Agricultural Zone. Butters continued to use the parcel for parking
and servicing, and requested that the City rezone the parcel to commercial, which would allow
parking. After a public hearing, the City Council denied the request.

Butters appealed the decision to the Second District Court. In 2006, following a two-day trial,
the court found that the City was obligated to rezone the parcel to commercial. 4 The City did not
appeal that ruling, and proceeded to rezone the parcel to commercial. When Butters began
constructing a new driveway on the parcel, the City requested that the company file a site plan. 5

Butters filed a plan, and requested approval for “private overflow parking” on an unpaved area of
the parcel. On October 10, 2008, the City’s Planning Commission conducted a public hearing on
the site plan approval. The Company’s owners stated that they were considering a new building
in the “private overflow parking” area, but that they had no current plans for the building. They
did not want to pave the area, only to remove the paving later for a new building.

The Planning Commission was concerned about dust and other contamination on the overflow
parking area. Butters noted that the area had gravel, and that the company tried to control dust
and weeds. The company also stated that it had been using the area as parking for at least ten
years. After some discussion, the Planning Commission approved the site plan with some
conditions. One of those conditions allowed parking in the overflow area, provided gravel was
laid down. Parking in that area could not exceed three years. After three years, Butters could
revisit the parking situation with the City and seek approval for more time, or pave the overflow
area. 6

Butters appealed the Planning Commission’s approval to the City Council, as provided by the
City’s ordinances. Butters specifically stated that it was only appealing the Paving Requirement.
In its appeal, the company requested that the City Council drop the Paving Requirement
altogether.

After some research into the issue, the City Council conducted a public hearing on the appeal on
March 10, 2009. At that meeting, the Council voted to modify the Paving Requirement by
3
  The building expansion extended into yet another adjoining parcel, which was zoned as residential.
4
  The Court based is decision on the principle of zoning estoppel. The Court reasoned that since the City had
approved the permit in 1994 with specific reference to parking on the adjoining parcel, the City could not claim that
parking was prohibited.
5
  The driveway was not public, but only served the property.
6
  The Company stated that the overflow parking was “temporary,” but did not give a time frame indicating when the
area would no longer be used for parking. The Planning Commission was not willing to allow an unlimited
“temporary” parking approval.

Advisory Opinion – Butters/Harrisville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 9, 2009– page 4 of 11 pages
eliminating the three-year period, thus requiring paving immediately if the overflow area is used
for parking. The Council noted that the City’s ordinances required parking areas to be paved. 7
Since Butters was undertaking new construction (by building the driveway), the Council
reasoned that the company was required to comply with current requirements. The matter was
remanded back to the Planning Commission, with instructions that the Commission implement
the requirements of the City’s current zoning ordinances.

The company objects to the Paving Requirement, and claims nonconforming use status to
continue to use the property for parking without paving. Butters also invokes a zoning estoppel
argument, based on the 1994 conditional use permit, and the 2006 Order from the Second
District Court.

                                                   Analysis
I.       The City’s Appeal Authority May Uphold, Reverse, or Modify any Aspect of a
         Decision on a Land Use Application.

The Paving Requirement could be modified on appeal, because an appeal authority has power to
modify decisions. The Utah Code allows local governments to designate appeal authorities to
consider appeals from land use decisions. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-701(1). Different
appeal authorities may be assigned for different types of appeals, including appeals to a city
council. Id. It appears that under the prior language of the Harrisville City ordinances, the City
Council considered appeals from the Planning Commission’s decisions on site plans.

Butters argues that the City Council could only consider the limited question of the whether the
three-year Paving Requirement should be dropped altogether, and that it was not authorized to
alter the requirement. However, the Council may uphold, reverse or modify a decision. Nothing
in the materials that were submitted supports an argument that the City Council’s authority is
limited. Any appeal authority enjoys latitude to determine whether a land use decision was
correct, UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-707(3), and there is no reason to conclude that its review must
be limited to a single question only, or be arbitrarily controlled by an appellant. 8

Even if the City Council’s scope of review is limited to the issue identified by Butters, the City
Council issued a decision on the very issue identified in the appeal. Butters got what it asked
for—a decision on the Paving Requirement. The City Council determined that the Planning
Commission had misinterpreted the City’s ordinances, and removed the provision allowing
parking in the unpaved area for a limited time. However, it retained the requirement that the
parking area be paved.



7
  A new ordinance governing parking had recently been adopted. However, the paving requirement was also in the
older ordinance, which dates to at least 1995.
8
  There may be multiple issues raised in an appeal that can be best resolved by the City Council before extensive
litigation is undertaken. In addition, only those issues presented to an appeal authority for decision may be argued
before a district court. See Pacific West Communities, Inc. v. Grantsville City, 2009 UT App 291, ¶ 19. Limiting an
appeal authority’s scope may cause a party to forfeit an issue for appeal.

Advisory Opinion – Butters/Harrisville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 9, 2009– page 5 of 11 pages
II.      The Planning Commission is Not Authorized to Grant a Use Not Allowed in the City’s
         Ordinances, But May Allow an Applicant a Reasonable Time for Compliance.

A planning commission exercises broad authority over land use applications, but that authority
does not include the power to approve uses not otherwise allowed. Planning commissions make
recommendations to legislative bodies on land use issues, but are not authorized to alter land use
ordinances. 9 If a use is not allowed, a planning commission may not approve an application
seeking to undertake that use. To do otherwise would amount to legislatively amending an
ordinance to add a use in the zone.

Butters proposed that it be allowed to use an unpaved area for “overflow parking.” The company
stated that it was considering using that area for a building, and, although there were no plans for
construction, leaving the area unpaved would accommodate construction if and when it was
undertaken. The Planning Commission seemed to agree, but did not want to approve a perpetual
right to park in the unpaved area. Evidently as a means of compromise, the Commission allowed
parking in the unpaved area for a three-year period, with the provision that Butters could then
return to the Commission for possible renewal or alteration of the site plan.

The City’s ordinances do not provide for the type of “temporary” parking approved by the
Planning Commission. Parking is allowed in the CP-2 zone, provided it meets the City’s
standards, which include paved surfaces. The Commission approved a type of parking that does
not satisfy the City’s standards. No planning commission may do that.

However, it is possible that the commission could have deferred the requirement that the area be
paved. Section 11.22.050 of the City’s ordinances provides that some site improvements may be
deferred. 10 The property owner and the City may enter a written agreement outlining a
timeframe to complete the improvements. 11 If the Planning Commission could have
accommodated Butters by allowing them time to pave the parking area, and having them enter a
written agreement promising to comply with the City’s standards within a reasonable time.

III. The City’s Authority to Require a Site Plan is not Limited by the Court Order.

Nothing could be found in the order issued by the Second District Court prohibiting the City
from requiring Butters to file a site plan. The Court ordered the City to rezone parcels owned by
Butters from residential to commercial. The City Council had refused the rezoning request, and
the property owners appealed. The Court entered extensive findings of fact, and concluded that
the City’s denial of the rezoning was unreasonable. The Court signed a Judgment on October 5,
2006, ordering the following:


9
   See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-302 (Planning commissions may recommend ordinance changes to a legislative
body, but they are not authorized to approve the changes).
10
   The current language of Chapter 11.22 was adopted in April of 2009. It is not known if the deferment provision
was in earlier versions of the code. However, even without specific authorization, under some circumstances it
would reasonable to allow a property owner time to comply.
11
   This approach differs from what the Planning Commission actually did. There was no agreement or promise to
comply, only an allowance that The Butters Company could continue to park on an unpaved area of their lot.

Advisory Opinion – Butters/Harrisville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 9, 2009– page 6 of 11 pages
            Harrisville City is hereby ordered to designate all of parcel 0015 and south 200
            feet of parcel 0066 as commercial (CP-2). The remainder of parcel 0066 is
            designated necessary parking for the vehicles being serviced at the SPS facility.
            Harrisville City is enjoined from prosecuting Plaintiffs for using any portion of
            parcel number 0066 and parcel 0015 as parking or temporary storage of vehicles
            being actually serviced and repaired at the repair facility. . . .

            Harrisville City is further ordered to designate as commercial (CP-2) all of parcel
            0018 and the south portion of parcel 0017 which lies within the commercial zone
            on Harrisville City’s Future Land Use Plan and Map. . . .

Judgment, Case No. 030900388 (October 5, 2006), at 2-3. 12              The City did not appeal the
decision, and rezoned the parcels.

The Court’s order required rezoning and contained a prohibition against further prosecution for
parking on two of the parcels involved. No other action was required or prohibited. The order
therefore does not preclude the City from requiring a site plan for the parcels.

Submitting a site plan does not constitute an excessive burden on the property owners.
Furthermore, a site plan may be beneficial to both the City and the property owners. The Court
noted that the dispute between Butters and the City has been marked by confusion and
uncertainty. For example, the precise location of buildings and even property lines seemed to be
a significant factor in the dispute. An accurate site plan of the business and the parcels will help
avoid similar problems and conflicts in the future.

Butters states that the City may not require a site plan, because parking on the parcels is a
nonconforming use. The Company relies upon Hugoe v. Woods Cross City, a case decided by the
Utah Court of Appeals. 13 The Hugoe decision held that a use may be legally established, and
thus potentially entitled to nonconforming status, even if some requirements were not satisfied.

In Hugoe, a property owner claimed that parking on its property was a nonconforming use,
because the parking had been established before zoning ordinances prohibited the use. The city
argued that the property owner had never submitted a required site plan. Since the site plan was
required, the use was not “legally” established, and the property owner could not claim
nonconforming use status. The Court of Appeals rejected that argument, holding that failure to
submit a required site plan did not invalidate the nonconforming use. 14 In other words, parking
was a permitted use whether a site plan is filed or not.

The reliance on Hugoe is misplaced. Butters argues that no site plan is required, because they
claim nonconforming use status. That is not what the Hugoe decision holds. The Court of
Appeals did not hold that a site plan could not be required, only that a failure to file a site plan in



12
   The Court’s order included property descriptions of the parcels.
13
   1999 UT App 281, 988 P.2d 456.
14
   Id., 1999 UT App 281, ¶ 10, 988 P.2d at 459 (emphasis added).

Advisory Opinion – Butters/Harrisville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 9, 2009– page 7 of 11 pages
the past did not affect whether a particular use had been legally established. The site plan does
not dictate whether a use is permitted, nor does it impact how the use is carried out. 15

Since the site plan serves an important purpose that benefits both the City and Butters, and
because filing a plan is not an excessive burden, requiring a plan is acceptable.

IV.      The City May Require Compliance with Current Parking Ordinances.

Since all property uses are subject to reasonable regulation, Butters must comply with the City’s
current standards for parking lots, including paving. Butters claims that it is exempt from
regulation because parking on its property was established before the City’s ordinances required
paving. 16 However, nonconforming use status simply means an established use that would no
longer be permitted may continue, not that it is exempt from regulation. The Utah Supreme
Court recognized this principle in Gibbons & Reed Company v. North Salt Lake, 19 Utah 2d 329,
431 P.2d 559 (1967). That case dealt with a city’s attempt to prevent excavation of sand and
gravel from a parcel that had been rezoned as residential. The Utah Supreme Court agreed that
since excavation on the parcel had been established prior to the rezoning, it could continue as a
nonconforming use.

The city had also enacted ordinances governing how excavation was to be conducted. 17 The
court recognized that those ordinances were different than zoning regulations:

            The police power conferred upon this municipality must be exercised to provide
            for the safety, promote the general welfare, or to preserve the health of that
            community. Under that power the [city] enacted this excavation ordinance. This
            excavation ordinance must be examined differently than the zoning ordinance
            since it is a safety ordinance and nonconforming uses giving owners more freedom
            from such regulation cannot be established.

Gibbons & Reed, 19 Utah 2d at 337, 431 P.2d at 565 (citation omitted). In other words, a
nonconforming use is still subject to reasonable health and safety regulations.

In Gibbons & Reed, the court referred to a U.S. Supreme Court case which upheld a local
ordinance regulating excavation activity. In Goldblatt v. Town of Hempstead, a town enacted an
ordinance prohibiting excavation below the water table, in order to prevent contamination to
underground water. 18 The Supreme Court upheld the ordinance, even though it effectively
deprived the property owner of the most beneficial use of the property. The Court held that the
ordinance was a valid exercise of the town’s police power:



15
    In addition, parking is no longer a nonconforming use, because it is permitted under the new zoning designation.
16
   As has been explained, parking on the property is no longer a nonconforming use.
17
   The ordinance prohibited excavation within 200 feet of a property boundary, required the owner to prepare contour
maps of each excavated parcel, and required a rehabilitation plan for each parcel.
18
   See Gibbons & Reed, 19 Utah 2d at 337-38, 431 P.2d at 565, (citing Goldblatt v. Town of Hempstead, 369 U.S. 590
(1962)).

Advisory Opinion – Butters/Harrisville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 9, 2009– page 8 of 11 pages
            The ordinance in question was passed as a safety measure, and the town is
            attempting to uphold it on that basis. To evaluate its reasonableness we therefore
            need to know such things as the nature of the menace against which it will protect,
            the availability and effectiveness of other less drastic steps, and the loss which
            appellants will suffer from the imposition of the ordinance.

Goldblatt v. Town of Hempstead, 369 U.S. 590, 595 (1962). The Court concluded that there was
not enough evidence to sustain a finding that the ordinance was unreasonable. In contrast,
however, the Utah Supreme Court found that the local ordinance at issue in Gibbons & Reed was
unreasonable, because the burden on the property owner outweighed the public benefit. 19

The parcel that Butters proposes for parking is in a much different situation than the parcel to be
excavated in Gibbons & Reed. Paving the area is a comparatively small burden that does not in
any way affect the use of the parcel for parking or even long-term storage of vehicles. The same
number of vehicles will be able to park on the parcel whether it is paved or not. Since the use
(parking) will not be diminished in any way, the property owner will not suffer any loss due to
the paving requirement.

Butters claims the paving requirement will impact their plans for a new building on the unpaved
area. However, they have no current plans for a building. Paving does not preclude constructing
a building in the future. Admittedly, there are some minor additional costs to remove paving
materials, but the public benefits of paving justify imposing the requirement. If Butters wishes
to construct a building, they should apply for a building permit and begin construction. If they
continue to use the parcel for parking, it must be paved.

Paving the parking area will help prevent contamination, reduce dust and mud, restrict the
growth of weeds, and will control storm water runoff. In addition, paving the area will
contribute to the aesthetics of the area. 20 These are important public concerns, and the City may
impose regulations designed to promote them. 21 An impermeable paving surface, such as asphalt
or concrete, is the best alternative to prevent contamination and weed growth. Therefore, the
City’s requirement that all parking areas be paved is reasonable, and may be imposed upon the
Butters property. 22


19
   The court specifically cited the cost of preparing a contour map, and the impossibility of preparing a rehabilitation
plan, “because prior to excavation it is almost impossible to determine where the deposits lie.” Gibbons & Reed, 19
Utah 2d at 338, 431 P.2d at 566. The unique facts of Gibbons & Reed, along with the societal and economic values
of the era in which it was decided helped drive the court’s analysis and decision. If the same matter were considered
today, there is a strong possibility that the ordinance would be upheld. See e.g., Dock Watch Hollow Quarry Pit v.
Township of Warren, 361 A.2d 12 (N.J. Super. Ct. App. Div. 1976) (upholding buffer zone as reasonable means to
protect adjoining properties).
20
   Other nearby businesses have paved parking areas.
21
   See e.g., State v. Larson Transfer and Storage, 246 N.W.2d 176 (Minn. 1976) (paving parking areas serves
important public interests, including safety and aesthetics); Watanabe v. Phoenix, 683 P.2d 1177 (Ariz. App. 1984).
22
   Butters also raised the question of whether the City’s interpretation of “paving” means an impervious surface such
as asphalt or concrete. A local government is allowed a degree of nonbinding deference when interpreting its own
ordinances and requirements. A solid, impervious surface best serves the public’s interest, so the City may require
asphalt or concrete.

Advisory Opinion – Butters/Harrisville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 9, 2009– page 9 of 11 pages
In a similar situation, the Arizona Court of Appeals upheld a local ordinance which required
paving of parking areas, even if the parking was a nonconforming use. “While nonconforming
uses existing at the time zoning ordinance became effective cannot be prohibited, they are
subject to reasonable regulations under the police power to protect the public health, safety,
welfare, or morals.” Watanabe v. Phoenix, 683 P.2d 1177, 1179 (Ariz. Ct. App. 1984). 23 The
Arizona court also noted that paving “has no effect upon the nonconforming use,” because, like
the Butters property, paving did not reduce or increase the number of vehicles that could be
parked on the parcel.

In sum, simply because a use predated a zoning ordinance which prohibits it does not mean that
the use is not subject to reasonable regulations. The power to regulate by zoning implicates
different interests than the general police power to regulate. All legal uses are subject to
reasonable regulations, regardless of when the use was first established. Since paving a parking
area is a reasonable means to promote important public interests, Butters must pave the parcel. 24

                                                 Conclusion
The Harrisville City Council’s decision to alter the site plan approval granted by the City’s
Planning Commission was permissible. An appeal authority has latitude to approve, overturn, or
modify a decision. No authority has been cited that limits an appeal authority’s scope of review
to only limited questions raised in an appeal. In this matter, the property owners requested that
the City Council review one condition imposed by the Planning Commission. The City reviewed
that condition, and altered it, which is within their authority.

A planning commission’s role is primarily to recommend land use decisions to a legislative body,
and when authorized, to approve some land use applications. A planning commission may not
approve a land use that is not permitted, nor may it unilaterally alter a zoning ordinance. In this
matter, the City’s Planning Commission “temporarily” approved parking on an unpaved surface.
Such a use is not permitted under the City’s zoning ordinances, and the Planning Commission
may not approve it.

The Judgment and Order issued by the Second District Court requires that the City rezone certain
areas, and enjoins the City from preventing parking on two parcels owned by Butters. Nothing
in the Order prevents the City from requiring a site plan for the property. Both the City and the
property owner are served by a site plan, because it should help clear up some of the confusion
that has plagued this matter. Since a site plan serves a valid purpose, and is a small imposition
upon the property owners, it is a reasonable condition.

Finally, all uses are subject to reasonable regulation, including nonconforming uses. A use that is
lawfully established prior to being prohibited may continue, but it is still subject to regulation.
23
   See also Rhod-A-Zalea and 35th, Inc. v. Snohonish County, 959 P.2d 1024, 1031 (Wash. 1998); Miller & Son
Paving, Inc. v. Wrightstown, 401 A.2d 392, 393 (Pa. Commw. Ct. 1979); Dock Watch Hollow, 361 A.2d at 20.
24
   Requiring paving would not be inconsistent with the Judgment issued by the Second District Court. The court
enjoined the City from prosecuting Butters for parking and storing vehicles on two parcels. That injunction,
however, does not mean that the City may not regulate how parking is to be carried out. Furthermore, it appears that
the two parcels identified in the Judgment are already paved.

Advisory Opinion – Butters/Harrisville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 9, 2009– page 10 of 11 pages
Paving promotes the public health, safety, and welfare by reducing dust and mud, preventing soil
contamination, restricting weeds, controlling storm water, and contributing to the aesthetics of
the area. Paving also has no impact on the claimed nonconforming use, and is a relatively small
burden on the property owner. Since the public benefit outweighs the burden on the property
owner, the City may require that all parking areas be paved.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Butters/Harrisville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 9, 2009– page 11 of 11 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

           Richard Hendrix, Mayor
           Harrisville City
           363 W. Independence Blvd.
           Harrisville, Utah 84404

On this ___________ Day of December, 2009, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
