                     Advisory Opinion #24
                            Parties: Rory Ukena and South Weber City
                                        Issued: November 1, 2007

                                       TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      D: Exactions on Development

Cities can impose exactions upon issuance of building permits or subdivision plat
approvals, if the exactions satisfy rough proportionality analysis. The exaction
must be justified by the impact caused by the development only, and not on need
anticipated by future development.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                                      State of Utah
                                      Department of Commerce
  JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
                                      OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor



                                                             ADVISORY OPINION
                           Water Line Upgrade as a Condition of Subdivision Approval

            Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                 Rory Ukena

            Local Government Entity:                                       South Weber City

            Project:                                                       Subdivision Plat Approval

            Opinion Authored By:                                           Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney
                                                                           Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

            Date of this Advisory Opinion:                                 November 1, 2007


                                                                            Issue
            May South Weber City validly require the developer of a three-lot subdivision to replace a 6-inch
            water line with a new 8-inch line?

                                                      Summary of Advisory Opinion
            The City’s requirement that the developer replace an existing water line with a larger line is an
            exaction which must meet the “Nollan/Dolan” rough proportionality analysis. The City does
            have a legitimate interest in maintaining adequate water service, and installing a larger-capacity
            water line is a reasonable means of accomplishing that objective. However, the impact of a
            three-lot subdivision is not proportional to costs and burden of installing the larger line. There is
            no finding that two additional homes will create the need for a larger water line in that area. For
            this reason, the City may not impose the full burden of installing the new water line on the
            property owner.

                                                                          Review
            A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
            decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Utah Code Ann. § 13-43-
            205. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
            administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use


160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from Rory Ukena on October 8, 2007. As
provided in statute, a letter with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return receipt
requested, to Joseph E. Gertge, Mayor of South Weber City, at 1600 East South Weber Drive,
South Weber, Utah 84405. The return receipt was signed and was received on October 15, 2007,
indicating that it had been received by the City.

                                           Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

   1.      Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Rory Ukena, and received by the
           Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, October 9, 2007.
   2.      In a telephone conversation, the attorney for South Weber City, Stephen Noel,
           indicated that the City had no issue with the characterization of the issue as presented
           in the Request, and that no formal response would be needed.
   3.      Title 11 of the South Weber City Code, governing subdivisions.


                                       Assumed Facts
   1.      It is assumed that the existing water line which crosses the property also serves the
           home located on that property.
   2.      It is assumed that the easements identified on the subdivision plats may be relocated
           or terminated.


                                         Background
In 2007, Rory Ukena proposed a minor subdivision, located at approximately 1750 East and
7600 South in South Weber, Utah. The proposal divided an existing 1.25 acre parcel into three
lots. The plat included dedication of property for a portion of 7600 South, which was proposed
to be aligned with lots 1 and 2 on one side, with lot 3 on the other side. The proposed road
would be mostly straight, and would curve slightly northward at the eastern end of the parcel.
An existing home straddles the boundary line of lots 1 and 2. According to the plat submitted by
the property owners, lots 1 and 2 would “remain consolidated” until the home is demolished.
Lot 3 shows a small shed, but no other structures.

Existing water and sewer lines run beneath the parcel, and are located approximately where the
proposed road would be located. The City appears to own a waterline easement across the
parcel. This easement enters the parcel at about the middle of the western edge. About one-
fourth of the way through the parcel, the easement veers to the north. While most of the
easement is located within the proposed roadway, the eastern portion is not.

An existing water line, 6 inches is in diameter, is located entirely within the proposed roadway.
A sewer line runs parallel to the water line. The City informed the property owners that the
subdivision would require that an 8 inch water main be installed beneath the center of the road.
The waterline easement does not follow the existing water line, nor would it follow the new line
if it were installed beneath the proposed roadway. The Request for Advisory Opinion did not
state whether the City had proposed any requirements for sewer or any other utility.

In a telephone conversation, the City Attorney for South Weber City informed the Office of the
Property Rights Ombudsman that the Request submitted by the property owners accurately stated
the factual background of the proposed subdivision. The attorney further stated that the legal
issues were simple and straightforward, and that the City felt that a formal response from the
City was unnecessary.



                                                    Analysis
        The City’s Requirement that the Property Owners Install a Larger Water
        Line is an Improper Exaction, Because the Extent of the Requirement is not
        Proportional to the Impact of the Proposed Subdivision.

A.    The Water Line Requirement is an Exaction, which is Subject to the Rough Proportionality
      Analysis Required by § 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code.

The City’s requirement that the property owners replace the existing 6-inch water line with an 8-
inch line is an improper exaction, because the impact of the proposed subdivision is not
proportionate to the costs of replacing the water lines. “Exactions are conditions imposed by
governmental entities on developers for the issuance of a building permit or subdivision plat
approval.” B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 34, 128 P.3d 1161,
1169. The term “exaction” includes any condition on development, including not only
dedication of property, but also payment of money, installation of specific improvements, or
other requirements imposed by a public entity. Furthermore, the term “exaction” includes
conditions imposed by a general legislative enactment as well as those imposed by decisions or
negotiations on specific proposals. Id., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 46, 128 P.3d at 1170. 1

Jurisdictions across the United States have struggled with the scope of the rough proportionality
analysis, and whether it should be applied to conditions which do not require an actual dedication
of property. The Texas Court of Appeals discussed the applicability the “Nollan/Dolan”
proportionality analysis to those types of conditions. The court noted that several jurisdictions

1 There has been a great deal of debate over whether the proportionality test applies to conditions imposed by

general enactments (“legislative”) as well as specific development decisions (“adjudicative”). The Utah Supreme
Court held that the test should apply to all exactions, and noted that the Legislature also requires analysis for all
exactions. B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 46, 128 P.3d at 1170 (citing the enactment of § 10-9a-508).
had expanded applicability of the “Nollan/Dolan” test to include nondedicatory conditions. The
Texas court concluded that federal law requires applying the proportionality test to “non-
dedicatory” conditions.

        It is the imposition of land use conditions in individual cases, authorized by a
        permit scheme which by its nature allows for both the discretionary deployment
        of the police power and an enhanced potential for its abuse, that constitutes the
        sine qua non for application of the . . . standard of scrutiny formulated by the
        court in Nollan and Dolan.

Town of Flower Mound v. Stafford Estates, L.P., 71 S.W.3d 18, 36 (Tex. App. 2002) (quotation
omitted). The Utah Supreme Court also held that the proportionality analysis should apply to
exactions and conditions in which a developer is required to provide some sort of public
improvement. B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 46, 128 P.3d at 1170.

Requiring a developer to install a new water line is thus an “exaction,” because it is a condition
imposed by the County that must be agreed to by the developer to gain approval of the proposed
subdivision. 2

In 2005, the Utah Legislature enacted Section 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code, which authorizes
cities to impose exactions on new development, and also prescribes limits on that authority:

        A county may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in a land
        use application provided that:

        (1) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
        exaction; and

        (2) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
        impact of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-508(1). 3 The Utah Supreme Court noted that the language of this
statute was borrowed directly from the U.S. Supreme Court analyses in Nollan v. California
Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825, 107 S.Ct. 3141 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374,
114 S.Ct. 2309 (1994). See B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 41, 128 P.2d at 1170. In those two cases, the
Supreme Court promulgated rules for determining when an exaction is valid under the federal
constitution’s Takings Clause. 4 This has come to be known as the Nollan/Dolan “rough
proportionality” test, and that two-part analysis is reflected in § 10-9a-508. In order to be valid,

2 “It is in this paradigmatic permit context–where the individual property owner-developer seeks to negotiate
approval of a planned development–that the combined Nollan and Dolan test quintessentially applies.” Flower
Mound, 71 S.W.3d at 34. The Flower Mound case concerned a city’s requirement that the developer of a new
subdivision construct improvements on an arterial road near the subdivision. The developer was not required to
dedicate any property for the road, but was required to install the improvements.
3
  There is a corresponding statute applicable to counties found at § 17-27a-507 of the Utah Code.
4
  See U.S. Const., amend V. The Supreme Court has interpreted the Takings Clause as limiting a government’s
ability to impose conditions on development. Furthermore, “[t]he Utah Constitution reinforces the protection of
private property against uncompensated governmental takings . . ..” B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 31, 128 P.3d at 1168. See
also Utah Const. art. I, § 22.
then, the City’s requirement that the property owner install a new 8-inch water line must satisfy
the rough proportionality test.

B.   There is an Essential Link Between the Water Line Requirement and the Legitimate
     Government Objective that New Development Receive Adequate Water Service.

There is an essential link between the City’s condition that the developer install a larger water
line and the City’s legitimate interest in maintaining adequate water service. Providing public
utilities, such as culinary water, enhances the public health, which is a legitimate government
interest. See Rupp v. Grantsville City, 610 P.2d 338, 339-40 (Utah 1980); see also Summit Water
Distribution Co. v. Mountain Regional Water Special Serv. Dist., 2005 UT App. 66, ¶¶ 11-14,
108 P.3d 119, 121-22. Requiring developers to install water mains that serve new development
is a reasonable means to promote that interest. See Rupp, 610 P.2d at 339-40. Thus, there is an
essential link between the county’s legitimate interest of providing adequate water service and
the requirement that the new subdivision install a new water line.

C.    The City has not Shown that the Proposed Subdivision Will Require a Larger Water Line

The City’s condition proposed does not pass the second part of the analysis required by § 10-9a-
508, however. The City has not shown that installing a larger water line is proportionate to the
impact caused by the proposed subdivision. There has been no finding that two additional homes
on the subdivided parcel require increasing the size of the water line from six inches to eight. 5 It
is particularly noteworthy that there is already a 6-inch line crossing the parcel. In order to
validly require installation of the new line, the City would need to demonstrate why the two
additional homes—and only those two homes— cause the need to increase the size of the water
line. 6

The City may foresee a need to upgrade its water system in this area (which appears to be
developing), and may therefore may decide that a larger water line is necessary for future
service. The City may charge impact fees on new construction, to help pay for water system
improvements, but it cannot impose the full cost and burden of an upgrade upon this property
owner. The City has not shown that the impact of the three-lot subdivision justifies making Mr.
Ukena pay for enlarging the capacity of the City’s water system. For this reason, the City’s
requirement that a larger water line be installed at Mr. Ukena’s is an invalid exaction.



                                                  Conclusion
The City cannot validly require the property owner to bear the full cost of installing a larger
water line. The requirement is a form of exaction, which satisfy the “Nollan/Dolan” takings
analysis. The City has a legitimate interest in maintaining and improving its culinary water
system, and installing lines with larger capacities is a reasonable means of promoting that

5
  The subdivision proposes three lots, but there is already a home on the parcel. Thus, the subdivision will result in
two additional homes.
6
  Note that the same analysis would apply if the City only required replacement of the 6-inch line. The City has not
shown that the impact caused by the new homes would require replacement of the existing water line.
interest. However, the impact of the proposed three-lot subdivision is not proportional to the
costs and burden of replacing an existing water line with a larger line. While the City may have
a legitimate need to increase the capacity of its water system, it cannot impose the full burden of
that upgrade upon this proposed subdivision.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, § 13-42-205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

       Mayor Joseph E. Gertge
       South Weber City
       1600 E. South Weber Drive
       South Weber, UT 84405

On this ___________ Day of November, 2007, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
