                     Advisory Opinion #54
                        Parties: Gary McDougal and City of Eagle Mountain
                                        Issued: November 5, 2008

                                          TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      E: Entitlement to Application Approval (Vesting)
                      J: Requirements Imposed Upon Development
                      R(viii): Other Topics (Interpretation of Ordinances)

Setback requirements are primarily imposed when construction begins, but a
developer may rely upon existing setbacks when designing a subdivision plat. To
the extent that existing setbacks were relied upon, a developer may claim vested
rights in those ordinances.        Local ordinances which unreasonably limit
construction on approved lots may be invalid.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                         State of Utah
                         Department of Commerce
JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
       Governor
                         OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 GARY R. HERBERT
 Lieutenant Governor



                                         ADVISORY OPINION
                                   Vested Rights in Setback Ordinance


       Advisory Opinion Requested by:              Gary McDougal

       Local Government Entity:                    Eagle Mountain City

       Applicant for the Land Use Approval:        Musketeer, LLC/Valley View AB, LLC
                                                   Howard C. Freiss Construction, Inc.
                                                   Lyne Coy

       Project:                                    Residential Subdivision

       Date of this Advisory Opinion:              November 5, 2008

       Opinion Authored By:                        Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney, Office of the Property
                                                   Rights Ombudsman


                                                   Issues
       May a local government impose new setback requirements on a subdivision that had been
       approved before the new ordinance was enacted?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
       Setback requirements are typically found within the zoning ordinances, but are primarily a
       function of construction upon a lot. A complete building permit application that complies with
       setback ordinances in place will vest the developer in those setbacks. Nevertheless, when making
       a subdivision application, a developer may reasonably rely upon existing setback ordinances and
       building code provisions when designing lot layouts and orientation. To the extent that a
       developer reasonably relied on setback ordinances in designing the development, the developer
       vests in those ordinances at the time of subdivision application. A community cannot approve a
       subdivision with narrow lots, and then modify setbacks or other building ordinances to such an
       extent that renders building upon the approved lots impossible or impractical.
                                                          Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or
other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such
a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

A request for Arbitration/Mediation was received from Musketeer, LLC on March 6, 2008.
Mediation requests were subsequently received from Howard C. Freiss Construction, Inc. on
April 17, 2008, and from Lyne Coy on April 21, 2008. All three requests concerned essentially
the same issue. Letters with the requests attached were delivered to Eagle Mountain City. It was
agreed that the issues raised could be best addressed in an Advisory Opinion. The City
submitted a response, which was received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman on
April 2, 2008. Musketeer, LLC submitted additional materials as invited. These materials were
received on June 16, 2008. The City submitted additional materials, which were received on
June 25, 2008. The other two requestors, Howard C. Freiss Construction and Lyne Coy did not
submit any additional materials.

                                                         Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Arbitration/Mediation filed March 6, 2008 with the Office of the
                 Property Rights Ombudsman on behalf of Musketeer, LLC, with Attachments.
     2.          Response from Eagle Mountain City, submitted by Jeremy R. Cook, Counsel for the
                 City, received on April 2, 2008.
     3.          Request for Arbitration/Mediation, filed on April 17, 2008, on behalf of Howard C.
                 Friess Construction, Inc., with attachments.
     4.          Request for Arbitration/Mediation, filed on April 21, 2008, on by Lyne Coy, with
                 attachments.
     5.          Additional materials submitted by Musketeer, received on June 16, 2008.
     6.          Additional materials submitted on behalf of Eagle Mountain City, received on June
                 25, 2008.

                                                        Background
Beginning in 2004, Musketeer LLC, along with other development partners, applied for approval
to develop a residential subdivision, entitled “Valley View Ranch,” located on about 305 acres
which had been annexed into Eagle Mountain City. By October of that year, the City and


Advisory Opinion – Musketeer, LLC/Eagle Mountain City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 5, 2008 – page 2 of 7 pages
Musketeer had entered a Master Development Agreement, which provided that a maximum of
355 units could be built. The parcel is located to the north of Highway 73, and includes the
Tickville Wash, most of which is unsuitable for building due to steep slopes. The Developers
agreed to dedicate the wash to the City for open space and stormwater control, and also to build
park areas within the development. In order to accommodate the number of units, the Agreement
allowed ½-acre lots in some areas, but in the rest of the development, the minimum lot size was
1 acre. 1

The Development Agreement specifically stated that 1-acre lots were to have at least 150 feet of
frontage, and ½-acre lots were to be at least 100 feet wide. The Agreement did not address side
yard setback requirements, but, according to the developer, the City’s Development Code at the
time required 10 foot setbacks. The parties agreed that Valley View Ranch would consist of
“custom” homes with a minimum interior area of 1400 square feet, and that standard plans would
be avoided.

In December of 2004, the City’s Planning Commission approved the preliminary plat for the
Valley View Ranch South Subdivision. The Commission recommended several conditions,
including total sideyard setbacks of 30 feet on the half-acre lots, with a twelve foot minimum
setback. 2 The Planning Commission did not change the minimum lot width, which remained at
100 feet. On February 5, 2005, the final plat was approved by the Commission. The
Commission imposed various conditions, but without reference to a setback requirement, or to
minimum lot width.

On March 15, 2005, the City Council began consideration of the Final Plat. Mayor Kelvin
Bailey stated that the Valley View subdivision met the requirements made in the Development
Agreement. However, he was concerned that the “spirit” of the agreement was not being carried
out. The 100 foot width allowance in the Development Agreement was drafted to allow
“latitude” to accommodate the topography of the area. 3 The Mayor contended that the developer
was “abusing” that latitude by creating the maximum number of lots with the minimum width.
He suggested that the action be tabled, so that the developer could “reflect upon the spirit of the
agreement” and consider a new proposal for the plat.

The developer redrew the plat, and widened a majority of the lots. The City Council was pleased
that the developers were willing to redesign the plat to accomplish a “win-win” solution. The
Council approved the plat on the condition that “the plat meet all of the requirements for this




1
  The agreement provides that up to 5% of the total lots may be slightly smaller than ½ acre, if required due to
“topographical features or road alignment technical issues.”
2
  In other words, the total of the two sideyards added together had to be at least 30 feet, and no setback could be less
than 12 feet. The other conditions are not at issue in this Opinion. On one-acre lots, the Planning Commission
proposed a 30-foot minimum sideyard setback.
3
  The Development Agreement includes language allowing a greater number of ½ acre lots, when necessary to
accommodate topography.


Advisory Opinion – Musketeer, LLC/Eagle Mountain City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 5, 2008 – page 3 of 7 pages
development set forth in the Valley View Development Agreement and City Development
Code.” 4 The Council did not address setback requirements as a condition of plat approval.

The Developer states that the City’s Development Code required 10-foot sideyards when the
Development Agreement was signed in 2004. By the time the Valley View final plat was
approved, the City’s Development Code required 25 foot sideyard setbacks for the lots in the
plat. As development of the subdivision proceeded, the City was clear that it intended to enforce
the 25-foot setbacks, even on the narrow lots. The City maintains that development must comply
with its standards. Musketeer, LLC objects to the City’s stand, stating that it has the right to
develop using the either the 10-foot setbacks in place when the agreement was signed, or the 30-
foot “total” setback proposed by the Planning Commission when it approved the preliminary
plat.

                                                        Analysis
    I.     The Developer has not Vested in Setbacks through the Development Agreement

Local governments are authorized to use development agreements. 5 Such agreements allow for
greater flexibility in development, and can address specific needs associated with individual
properties. That appears to be the case with the Valley View Ranch subdivision. The City and
the Developer agreed that some of the lots in the subdivision could be narrower than otherwise
would be allowed, in part to compensate for a large area that could not be developed. The
developer agreed to dedicate that area to the City for open space and flood control. The City and
the Developer have agreed to the terms of the Development Agreement, and therefore, the
Developer is entitled approval of a land use application that complies with the terms of that
agreement. The Valley View Ranch subdivision plat appears to be consistent with the terms of
the Agreement.

However, the Development Agreement and the final plat do not contain any information or
restrictions regarding building setbacks. It cannot be said, therefore, that the building setbacks
are vested as of the date of the development agreement. Accordingly, to determine whether the
developer has a vested interest in building setbacks requires an examination of Utah law and
Eagle Mountain City Ordinance.

    II.    The Developer Vests in Setbacks in Place at the Time of Subdivision Application to
           the Extent that the Developer Relied on the Setback Ordinances in Preparing the
           Subdivision Application

In Utah, a land use applicant is entitled to approval of a complete land use application if the
application conforms to the requirements of the county’s land use maps, zoning map, and
applicable land use ordinance in effect. 6 This rule, sometimes known as the “vesting rule,” was
adopted in Utah in 1980 in Western Land Equities, Inc. v. City of Logan, 617 P.2d 388, 396 (Utah
4
  The City Council imposed other conditions which are not at issue here.
5
  See Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-102; 17-27a-102 (Development agreements authorized).
6
  Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(i). Exceptions to this rule exist. None are relevant to this Advisory Opinion.


Advisory Opinion – Musketeer, LLC/Eagle Mountain City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 5, 2008 – page 4 of 7 pages
1980), and later codified at UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-508(1)(a)(i). 7 The intent of the rule is to
provide some reliability and predictability in land use regulation:

           It is intended to strike a reasonable balance between important, conflicting public
           and private interests in the area of land development. A property owner should be
           able to plan for developing his property in a manner permitted by existing zoning
           regulations with some degree of assurance that the basic ground rules will not be
           changed in midstream.

Western Land Equities, Inc. v. City of Logan, 617 P.2d 388, 396 (Utah 1980).

This rule dictates how a local government can control the land use activities within its
boundaries. If restrictions or guidelines on development are desired, the county must adopt
ordinances to do so. Once properly enacted, those ordinances must be followed by land use
applicants. Yet applicants also have an appropriate expectation that their application will not be
denied midway through the process by new rules. Development of property is a difficult and
costly process, and the rule prevents a local government from unfairly denying a compliant land
use application after significant funds are spent. “The economic waste that occurs when a project
is halted after substantial costs have been incurred in its commencement is of no benefit either to
the public or to landowners.” Id.

As in many communities, Eagle Mountain City’s setback requirements are contained in the
municipal zoning ordinances. Therefore, they are land use ordinances. 8 As land use ordinances,
they are subject to the vesting rule. UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-508 indicates that where a land use
application (1) is complete and fees are paid, and (2) conforms to the requirements of the
county’s land use maps, zoning map, and applicable land use ordinance in effect, that application
is entitled to approval. Setback ordinances are therefore subject to vesting.

Not all land use applications, however, are created equal. Although both are land use
applications, a subdivision application will involve different considerations from a building
permit application. More importantly, a subdivider will rely on certain ordinances to a greater or
lesser extent than a builder. Setback ordinances are an example. When applying for a building
permit, the footprint of the proposed building is a prime consideration. The building permit
applicant will rely heavily on the setback ordinances in place when preparing the building permit
application. A complete and compliant building permit application will therefore vest the builder
in the setbacks in place at the time of application.

Conversely, a subdivider will rely more heavily on other ordinances such as lot size, and setback
requirements may not be highly considered. Some subdivisions are prepared with complete
disregard for building location on the lot. A developer may not intend to build on the subdivided


7 There is a corresponding section applicable to municipalities, found at § 10-9a-509(1).
8
  UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-103(20) defines “Land use ordinance” as “a planning, zoning, development, or
subdivision ordinance of the county, but does not include the general plan.”


Advisory Opinion – Musketeer, LLC/Eagle Mountain City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 5, 2008 – page 5 of 7 pages
lot for some time. In such a case, vesting in setback ordinances may unwisely limit the ability of
the municipality to plan for future growth.

On the other hand, a subdivider might rely very heavily on setbacks in designing a subdivision.
Developers often design a lot to accommodate a specific building. In such an instance, setback
ordinances will be crucial in the subdivision design, and the level of reliance on those setbacks
high. Changing the setback ordinances after subdivision could eviscerate the developer’s intent
for the development.

Where setbacks are relied upon by the subdivider in subdivision design, the developer’s reliance
on those setbacks must be protected. If setbacks do not vest with a subdivision application, a
municipality may do an end run around the vesting rule by approving an application, but then
changing the setbacks on the approved lots, effectively rendering the developer unable to build
upon those lots. The vesting rule’s purpose, as expressed in Western Land Equities, is to avoid
exactly this kind of situation. Therefore, in accordance with Western Land Equities, setback
ordinances can vest at the time of subdivision application to the extent that the setbacks were
relied upon in the subdivision design.

III.       The Developer Relied Upon the Setback Ordinances In Designing the Subdivision,
           and Therefore Vests In those Setbacks to the Extent Of That Reliance.

The evidence provided to the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman indicates that the
Developer heavily relied upon the City’s former setback requirements when it designed the
subdivision. The developer and the City entered into the Development Agreement, which
allowed a number of lots more narrow than normally allowed. The narrower lots could only have
been a viable option to the developer to the extent that the developer could build upon those lots.
It is unlikely that the developer would have designed narrow lots, in accordance with the
agreement, 9 without reliance on the setbacks in the zoning ordinance. In addition, the
Development Agreement anticipates “custom” homes with a minimum interior area of 1400
square feet. Custom homes require greater flexibility in placement, and a minimum size
contemplates a certain size footprint. This also indicates that the Developer expected that the
sideyard setbacks would remain at 10 feet, which would allow that flexibility and greater variety
of the type of homes that could be built.

Because of the setbacks were important considerations in the planning of the subdivision and the
Development Agreement, the Developer relied upon the former setback requirements. To the
extent that of the reliance, the Developer may claim a vested right the former sideyard setback
requirements.

9
  By entering into the Development Agreement and by approving the subdivision with the narrow lots, the City
engaged in an affirmative act that could be viewed as agreeing to the setbacks as they existed. This raises issues of
zoning estoppel. Zoning estoppel “estops a government entity from exercising its zoning powers to prohibit a
proposed land use when a property owner, relying reasonably and in good faith on some governmental act or
omission, has made a substantial change in position or incurred such extensive obligations or expenses that it would
be highly inequitable to deprive the owner of his right to complete his proposed development.” Western Land
Equities, 617 P.2d at 391.


Advisory Opinion – Musketeer, LLC/Eagle Mountain City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 5, 2008 – page 6 of 7 pages
IV.        The Current Sideyard Setbacks May Impose an Unreasonable Burden on Narrow
           Lots in the Subdivision.

The Developer and Property Owners point out that the new setbacks severely limit the type of
homes that may be located on the narrow lots. It is noted that the current sideyard setback
requirements are large. The new sideyard setbacks are 25 feet on either side, which consumes
one-half of a 100-foot wide lot, leaving a building area only 50 feet wide. Ordinarily, local
governments have broad discretion to select and implement zoning regulations which they feel
will best address local needs. 10 Despite this discretion, however, a particular application of a
zoning ordinance may be invalid if it is applied in an unreasonable manner. 11 An ordinance may
be valid as written, but oppressively restrictive when applied to a specific parcel, or to a
particular factual situation.

While implementing a 25-foot sideyard setback may in general be a valid exercise of the City’s
zoning authority, the impact on the narrow lots in the Valley View Ranch subdivision may be a
situation where the ordinance is being applied in an unreasonable manner. The governmental
objectives promoted by sideyard requirements do not seem to justify imposing such a harsh
burden on individual property owners. In addition, the history of the application and approval
process strongly suggests that the City may be acting capriciously by imposing the 25-foot
setback. If so, that would also invalidate how the ordinance is applied to the narrow lots in the
subdivision. This extreme situation may be remedied by a variance request, or perhaps the City
could reevaluate its position on the sideyard setbacks, particularly on narrow building lots. 12

                                                        Conclusion
The developer and the property owner may rely on the Valley View Ranch subdivision plat, and
the terms of the Development Agreement. The City is bound to recognize the plat layout and lot
sizes of the subdivision. The City is also obligated to follow the terms of the Development
Agreement as they apply to the subdivision.
10
   See Bradley v. Payson City Corp., 2003 UT 16, ¶ 24, 70 P.3d 47, 54: “Though a municipality may have a myriad
of competing choices before it, the selection of one method of solving the problem in preference to another is
entirely within the discretion of the [municipality]; and does not, in and of itself evidence an abuse of discretion.”
(citations omitted).
11
   See Gibbons & Reed Co. v. North Salt Lake City, 19 Utah 2d 329, 333, 431 P.2d 559, 562 (1967): “Although the
wisdom and the nature of zoning power has been left in the discretion of [local] authorities, the courts may still
intervene and set aside their action if such ordinances are confiscatory, discriminatory, or unreasonable.” See also
Harmon City, Inc. v. Draper City, 2000 UT App. 31, ¶ 12, 997 P.2d 321, 325.
12
   It must also be noted that an ordinance which is applied in an overly restrictive fashion, even if valid in other
situations, may be considered a regulatory taking. “Where a regulation places limitations on land that fall short of
eliminating all economically beneficial use, a taking nonetheless may have occurred, depending on a complex of
factors including the regulation’s economic effect upon the landowner, the extent to which the regulation interferes
with reasonable investment-backed expectations, and character of the governmental action.” Palazzolo v. Rhode
Island, 533 U.S. 606, 617 (2001) (quoting Penn Central Transportation Co. v. New York City, 438 U.S. 104, 124
(1978). This Opinion only notes the possibility of a takings claim, and does not attempt to analyze the City’s
setback requirement as a potential taking of private property.


Advisory Opinion – Musketeer, LLC/Eagle Mountain City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 5, 2008 – page 7 of 7 pages
The Developer has a vested right in the sideyard setback requirements in place when the
subdivision was approved, to the extent that they relied upon those setbacks when the
subdivision was planned. Rights in particular zoning ordinances vest when an application is filed
which implicates those ordinances. A complete application for a building permit would vest the
applicant with the right to rely upon the setbacks in place on the date of the application. A
subdivision application implicates zoning ordinances related to lot size and layout, but not
necessarily setback requirements. However, a developer may rely upon the setback requirements
in an ordinance when the subdivision is planned and designed. To the extent that the Developer
relied upon the City’s setback requirements when the subdivision was designed, the Developer
and Property Owner may rely upon those requirements, and claim vested rights in the setback
ordinance.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Musketeer, LLC/Eagle Mountain City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 5, 2008 – page 8 of 7 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Fionnuala Kofoed, City Recorder
              Eagle Mountain City
              1650 E. Stagecoach Run
              Eagle Mountain, UT 84043

On this ___________ Day of September, 2008, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
