                     Advisory Opinion #37
                           Parties: David Mansell and City of Santa Clara
                                           Issued: April 8, 2008

                                       TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      H: Compelling, Countervailing Public Interests
                      J: Requirements Imposed Upon Development

The Developer met the requirements of the City’s code, by obtaining a
geotechnical analysis by a qualified expert. The City’s concerns about soil stability
were legitimate, but the expert report addressed those concerns and showed how
the stability problems could be minimized. The City had no factual information that
outweighed the expert analysis, and so the Developer is entitled to approval,
unless there is factual evidence contradicting the expert’s report.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                                      State of Utah
                                      Department of Commerce
  JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
                                      OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor



                                                             ADVISORY OPINION
                  Hazardous Conditions as Grounds for Denial of Land Use Application

            Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                 David Mansell

            Local Government Entity:                                       City of Santa Clara

            Applicant for the Land Use Approval:                           David Mansell

            Project:                                                       Residential Subdivision

            Opinion Authored By:                                           Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney
                                                                           Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

            Date of this Advisory Opinion:                                 April 8, 2008


                                                                            Issue
            Was the City’s decision to deny an application for subdivision approval justified because of
            compelling concerns over soil stability?

                                                      Summary of Advisory Opinion
            Section 10-9a-509 of the Utah Code requires approval of a complete application that conforms to
            land use statutes and ordinances, unless there is a compelling, countervailing public interest that
            would be jeopardized by the proposed development. While concerns about soil stability on the
            developer’s property were a compelling public interest, the concerns were addressed and
            mitigated by recommendations from a geotechnical report prepared by qualified experts. There
            was no evidence presented that contradicted or disputed the report or its recommendations. The
            City’s decision to deny the application was arbitrary and in violation of § 10-9a-509, because the
            decision did not have sufficient factual support.

                                                                          Review
            A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
            decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of U.C.A. §13-43-205. An


160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or
other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such
a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from David Mansell on January 8, 2008. As
provided in statute, a letter with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return receipt
requested, to Barbara Salmon, City Recorder, at 2721 Santa Clara Dr., Santa Clara, Utah 84765
The return receipt was signed and was received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
on January 14, 2008, indicating that it had been received by the City.

                                                 Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.        Request for an Advisory Opinion filed January 8, 2008 with the Office of the
               Property Rights Ombudsman by David Mansell.
     2.        Additional information from David Mansell, emailed to the Office of the Property
               Rights Ombudsman, February, 2008
     3.        Response Letter, with attachments, from Russell J. Gallian, attorney for the City of
               Santa Clara, received March 7, 2008.

                                               Assumed Facts
     1.        It is assumed that the proposed subdivision would meet all other development
               requirements of the City which are not discussed herein.

                                                Background
In 2005, David Mansell acquired 10.5 acres located near 2700 North Canyon View Drive in
Santa Clara. At the time Mr. Mansell purchased the property, and at the time he applied for
approval, the property was within an “R-1-10” zone. As many as thirty residential building lots
could be developed on the property, but the topography limited the actual area that could be used.
The property includes a higher area that slopes downward about 40 feet to level area, including a
wash and streambed that intermittently carries storm runoff water. The stream and wash are part
of the Tuacahn Wash drainage.

The bulk of the soil, particularly in the lower area, is made up of mudstone, also known as
Petrified Forest Member or “blue clay.” Both Mr. Mansell and the City acknowledged that this
soil type is problematic from a geological-hazard perspective. The blue clay soil is soft and is
highly expansive when wet. This expansion leads to stability problems, including landslides and


Advisory Opinion – David Mansell/Santa Clara
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 8, 2008– page 2 of 9 pages
damage to foundations. Blue clay soil led to landslides and other stability in the St.
George/Santa Clara area in the past. In fact, two properties near the proposed subdivision have
recently experienced foundation problems attributable to the blue clay soil. 1

The lower area of the property also has a fairly high water table, particularly near the wash. Not
only does the presence of water contribute to instability, it may also cause flooding and damage
to underground utilities. In addition, concrete foundations and structures could be subject to
damage, because of chemicals in the soil that may leach out into the water.

In early 2005, property owners in Santa Clara experienced serious flooding and landslides.
Because of these past problems, the City adopted ordinances governing development on hillsides
and floodplains. 2 Mr. Mansell was aware that these ordinance changes were being considered,
and in fact he stated that he deliberately waited until the new ordinance was in place before
proceeding with further discussions on the proposed subdivision.

After discussing development proposals with the City for nearly two years, Mr. Mansell
submitted a preliminary plat on July 23, 2007, proposing 17 lots, with roughly 25% of the total
property remaining as undeveloped open space. The proposed open space included the wash and
a steep slope leading down to the wash. Five of the lots were proposed for an area above the
wash, which is on the same elevation as Canyon View Drive. Several homes have already been
built along that road, including an existing home located on Lot 3 of the proposed subdivision.
The remaining 12 lots were proposed for the lower portion of the property. The discussions were
drawn out because of concerns about the topography and soil stability, and because the new
hillside ordinance was being drafted.

Mr. Mansell commissioned a geotechnical investigation from Applied Geotechnical Engineering
Consultants, Inc. (AGEC), an engineering firm in St. George. Two reports were prepared by
AGEC, the first in October of 2006, and another in July of 2007. The firm undertook field
testing and sampling, and recommended steps that would enable development of the property.
Among the recommendations were reinforcement of hillsides, compaction of the soil, adequate
drainage, and installing concrete piers to strengthen the ground underneath the buildings. Both
AGEC reports concluded that homes could be safely located on the property, provided the
recommendations were followed.

The City asked the Utah Geological Survey (UGS), which is part of the Utah Department of
Natural Resources, to review the AGEC reports. The UGS did not undertake independent
sampling or analysis of the soil or groundwater from the property. The UGS review generally
agreed with the AGEC report’s conclusions and recommendations. The UGS also agreed that
AGEC’s recommendations would make construction on the property feasible and adequately


1
  See Letter from Utah Geological Survey to Matthew J. Brower, “Review of the ‘Mansell Property,’ a proposed 17-
lot subdivision in Santa Clara, Washington County, Utah” dated September 6, 2007, at 5.
2
  Chapter 17-80 of the Santa Clara Municipal Code, adopted in 2006, governs “Hillside Development Standards,”
and Chapter 15-36, adopted in 2005, governs development in floodplains.


Advisory Opinion – David Mansell/Santa Clara
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 8, 2008– page 3 of 9 pages
safe. 3 Mr. Mansell asked AGEC to respond to the UGS review. AGEC submitted a letter
addressing four concerns from the UGS review. That letter was dated October 4, 2007. Finally,
the City requested additional review from Walter Jones and Todd Edwards, who are civil
engineers in the St. George area. Their brief reviews generally agreed with the AGEC reports
that the proposed subdivision could be developed on the property.

The City’s planning commission met in November of 2007, and tabled consideration of Mr.
Mansell’s application, so that more information relevant to the adequacy of the proposed
construction methods could be obtained. Mr. Mansell states that he provided the information that
was requested, and that his engineering firm was prepared to address questions from the planning
commission. At the December, 2007 meeting, the planning commission recommended that the
City deny Mr. Mansell’s application for preliminary plat approval, because they felt there were
risks not explained by the engineers, and that the risk to the City was too great.

On January 9, 2008, the Santa Clara City Council considered Mr. Mansell’s application. At that
meeting, City Planner John Willie explained the history of the application, and noted that the
project had been extensively studied. Todd Edwards noted several concerns raised by the City’s
staff, including the geotechnical issues, and made recommendations based on those concerns. 4
Mr. Edwards noted that the AGEC report concluded that the proposed subdivision was safe.
Walter Jones, who evaluated the application at the request of the City, stated that AGEC’s
recommendations “are the steps [the City] has asked them to take. They are meeting the
requirements we have asked them to meet.” 5 Russ Gallian, Santa Clara’s City Attorney, raised
the issue that the soil would have greater instability should more water be introduced through
leakage from a water or sewer line. He also noted that road maintenance would potentially cost
more because of the soil issues.

Wayne Rogers, of AGEC, explained his firm’s findings and conclusions, and stated that the
geotechnical problems with the property could be mitigated through structural improvements and
construction techniques. He identified three principal issues related to the subdivision: Slope
Stability, Soil Expansion, and Drainage.6 The slope stability problem could be addressed
through such things as reinforcements on the hillsides, using concrete piers, and by introducing
compacted outside soil. Mr. Rogers explained that these improvements would actually
strengthen the hillside, particularly the hill beneath the homes which exist above the subdivision
property.

Soil expansion and drainage are interrelated, because the expansion problem is tied to the
amount of water present in the soil. Mr. Rogers first noted that most of the water present in the
soil—at least at shallow depths—is not natural, but is the result of culinary irrigation running off

3
   The UGS review noted that further study may be necessary to address concerns about seismic stability and
liquefaction.
4
  Mr. Edwards also indicated concerns with the placement of roads, and the impact on traffic. He also suggested that
the internal roads of Mr. Mansell’s subdivision could be privately owned and maintained, and that the ownership and
use of the open space area needed to be clarified. These issues are not evaluated in this Opinion.
5
  See Minutes of the Santa Clara City Council, January 9, 2008, pp. 7-8 (hereafter “Minutes”).
6
  Id., p. 13.


Advisory Opinion – David Mansell/Santa Clara
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 8, 2008– page 4 of 9 pages
from other properties. He proposed piping runoff water into an existing storm drain system that
fed into the Tuacahn Wash, using flexible pipes to reduce the possibility of leaks or breaks. He
stated that other practices, such as connecting roof drains directly into the drain system, regular
maintenance and cleaning of the storm drain system, and xeriscaping techniques would greatly
reduce the amount of water introduced into the soil. Compacting and grading were also
proposed to help stabilize the soil, and manage water runoff. Mr. Rogers’s opinion was that the
proposed practices and structures adequately addressed the soil stability, expansion, and drainage
issues, and that the subdivision could be successfully and safely built.

The City Council also heard from several homeowners in the area, who expressed concerns
about soil stability and the possibility of landslides. A few homeowners pointed out that they
had already experienced problems due to soil expansion and movement. Most citizens were
opposed to the Mansell subdivision, because they felt it would lead to landslides or other soil
stability problems, and because they felt that the City would be assuming liability if such
problems occurred.

In its discussion, the members of the City Council expressed “discomfort” with the risks
associated with the development. The City Council was specifically concerned that the
subdivision could introduce additional water into the underlying soil, which would lead to
expansion and instability. Ultimately the council members felt that the hazards or risks could not
be overcome, although there was no expert opinion directly refuting the AGEC report and
recommendations. The City Council voted to deny Mr. Mansell’s application.

                                               Analysis
     I. The Subdivision Should be Approved, Because it Conforms to the City’s Land Use
        Ordinances, and Because There is not a Compelling, Countervailing Public Interest
        to Deny it.

There appears to be no reason why the subdivision application should not be approved. The
application conforms to the City’s land use ordinances, and there is not a compelling,
countervailing reason to withhold approval. Section 10-9a-509 of the Utah Code governs when a
land use application must be approved:

          An applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the application
          conforms to the requirements of the municipality’s land use maps, zoning map,
          and applicable land use ordinance in effect when a complete application is
          submitted and all fees have been paid, unless:

                 (i) the land use authority, on the record, finds that a compelling,
          countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by approving the application




Advisory Opinion – David Mansell/Santa Clara
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 8, 2008– page 5 of 9 pages
UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(1)(a). 7 This section requires approval of applications that
conform to a local government’s ordinances, but also allows for denial in order to protect
important public interests.

               A. The Application Conforms to the City’s Land Use Maps and Ordinances

In the matter at issue in this Opinion, there has been no dispute that Mr. Mansell’s subdivision
application conforms to the City’s land use maps and ordinances. The parcel is zoned for single-
family residential development, and the lots meet the City’s minimum size requirements. The
information made available for this Opinion show no objections to the subdivision, other than
those which concern soil stability. 8

The City’s Hillside Development Standards Ordinance requires analysis by qualified experts to
recommend plans for grading and drainage, and a geotechnical report of soil and groundwater
conditions. The ordinance requires that the geotechnical report make recommendations for
construction, including “the means proposed to minimize any hazards to life or property, or
adverse impact on the natural environment.” Santa Clara City Code, § 17.80.070(G)(6). The
AGEC reports complied with that requirement, and made specific recommendations intended to
minimize the hazards identified on the Mansell parcel. While the experts which evaluated the
reports for the City raised some general concerns about the risks involved, there was no expert
testimony or report that disputed or contradicted AGEC’s conclusions and recommendations.

The application conforms to the City’s ordinances governing development on hillsides and
drainages. 9 The City’s ordinances require investigation and recommendations from engineering
experts. The developer obtained two engineering reports, as required by the City. 10 The reports
evaluated the soil and drainage concerns, and the engineers recommended grading and
construction designs that they felt would successfully address those concerns. As Walt Jones,
one of the City’s experts stated, the developer took “the steps [the City has] asked them to take.
They are meeting the requirements we have asked them to meet.” 11 Todd Edwards stated that
“AGEC has indicated in their reports and studies that the subdivision is safe and within the
guidelines of [the City’s] ordinances in their engineering judgment.” 12 The Utah Geological
Survey reviewed the AGEC report, and while suggesting additional investigations in some areas,
agreed that development could proceed with certain precautions.



7 A parallel section, applicable to counties is found at § 17-27a-509.
8
  It is assumed for the purposes of this Opinion that there are no other objections to the subdivision’s design.
9
   See Santa Clara City Code, Chapters 15-36 (floodplains); 17-48 (geotechnical issues); and 17-80 (hillside
development).
10
   § 17.48.020 of the Santa Clara City Code requires a report prepared by a licensed engineer when potential hazards
due to erosion or soil stability have been identified. Furthermore, § 17.80.070 requires a drainage and geotechnical
analysis for development on hillsides. The two reports were prepared by AGEC in July and August of 2007.
11
   See note 5, supra, with the associated text.
12
   Minutes, January 9, 2008, p. 7 (emphasis added). Mr. Edwards identified 6 areas of concern, and later indicated
that those areas had all been addressed. See id., p. 34


Advisory Opinion – David Mansell/Santa Clara
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 8, 2008– page 6 of 9 pages
Mr. Mansell presented recommendations from his experts that addressed the concerns raised
regarding soil stability, soil expansion, and drainage for the parcel. Nothing was presented
which contradicted the AGEC report, or called its methodology into question. Since Mr.
Mansell’s application conforms to the City’s land use ordinances, including the ordinances which
govern development on hillsides, the application is complete, and is entitled to approval, unless
the City can identify a compelling, countervailing public interest that may be jeopardized by the
subdivision.

               B. The City has not Identified a Compelling, Countervailing Public Interest that
                  Would be Jeopardized if the Application were Approved.

The City may not withhold approval of the subdivision because its objections and concerns have
been adequately addressed. Because there have been past problems with landslides and soil
movement, the City wisely adopted ordinances governing development on hillsides, floodplains,
and other problem areas. There is no question that the City’s concern over soil stability and
drainage is a legitimate and compelling public interest. See e.g., Gardner v. Wasatch County,
2008 UT 6, ¶ 22, 596 Utah Adv. Rep. 38 (a county ordinance addressing development in
geologically sensitive areas was a legitimate governmental concern). However, the mere
existence of a compelling public interest does not automatically mean that a local government
may deny a land use application. Denial is justified only when a compelling public interest
associated with a specific development cannot be resolved or sufficiently mitigated.

This concept is illustrated in the Utah Supreme Court’s decision in Western Land Equities, which
injected the term “compelling, countervailing public interest” into land use parlance. In that
case, the City of Logan denied an application for a residential subdivision, in part because it felt
that the road access to the parcel was insufficient for fire and other emergency equipment. The
court noted that while Logan’s concern about emergency access was reasonable, it was not
sufficient to justify denying the application, because “it does not appear [that] the problem would
be any less serious if the unarguably-permitted manufacturing facilities were erected instead of
single-family houses.” Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d 388, 396 (Utah 1980). In other words,
although there is a compelling public interest—access for emergency equipment—the public
concern was resolved, because the access problem would have been the same regardless of what
was built. 13

The City has justifiable concerns over the proposed subdivision, because of the soil conditions
and the topography of the parcel. However, those concerns have been addressed through the
process established by City ordinances―analysis and recommendations by experts. As has been
discussed, the application complied with the City’s ordinances, and addressed the concerns of
soil stability, soil expansion, and drainage. Because the application conforms to the City’s
ordinance, § 10-9a-509 of the Utah Code compels approval, and the City cannot ignore its own



13
  The court also noted that Logan could modify its specifications to meet the needs of a residential subdivision.
Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 396.


Advisory Opinion – David Mansell/Santa Clara
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 8, 2008– page 7 of 9 pages
requirements. 14 The geotechnical expert retained by the applicant proposed measures to mitigate
the problems, and there does not appear to be any expert testimony disputing those proposals.
The applicants have thus resolved the issues raised by the City’s compelling public interest, and,
without strong evidence contradicting the expert’s conclusions, denial of the subdivision
application is not justified.

               C. The City Council’s Decision was Arbitrary, Because There was not a Sufficient
                  Factual Basis to Deny the Application.

Finally, the decision of the City Council is arbitrary, because it does not have a sufficient factual
basis. The minutes of the City Council meeting on January 9 show that the City’s concerns were
based on fears that some serious problem may occur despite the recommendations from the
geotechnical report. “[D]enial of a [land use application] is arbitrary when the reasons are
without sufficient factual basis.” Davis County v. Clearfield City, 756 P.2d 704, 711 (Utah Ct.
App. 1988). According to the minutes of the January 9 meeting, the City Council did not rely on
factual conclusions or the expert’s opinions, but instead denied the application because its
members were not “comfortable” with the risks that were involved. 15 The decision “did not have
factual support in the ‘vague reservations expressed . . . by the [council] members.’” Id., 756
P.2d at 711, (quoting C.R. Invs., Inc. v. Village of Shoreview, 304 N.W.2d 320, 325 (Minn.
1981)). Since there was not a factual basis for the Council’s denial, the decision was arbitrary. 16


                                                  Conclusion
The application submitted by David Mansell was complete, and conformed to the City’s
ordinances, including those specifically addressing development on hillsides. The City’s
concerns over soil stability, soil expansion, and drainage were addressed in the geotechnical
reports submitted by the developer’s experts from AGEC. There was no evidence or expert
testimony that contradicted the conclusions and recommendations proposed by AGEC. Because
the application was complete and in conformity, § 10-9a-509 mandates approval of the
application, unless a compelling, countervailing public interest dictates otherwise.

Concern over soil stability is a compelling public interest. However, the existence of a
compelling interest does not by itself justify denial. A land use application may be denied only

14
   See e.g., Springville Citizens for a Better Community v. Springville, 1999 UT 25, ¶ 30, 979 P.2d 332, 337-38
(“Municipal zoning authorities are bound by the terms and standards of applicable zoning ordinances and are not at
liberty to make land use decisions in derogation thereof.”)
15
   See e.g. Minutes, January 9, 2008, p. 28.
16
   There were also discussions centered on what would happen if the drainage system were to fail, or if an unusual
amount of water were somehow introduced (for example, because of a water main break or leak), causing soil
expansion or movement. These concerns were speculative, and not sufficiently factual to justify denial. In addition,
soil expansion problems exist whether the subdivision is built or not. These concerns are legitimate, but they are not
uniquely associated with the development. Like the access issue in Western Land Equities discussed above (see note
13, supra, and associated text) these speculative concerns about the impact of water being artificially introduced
cannot be considered a “compelling, countervailing public interest” within the terms of § 10-9a-509.


Advisory Opinion – David Mansell/Santa Clara
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 8, 2008– page 8 of 9 pages
when a compelling interest cannot be resolved or otherwise mitigated. There is no question that
the soil conditions and the topography raise compelling public concerns. However, those
concerns were addressed through the geotechnical report prepared by AGEC. Nothing was
presented that was sufficient to contradict the conclusions and recommendations made by
AGEC. Since the expert’s recommendations mitigate the compelling public interest, the City did
not have a basis to deny the application.

Finally, the City’s decision is arbitrary, because there was not a sufficient factual basis to deny
the application. In spite of the expert report (required by the City’s ordinance), the City Council
based its decision on “vague reservations” that the development was risky. A denial must have a
factual basis. The geotechnical report provided expert analysis, and recommendations on how
the soil stability problems could be addressed.

This Opinion recognizes that there are significant concerns about soil stability on this particular
parcel that present unique challenges to development. The conditions on the property warrant
greater scrutiny in the approval and the construction process. The City is right to carefully
scrutinize the proposed subdivision. Careful investigation and inspection may yet reveal
additional stability problems that cannot be mitigated in a practical or cost-effective manner. The
conclusion of this Opinion is that the Utah Code, relevant caselaw, and the City’s own ordinance
require that any decision to approve or deny the application, or to suspend construction, must be
based on expert recommendations and other established facts, not on speculation or unsupported
“discomfort” about the risks associated with the development.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – David Mansell/Santa Clara
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 8, 2008– page 9 of 9 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, § 13-42-205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.




Advisory Opinion – David Mansell/Santa Clara
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 8, 2008– page 10 of 9 pages
                                               MAILING CERTIFICATE

U.C.A. §13-43-206(10)(b) requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to the government
entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with U.C.A. §63-30d-401 (Notices Filed
Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                    Barbara Salmon
                    City Recorder
                    City of Santa Clara
                    2721 Santa Clara Drive
                    Santa Clara, UT 84765

On this ___________ Day of April, 2008, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                                         ______________________________________________________
                                         Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – David Mansell/Santa Clara
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 8, 2008– page 11 of 9 pages
