                     Advisory Opinion #14
                      Parties: Michael Moyal and MBI, LLC and Ogden City
                                          Issued: April 16, 2007

                                         TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      E: Entitlement to Application Approval (Vesting)
                      K: Compliance with Mandatory Land Use Ordinances
                      R(i): Other Topics (Temporary Land Use Ordinance)

Utah law requires the finding of a “compelling, countervailing public interest” to
support the enactment of a temporary land use ordinance (or “moratorium”). The
City’s findings for the temporary ordinance did not meet the higher threshold of a
compelling, countervailing public interest, and was therefore illegally enacted.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                                      State of Utah
                                      Department of Commerce
  JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
                                      OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor



                                                                   Advisory Opinion


            Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                 Michael Moyal and MBI, LLC
                                                                           by Alvin R. Lundgren, Attorney at Law

            Local Government Entity:                                       Ogden City

            Applicant for the Land Use Approval:                           Michael Moyal

            Project:                                                       River Inn – Restaurant Remodel

            Date of this Advisory Opinion:                                 April 16, 2007

                                                                             Issue

            Did the City of Ogden legally refuse to consider a land use application to establish a restaurant at
            1875 Washington Boulevard either because: 1) the City acted legally to adopt Ordinance No.
            2007-2 on January 2, 2007, thereby imposing a six month prohibition on development activities
            in the Ogden River Redevelopment Project Plan Area or 2) the City had a “pending ordinance” in
            place at the time which would have prohibited approval of the land use application as submitted?

                                                         Summary of Advisory Opinion

            Utah law requires the finding of a “compelling, countervailing public interest” to support the
            enactment of a temporary land use ordinance. These temporary land use ordinances (some of
            which could be styled as a “moratorium”) are enacted without any of the notice and due process
            requirements typically required of land use statutes. They have the ability, such as in this case, to
            completely deny all changes in the use of developed private property, or any use at all of vacant
            land, for a period of time of six months or less. Because of the intrusive nature of such
            temporary ordinances, adopted without the same due process, there is a higher duty imposed on
            local municipal officials to justify them. Ogden’s findings cite a preference for one land use over
            another as justification for the temporary ordinance, and suggest that the matter is urgent,
            although the river project plan, which is the basis for the temporary ordinance, was adopted four
            and a half years ago. These findings did not meet the higher threshold of a compelling,
            countervailing public interest. Ogden Ordinance No. 2007-2, the temporary land use ordinance
            for the River Project, was therefore illegally enacted. Since it was not legally enacted, it also
            does not and did not constitute a “pending ordinance” that could be relied upon to deny the
            application for a restaurant at 1875 Washington Boulevard. If that application was complete and
            in a form that the City would normally proceed to review and act upon, the City must do so.


160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
                                              Review

A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of U.C.A. § 13-43-205. The
opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative remedies,
of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or other specific
land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such a review can
help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and understand
the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this opinion, may
have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

The request for an advisory opinion in this matter was received from Al Lundgren, Attorney for
the Applicant, on January 23, 2007. A letter with the request attached was sent by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to Cindi Mansell, Ogden City Recorder, at 2549 Washington Blvd. Suite
#210, Ogden, UT 84401. Ms. Mansell is the individual whose name is listed as the designated
agent on the records of the Division of for the receipt of notice under the Utah Governmental
Immunity Act. A return receipt was received on January 26, 2007 indicating that Ms. Mansell’s
office had received the request.

The parties did not appoint a neutral to write the opinion, so this office has prepared it. Prior to
the preparation of this opinion, Craig Call of this office visited on several occasions and/or
traded emails with Al Lundgren, Attorney for the Applicant; Michael Moyal, the Applicant; Gary
Williams, the Ogden City Attorney; Joe Linford, Assistant Ogden City Attorney; and Greg
Montgomery, Ogden City Planning Staff.

                                             Evidence

The following documents with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory opinion were
reviewed prior to its completion:

   1.      Request for an Advisory Opinion filed January 24, 2007 with the Office of the
           Property Rights Ombudsman by Alvin R. Lundgren, Attorney at Law for Michael
           Moyal.
   2.      Ordinance No. 2007-2, Ogden City Ordinances
   3.      “Temporary Ordinance For River Project Area” – Council Staff Review for Ogden
           City Council Meeting, January 2, 2007.
   4.      “Ogden River Project History” unsigned and undated chronology provided to me by
           the City of Ogden.
   5.      “Ogden City Council Transmittal” dated December 19, 2006 to Ogden City Council
           through John Patterson, CAO from Richard McConkie, CED Deputy Director.
   6.      “Notice of Temporary Ordinance in Affect (sic) December 19, 2006 to June 19 2007”
           undated notice provided to me by the City of Ogden.


Advisory Opinion – MBI/Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2007 – page 2 of 17 pages
   7.      Email from Greg Montgomery to Community Development; Mansell, Cindi;
           Lockwood, Andrea; related to “Temporary Ordinance in Affect” (sic) December 19,
           2006-June 19, 2006.
   8.      Letter dated December 13, 2006 to “Mr. Moyal” from John Mayer, Planner, Ogden
           City.
   9.      Undated graphic rendering of proposed restaurant facades provided by Michael
           Moyal.
   10.     Proposed site plan, undated and untitled, for restaurant and motel.
   11.     Mountain View Community Plan, adopted August 2004. Approx 30 pages including
           maps and graphics, provided to me by the City of Ogden.
   12.     Ogden City Ordinances, Chapters 4 – Development Plan Review Process, 15 –
           Single-Family Residential Zones, 21 - Manufacturing Zones, and 38 - Commercial
           Zones.
   13.     Ogden River Redevelopment Project Area Plan Final Project Area Plan dated June 20,
           2002 by the Redevelopment Agency of Ogden City, provided to me by Ogden City.
   14.     Ogden River Neighborhood Schematic Plan and General Information – five full-color
           sheets outlining proposed plan for Washington Blvd & 20th Street provided to me by
           the City of Ogden.
   15.     “Ogden’s Riverfront Neighborhood” undated summary of area plan provided to me
           by the City of Ogden. Eleven 11x17 inch full-color pages.
   16.     Timeline for events regarding 1825 and 1839 Washington Blvd. Ogden, Utah 84401
           a.k.a. Ogden River Inn and Old Restaurant/Deli Site. Four page document provided
           by Michael Moyal.
   17.     “Petition to Amend Ogden City Zoning Map” filed 10-13-06 by Michael Moyal.
   18.     Agenda November 1, 2006, Ogden City Planning Commission.
   19.     Audio recording of the January 2, 2007 meeting of the Ogden City Council found
           online at www.ogdencity.com.

   Other documents were submitted by the Applicant related to the same property but not the
   issues involved in this Advisory Opinion. They were descriptive of zoning enforcement
   issues and business licensing of the Applicant’s business there and were not deemed relevant
   to this opinion and therefore not reviewed in connection with its preparation.

                                          Assumed Facts

   1.      The River Inn is a motel in Ogden that has been in operation for decades at 1875-
           1839 Washington Boulevard.

   2.      The River Inn is owned by MBI, LLC. Michael Moyal is a principal of that business
           entity.

   3.      The owners of the River Inn submitted documents to the City of Ogden that were
           reviewed by the staff of the City prior to December 13, 2006. These documents



Advisory Opinion – MBI/Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2007 – page 3 of 17 pages
           consisted of a “concept plan” for a proposed restaurant. City staff conducted
           conversations with various City service providers regarding the restaurant proposal.

   4.      On December 13, 2006, John Mayer, a Planner for Ogden City, notified Michael
           Moyal by a letter that the “concept plan” review concluded that there were significant
           issues with the concept plan related to parking and landscaping and that the proposal
           could not be approved under the existing ordinances. The letter required an “official
           site plan submittal” would be required and these two issues would need to be
           addressed. Mayer also noted that issues would exist with regard to a grease trap and
           hood and associated duct exhaust system.

   5.      On January 2, 2007, the Ogden City Council adopted Ordinance 2007-2 (the
           “Ordinance”) establishing a temporary land use ordinance relating to development
           activity in the area included in the Ogden River Redevelopment Project Area Plan,
           which includes approximately the area between 18th Street and 20th Street and
           between Washington and Wall Avenues, excluding the area between the Ogden River
           and 20th Street and between Grant Avenue and Washington Boulevard.

   6.      The Ordinance prohibits the issuing of building permits, site plan reviews, conditional
           use permits, rezoning, subdivisions, changes of use, or other development approvals
           in the area between December 19, 2006 and June 19, 2007.

   7.      At various times Michael Moyal claims that he has tendered an application on behalf
           of MBI for review of a proposed restaurant to be located on the River Inn site.

   8.      The City of Ogden has refused to further consider the site plan for the restaurant at
           the River Inn, citing the temporary land use ordinance.

                                             Analysis

Land use decisions by municipal officials in the land use context are afforded great deference.

        This court has long recognized that municipal land use decisions should be upheld
        unless those decisions are arbitrary and capricious or otherwise illegal. Indeed,
        municipal land use decisions as a whole are generally entitled to a "great deal of
        deference.". . . Given this deferential disposition, we have held that it is "the
        court's duty to resolve all doubts in favor" of the municipality, and the burden is
        on the plaintiff challenging a municipal land use decision to show that the
        municipal action was clearly beyond the city's power.

Bradley v. Payson City Corp., 2003 UT 16, 70 P.3d 47, at ¶10, 12, 14. (citations omitted).

        (3) (a) The courts shall:




Advisory Opinion – MBI/Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2007 – page 4 of 17 pages
       (i) presume that a decision, ordinance, or regulation made under the authority of
       this chapter is valid; and (ii) determine only whether or not the decision,
       ordinance, or regulation is arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.
       (b) A decision, ordinance, or regulation involving the exercise of legislative
       discretion is valid if the decision, ordinance, or regulation is reasonably debatable
       and not illegal.
       (c) A final decision of a land use authority or an appeal authority is valid if the
       decision is supported by substantial evidence in the record and is not arbitrary,
       capricious, or illegal.
       (d) A determination of illegality requires a determination that the decision,
       ordinance, or regulation violates a law, statute, or ordinance in effect at the time
       the decision was made or the ordinance or regulation adopted.

U.C.A. § 10-9a-801(3).

                                          Vested Rights

Utah law also provides, however, that there are specific and defined standards that determine
whether a land use decision violates vested rights. According to statute:

       An applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the application
       conforms to the requirements of the municipality's land use maps, zoning map,
       and applicable land use ordinance in effect when a complete application is
       submitted and all fees have been paid, unless:
       (i) the land use authority, on the record, finds that a compelling, countervailing
       public interest would be jeopardized by approving the application; or
       (ii) in the manner provided by local ordinance and before the application is
       submitted, the municipality has formally initiated proceedings to amend its
       ordinances in a manner that would prohibit approval of the application as
       submitted.

U.C.A. § 10-9a-509(1)(a). In this matter, Moyal claims he attempted to file an application on
behalf of MBI for a land use approval and the City refused to consider it. The City has cited two
reasons for that refusal: 1) that there is a temporary land use ordinance in place prohibiting the
consideration of land use applications and/or 2) that the temporary ordinance was a “pending
ordinance” which is to say an amendment to the land use ordinance as described in item (ii)
above, at the time that Moyal claims he tendered his application.

This opinion is to address the issue of whether or not the City may refuse to consider MBI’s
application under either or both of these bases.




Advisory Opinion – MBI/Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2007 – page 5 of 17 pages
                                Temporary Land Use Ordinance

Under Utah law, a municipality may adopt a temporary land use ordinance (sometimes
inaccurately referred to as a “moratorium”) with an effective period of no more than six months.
Again, the statute:

       (1)(a) A municipal legislative body may, without prior consideration of or
       recommendation from the planning commission, enact an ordinance establishing a
       temporary land use regulation for any part or all of the area within the
       municipality if:
       (i) the legislative body makes a finding of compelling, countervailing public
       interest; or
       (ii) the area is unregulated.
       (b) A temporary land use regulation under Subsection (1)(a) may prohibit or
       regulate the erection, construction, reconstruction, or alteration of any building or
       structure or any subdivision approval.
       (c) A temporary land use regulation under Subsection (1)(a) may not impose an
       impact fee or other financial requirement on building or development.
       (2) The municipal legislative body shall establish a period of limited effect for
       the ordinance not to exceed six months.

U.C.A. § 10-9a-504. The City of Ogden passed the Ordinance on January 2, 2007. It had an
effective date of December 19, 2006 on its face and is set to expire on its own terms on June 19,
2007.

The Ordinance provides that within the defined project area and during that six month period
there is to be no erection, construction, or alteration of any building or structure; no acceptance
or approval of any application for subdivision, use changes, building permits, site plan reviews,
conditional use permits or other development approval for new construction, remodeling, or
additions; and no acceptance or processing of a petition for rezoning.

A temporary land use ordinance related to developed property can only be legally enacted if the
legislative body of the municipality finds a “compelling, countervailing public interest”.
U.C.A. § 10-9a-504(1)(a)(i) (emphasis added).

                          Compelling, Countervailing Public Interest

The term “compelling, countervailing public interest” is only found twice in Utah statutes. The
term is used in the statute cited above for temporary land use ordinances and also in U.C.A. § 10-
9a-509, which allows a city to deny an application conforming with the city’s ordinances if the
city finds a compelling, countervailing public interest. The two words “compelling,
countervailing” appear together in five of Utah’s appellate decisions, most prominently in
Western Land Equities v. Logan City, a land use case.



Advisory Opinion – MBI/Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2007 – page 6 of 17 pages
        The above competing interests are best accommodated in our view by adopting
        the rule that an applicant is entitled to a building permit or subdivision approval if
        his proposed development meets the zoning requirements in existence at the time
        of his application and if he proceeds with reasonable diligence, absent a
        compelling, countervailing public interest.

617 P.2d 388, 396 (Utah 1980) (emphasis added). The other cases involve three issues: a
referendum on zoning decisions (Mouty v. Sandy City Recorder, 2005 UT 41); a court’s
reluctance to take judicial notice of disputed facts (State v. Redd, 954 P.2d 230 (UT App 1998)
and Finlayson v. Finlayson, 874 P.2d 843 (UT App 1994)); and the raising of new issues on
appeal to the appellate court (Mel Trimble Real Estate v. Monte Vista Ranch, 758 P.2d 451 (UT
App 1988)). In Mouty, the Utah Supreme Court ruled that the right of citizens to place
legislative land use decisions on the ballot is a compelling, countervailing public interest. The
latter line of cases each held that the facts of each case did not create a compelling,
countervailing basis that justified an exception to a prevailing rule.

If we broaden the search for a definition of the phrase and unbundle the words, we find the
phrase “compelling state interest” is used quite extensively in our jurisprudence, most notably
with the protection of constitutional rights.

A compelling state interest is a "paramount" interest, one of "the highest order." Sherbert v.
Verner, 374 U.S. 398, 403 (1963). Such interests are usually associated with fundamental rights:

        the right to earn one's livelihood by rendering a useful service is a property right, which
        should not be impaired unless there is a compelling public interest which supersedes it
        and justifies interfering therewith.

Stone v. Dept. of Registration, 567 P.2d 1115 (Utah 1977). Utah’s appellate courts have
commonly used the term “compelling” to describe the type of public interest that can be
countervailing, usually when discussing individual rights. 1


1 For example: Jeffs v. Stubbs, 970 P.2d 1234 (Utah 1998) (holding that free speech is only to be burdened if

a compelling state interest is found and the law is the least restrictive means of accomplishing that
interest, and the state has a compelling interest in ensuring that all parties are able to resolve legal
disputes before a neutral tribunal); Kearns-Tribune Corp. v. Lewis, 685 P.2d 515 (Utah 1984) (holding that
the public’s right of access to a criminal trial subject only to “narrowly tailored exceptions tied to a
compelling state interest”); In re P, 648 P.2d 1364 (Utah 1982) (holding that the cutting of family ties is a
step of the utmost gravity which should be done only for the most compelling reasons ); State v. Holm,
2006 UT 31 (holding that Utah is justified, by a compelling interest, in upholding and enforcing its ban on
plural marriage to protect the monogamous marriage relationship); Gallivan v. Walker, 2002 UT 89
(holding that "the right of individuals to associate for the advancement of political beliefs, and the right of
qualified voters, regardless of their political persuasion, to cast their votes effectively"); and State v.
Debooy, 2000 UT 32 (holding that the State has a clear and compelling interest in promoting highway
safety and keeping drunk drivers off the road) (emphasis added).


Advisory Opinion – MBI/Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2007 – page 7 of 17 pages
While the phrase “compelling interest” is used sparingly in state statutes, it does appear five
times outside of the land use statutes --- once in describing concerns about nuclear waste and
four times with regard to the protection of children. 2

The use of the term “compelling public interest” implicates a balancing of competing interests,
and, when considered in light of the other contexts in which the phrase is used, indicates that
fundamental rights are in play:

         With respect to the specific provisions before this Court, it is necessary to
         determine at the outset the proper standard of review, namely, whether the
         challenged provisions . . . operate to the disadvantage of a suspect class or
         impinge upon a fundamental right protected by the constitution such that the state
         would need to demonstrate a compelling interest in the subject matter of the
         statute in order to justify the resulting discrimination . . .

         *****

         A legislative determination to interfere with, limit, or abrogate the availability of
         remedies for injuries to person, property, or reputation requires an important state
         interest and a rational means of implementation. The greater the intrusion upon
         the constitutionally protected interest, the greater and more explicit the state's
         reasons must be. It is necessary for the legislature, first, and this Court, second, to
         balance the weight of the governmental interest at stake against the countervailing
         importance of the individual rights being compromised.

         This due process approach offers some degree of flexibility. Under equal
         protection, the selection of the standard of review virtually determines the
         outcome, and selection of the standard of review depends in turn on a rather rigid
         system of classification of the individual rights in question.

         Most frequently, the level of protection which the courts will afford the
         constitutional provision depends on the nature of the substantive right being
         asserted in the underlying claim. If the substantive right is deemed to be
         "fundamental," statutory restrictions will be examined very closely under the
         strict scrutiny test; only the presence of a compelling state interest will justify the
         restriction or denial of access to the courts. If, on the other hand, the substantive
         right being asserted is not the subject of a specific constitutional protection and is
         therefore not fundamental, then the rational basis test provides that access to the

2
 The phrase is used to justify laws related to the transfer and storage of nuclear and radioactive waste, U.C.A. § 19-
3-318(2)(a); separation of natural parents from their children, U.C.A. § 62A-4a-201(1); avoidance of abuse and
neglect of children, U.C.A. § 62A-4a-201(2); protection of the lives of unborn children, U.C.A. § 76-7-301.1(2); and
provision of stable and permanent homes for adoptive children and in the requirement that parents meet the medical
and financial needs of children, U.C.A. § 78-30-4.12 (emphasis added in each case).


Advisory Opinion – MBI/Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2007 – page 8 of 17 pages
       courts may be restricted if a rational or reasonable basis for the restriction is
       shown.

Condemarin v. University Hospital, 775 P.2d 348 (Utah 1989) (emphasis added). By this
analysis, therefore, the Court is saying that the use of the term “compelling interest” is
essentially linked to a “fundamental right”. Since the legislature used the term “compelling,
countervailing public interest” to describe the kind of imperative that would justify interference
with property uses by a temporary land use ordinance, those property rights protected by such a
standard must be “fundamental” and the justification for interfering with those rights must be
significant. This makes eminent sense, since the statute that allows the imposition of a
temporary land use ordinance waives some of the normal due process requirements of the land
use regulation system. A temporary land use ordinance need not be reviewed by the planning
commission and therefore need not have the more thorough review and public comment period
that the land use regulation system provides.

             Did Ogden Establish a Compelling, Countervailing Public Interest?

In the landmark case in this area, the Utah Supreme Court gave some indication about what
would and would not be a “compelling, countervailing public interest.”

       . . . a rule which vests a right unconditionally at the time application for a permit
       is made affords no protection for important public interests that may legitimately
       require interference with planned private development. If a proposal met zoning
       requirements at the time of application but seriously threatens public health,
       safety, or welfare, the interests of the public should not be thwarted.

Western Land Equities, Inc. v. City of Logan, 617 P.2d 388, 395-396 (Utah 1980).

       A property owner should be able to plan for developing his property in a manner
       permitted by existing zoning regulations with some degree of assurance that the
       basic ground rules will not be changed in midstream. Clearly it is desirable to
       reduce the necessity for a developer to resort to the courts. An applicant for
       approval of a planned and permitted use should not be subject to shifting policies
       that do not reflect serious public concerns.

Id. at 617 P.2d 396. According to Western Land Equities, it was not a compelling,
countervailing public interest to disallow subdivisions in an M-1 zone and permit
residences by special permit, even though the City of Logan raised fire protection
concerns. Inadequate sidewalks were also mentioned as not rising to the level of a
compelling public interest. “It is incumbent upon a city, however, to act in good faith and
not to reject an application because the application itself triggers zoning reconsiderations
that result in a substitution of the judgment of current city officials for that of their
predecessors.” Id.



Advisory Opinion – MBI/Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2007 – page 9 of 17 pages
The Western Land Equities case allows, however, that:

       A city should not be unduly restricted in effectuating legitimate policy changes
       when they are grounded in recognized legislative police powers. There may be
       instances when an application would for the first time draw attention to a serious
       problem that calls for an immediate amendment to a zoning ordinance, and such
       an amendment would be entitled to valid retroactive effect.

Id. It is a balancing test. “Regardless of the circumstances, a court must be cognizant of
legitimate public concerns in considering whether a particular development should be protected
from the effects of a desirable new law.” Id.

So, to summarize, if an interest is a compelling, countervailing interest, then it is a “legitimate
public concern”; “a serious problem” that calls for an “immediate amendment to a zoning
ordinance.” It is not just a “zoning reconsideration” that results in a “substitution of the
judgment of current city officials for that of their predecessors.”

According to Western Land, A court will review the details of a claim by a municipality that a
compelling, countervailing public interest exists, and will not find such an interest just because
fire safety is mentioned, for example. It will probe deeper to determine if there really is a
legitimate fire safety concern rather than just find a compelling interest because the municipality
raises a fire safety issue.

As a court would do, this advisory opinion will therefore determine if the justifications cited by
the City of Ogden for its temporary land use ordinance pass muster as compelling, countervailing
public interests.

                                      Ogden’s Justifications

In general, moratoria are commonly accepted tools in the land use planning arena. Indeed, even
the Supreme Court of the United States has commented to that effect:

       In fact, the consensus in the planning community appears to be that moratoria, or
       “interim development controls” as they are often called, are an essential tool of
       successful development. See J. Juergensmeyer & T. Roberts, Land Use Planning
       and Control Law §§5.28(G) and 9.6 (1998); Garvin & Leitner, Drafting Interim
       Development Ordinances: Creating Time to Plan, 48 Land Use Law & Zoning
       Digest 3 (June 1996) (“With the planning so protected, there is no need for hasty
       adoption of permanent controls in order to avoid the establishment of
       nonconforming uses, or to respond in an ad hoc fashion to specific problems.
       Instead, the planning and implementation process may be permitted to run its full
       and natural course with widespread citizen input and involvement, public debate,
       and full consideration of all issues and points of view”); Freilich, Interim



Advisory Opinion – MBI/Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2007 – page 10 of 17 pages
        Development Controls: Essential Tools for Implementing Flexible Planning and
        Zoning, 49 J. Urb. L. 65 (1971).

        *****

        To the extent that communities are forced to abandon using moratoria, landowners
        will have incentives to develop their property quickly before a comprehensive
        plan can be enacted, thereby fostering inefficient and ill-conceived growth.

        *****
        It may well be true that any moratorium that lasts for more than one year should
        be viewed with special skepticism. But given the fact that the District Court found
        that the 32 months required by TRPA to formulate the 1984 Regional Plan was
        not unreasonable, we could not possibly conclude that every delay of over one
        year is constitutionally unacceptable. Formulating a general rule of this kind is a
        suitable task for state legislatures . . .

Tahoe-Sierra Preservation Council v. Tahoe Regional Planning Agency, 535 U. S. 302 (2002).
(emphasis added). The bottom line with this statement by the Court is that moratoria are an
appropriate, necessary part of good planning, but each state legislature, not the court (or the
writers of advisory opinions) should be the source of guidance as to the appropriate use of
moratoria. Despite this commonly held belief, and despite the common practice of using
moratoria (temporary land use ordinances) to call a “time out” so new land use ordinances can be
reviewed without undue development pressure, our legislature has made that difficult. In Utah,
the legislature adopted very restrictive language requiring that a “compelling, countervailing
public interest” be found on the record before a temporary land use ordinance can be enacted.
The instant issue is whether Ogden’s justifications rise to that level.

In the body of Ordinance No. 2007-2, the Ogden City Council lists the justifications for its
actions. They can be paraphrased as follows:

   1.      The Ogden City Redevelopment Agency’s Ogden River Redevelopment Project Area
           Plan has been adopted in a process that included review and approval by the Planning
           Commission and City Council.
   2.      There exists a need to establish higher density mixed use housing and retail
           development opportunities.
   3.      The Mountain View Community Plan envisions “mixed use quality development”
           that would require new zoning regulations.
   4.      The current zone allows inconsistent development, including single family housing
           and manufacturing uses.
   5.      The current zoning does not provide adequate standards and requirements that would
           disallow inappropriate land uses according to the plans cited.



Advisory Opinion – MBI/Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2007 – page 11 of 17 pages
   6.      Significant investment by existing owners that is inconsistent with the plans will
           hinder the goals and objectives of the plans.
   7.      New zoning standards are needed to prevent inconsistent development.
   8.      Development must be restricted because no zoning regulations are now in existence
           that would provide for the development the plans envision.
   9.      Inconsistent interim development would result in significant and permanent impacts
           to the community.

The ordinance also includes a provision providing an effective date of approximately two weeks
prior to the date of the council’s action in order to be sure that any applications submitted after
December 19, 2006 would not be processed. According to the audio recording made of the
council meeting held January 2, 2007, that date was selected as the date that a “pending
ordinance” was effective. On that date a memo was prepared and circulated among the staff of
the city and an email was sent to the staff directing them not to accept land use applications
within the river project area.

It is to be noted that “The Ogden River Redevelopment Project Area Plan” provided by the City
is the “Final Project Area Plan” and is dated June 20, 2002. The Mountain View Community
Plan provided by the City for this review indicates that it was “Adopted August 2004.” The
river project plan was therefore four and a half years old as of the effective date of the temporary
land use ordinance, although the urgent need for implementation of the river project plan was
cited through the text of the ordinance and the presentations made before the City Council when
the temporary land use ordinance was adopted.

The Mountain View Community Plan was adopted two years and four months before the
temporary land use ordinance. This delay between the time the vision was set for the area and
the temporary land use ordinance would seem to blunt a claim that there was a compelling,
countervailing public interest in abruptly stopping any potential development that might be
contrary to these plans. But development has apparently been allowed for more than four years
after the river plan was adopted in final form.

It is also of note that Greg Montgomery, the planner who commented before the City Council
when the temporary land use ordinance was adopted, mentioned that potential inappropriate
development had been controlled in the past by the idea that the City (the RDA) could use
eminent domain to assemble property for projects. That power was revoked by the 2005 Utah
Legislature. The temporary land use ordinance was passed almost two years later. Again, the
question before us is whether there is sufficient urgency to meet the statutory standards.

There is an accepted principle in Utah law, that “because zoning ordinances are in derogation of
a property owner's common-law right to unrestricted use of his or her property, provisions
therein restricting property uses should be strictly construed, and provisions permitting property
uses should be liberally construed in favor of the property owner.” Patterson v. Utah County Bd.
of Adjustment, 893 P.2d 602, 606 (Utah Ct. App. 1995).



Advisory Opinion – MBI/Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2007 – page 12 of 17 pages
We will apply the same standard for interpretation of the state statute in this case. If the state
statute is strictly construed, the justification for a temporary land use ordinance must be
significant. As defined above, a “compelling” interest is a significant issue, though it is hard to
imagine that the legislature intended the language to be so strictly interpreted as to prohibit
moratoria altogether. Indeed, the legislature has specifically stated that a temporary ordinance is
justified to avoid the building of homes in the path of planned highway projects (U.C.A. § 10-9a-
504(3)), and no doubt would support an effort to avoid construction in the face of soil subsidence
or newly-discovered geological risks. These interests are higher and more compelling than
economic considerations or compatibility matters, the typical issues in run-of-the mill land use
cases.

There is no such compelling interest in this case.

While it is true that Ogden’s long term vision for the future of its downtown neighborhoods is an
important goal, the incremental benefit of a total freeze on development and building activities
for six months does not seem compelling when considered in light of the fact that the City
somehow survived four and a half years of development activity under the current zoning after
the river project plan was adopted in final form.

Item 10 in the list of findings indicates that inconsistent interim development would result in
significant and permanent impacts to the community. Even if this is true, this principle is one of
the basic premises for the entire regulatory structure of local land use controls. Any time a
building is built, the result can be significant and permanent. Local government has been
granted broad power to regulate land use in any manner where it is found to be “reasonably
debatable” that the regulations advance the general welfare. Under that standard, at least one
court has stated that there is “no Utah case, nor a case from any other jurisdiction, in which a
zoning classification was reversed on grounds that it was arbitrary or capricious.” Harmon City,
Inc. v Draper City, 2000 UT App 31 at par. 18. There is hardly any restraint at all on the
decisions of local government under such a standard.

But by using the term “compelling” the legislature meant to include as a fundamental right the
ability of a property owner to improve or develop property under those existing zoning rules.
Even the courts have said it is not a compelling interest for one group of civic leaders to
substitute their current judgment about land use for the past judgment of their predecessors.
Western Land at 617 P.2d 396. In order to be “compelling”, the interest involved must “seriously
threaten public health, safety, or welfare.” Id.

This matter does not involve the kind of situation cited in the Western Land case where “an
application would for the first time draw attention to a serious problem that calls for an
immediate amendment to a zoning ordinance.” Id. Indeed the river project plan had been
adopted four and a half years before this temporary zoning ordinance was put into effect and had
been under consideration for a year before that, according to Ogden City documents.




Advisory Opinion – MBI/Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2007 – page 13 of 17 pages
Much of the discussion before the Ogden City Council on January 2 was about the goal of
having residential development in the river project area rather than industrial projects. But the
Western Land case specifically states that the City of Logan did not raise a compelling,
countervailing public interest in its goal to disallow subdivisions in an M-1 zone and permit
residences by special permit. Since Western Land holds that land use preferences similar to those
driving the Ogden temporary land use ordinance do not constitute compelling interests, Ogden’s
preferences about whether property develops with residential or industrial uses specifically do
not meet the compelling interest standard.

Again, to quote Condemarin: “If the substantive right is deemed to be ‘fundamental,’ statutory
restrictions will be examined very closely under the strict scrutiny test; only the presence of a
compelling state interest will justify the restriction or denial of access to the courts.” The courts
have consistently held in the cases above that if a right is fundamental, a compelling reason must
be found to countervail that right. By the same token, if the legislature decreed that the finding
of a compelling interest is necessary to restrict a property right, then we must conclude that the
legislature has also deemed that property right to be fundamental, and must look carefully at the
justification provided to interfere with that right.

The interests cited to support the Ordinance were not compelling, countervailing public interests.
They were the stuff of typical zoning decisions – the choice of uses – and were not so urgent that
a temporary zoning ordinance was deemed necessary for the first four and a half years after the
river project plan was adopted. Based on the statutory standard of review, the Ordinance was
illegally enacted by the Ogden City Council.

                                        Pending Ordinance

Utah statute also provides that a pending ordinance can be enforced during the time that it is
being considered for adoption, but not for a period longer than six months. See U.C.A. § 10-9a-
509, the text of which is provided above. The last sentence of this section of the code states the
“pending ordinance” exception to the general rule that if a person submits a land use application
it must be considered under the law in place when the application is submitted in complete form
and all the fees are paid unless “the municipality has formally initiated proceedings to amend its
ordinances in a manner that would prohibit approval of the application as submitted.”

Utah Code Annotated § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(ii). The City claims that there was a pending
ordinance under consideration at the time that Moyal says he tendered an application for
site plan approval. The Ordinance says “this regulation” (the temporary land use
ordinance) had been pending since December 19, 2006.

The issue is rendered irrelevant, however, by the fact that the ordinance once adopted was illegal
and thus unenforceable. Since it was adopted on January 2, 2007, the temporary land use
ordinance is no longer “pending” today. Since it was illegally adopted, it was not legally
pending in December of 2006. Whatever application Moyal filed in December can be considered
and approved if it meets the standards of the then-applicable ordinances.


Advisory Opinion – MBI/Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2007 – page 14 of 17 pages
In our review of the current status of these matters we inquired about any subsequent ordinance
that might now be pending and applicable to BMI’s application. We were told that there was no
text of an ordinance available for review. This would lead us to conclude that in January and
February of this year there was also no new, second “pending ordinance” that was under formal
consideration in a form that would “prohibit approval of the application as submitted” in
December.

                                            Conclusion

Utah law requires the finding of a “compelling, countervailing public interest” to support the
enactment of a temporary land use ordinance. These temporary land use ordinances (some of
which could be styled as a “moratorium”) are enacted without any of the notice and due process
requirements typically required of land use statutes. They have the ability, such as in this case, to
completely deny all changes in the use of developed private property, or any use at all of vacant
land, for a period of time of six months or less. Because of the intrusive nature of such
temporary ordinances, adopted without the same due process, there is a higher duty imposed on
local municipal officials to justify them. Ogden’s findings cite a preference for one land use over
another as justification for the temporary ordinance, and suggested that the matter is urgent
although the river project plan, which is the basis for the temporary ordinance, was adopted four
and a half years ago. These findings did not meet the higher threshold of a compelling,
countervailing public interest. Ogden Ordinance No. 2007-2, the temporary land use ordinance
for the River Project, was therefore illegally enacted. Since it was not legally enacted, it also
does not and did not constitute a “pending ordinance” that could be relied upon to deny the
application for a restaurant at 1875 Washington Boulevard. If that application was complete and
in a form that the City would normally proceed to review and act upon, the City must do so.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, §13-42-205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.



Advisory Opinion – MBI/Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2007 – page 15 of 17 pages
While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.




Advisory Opinion – MBI/Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2007 – page 16 of 17 pages
                                  MAILING CERTIFICATE

U.C.A. §13-43-206(10)(b) requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to the government
entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with U.C.A. §63-30d-401 (Notices Filed
Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

               Cindi Mansell
               Ogden City Recorder
               2549 Washington Blvd. Suite #210
               Ogden, UT 84401

On this ___________ Day of April, 2007, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.



                              ______________________________________________________
                              Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – MBI/Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2007 – page 17 of 17 pages
