                       Advisory Opinion #98
                       Parties: Providence City and Sandra and Chris Checketts
                                        Issued: March 28, 2011

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES

                        Nonconforming uses and Noncomplying Structures
                                  Interpretation of Ordinances

A local government has discretion to determine if the requirements of an ordinance have been
met. A use that was not permitted cannot qualify as nonconforming, even if it has been allowed
to continue. Local governments have broad discretion over enforcement, and lack of
enforcement in the past does not excuse a violation.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                           State of Utah
                           Department of Commerce
JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
       Governor
                           OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN

 GARY R. HERBERT
 Lieutenant Governor




                                          ADVISORY OPINION

       Advisory Opinion Requested by:               Providence City
                                                    Craig J. Carlston, City Attorney

       Local Government Entity:                     Providence City

       Applicant for the Land Use Appeal:           Sandra and Chris Checketts

       Type of Property:                            Residential Lot

       Date of this Advisory Opinion:               March 28, 2011

       Opinion Authored By:                         Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney, Office of the Property
                                                    Rights Ombudsman



                                                    Issues
       May a granite countertop business be considered light manufacturing under a City’s ordinances?

       When does a use qualify for nonconforming status?

       Is a local government estopped from enforcing zoning and license ordinances because of building
       permits or because of business licenses that were erroneously issued?

       When does enforcement of local ordinances constitute a taking of property rights under the U.S.
       and Utah Constitutions?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
       The City has discretion to determine that the business may be approved as a conditional use under
       the city's current ordinances allowing light manufacturing as a home business. Even though the
       business may not have been allowed under prior ordinances, it can still be approved as a
       conditional use, if the City agrees that its ordinances have been met. Combining two lots, even in
       an unusual configuration, may satisfy a requirement that a home business be located on the same
property as a residence. The City’s ordinances do not limit the shape or configuration of a parcel,
so even an unusual configuration may be considered a lot, provided that other requirements, such
as setbacks, etc. can be met.

In order to qualify for nonconforming use status, a land use must have been allowed or permitted
when it was undertaken, but then became illegal due to an zoning ordinance change. A use that
was not allowed at the time it was established cannot become a nonconforming use, even if its
existence was acknowledged by the City. Nonconforming status arises from zoning regulation,
not licensing ordinances. A change in a health and safety ordinance, including business license
regulations, does not necessarily entitle a property owner to claim nonconforming use status.

A local government is not estopped from enforcing its zoning and licensing ordinances because of
valid building permit or erroneous business licenses. Approval of a building permit does not
constitute an act sufficient to justify reliance by a property owner that a particular use was allowed.
In addition, a local government does not forfeit the right to enforce its ordinances, even if it issues
business licenses in error.

Finally, enforcement of zoning and licensing ordinances does not constitute a taking of a property
interest, unless the regulation is so onerous that it becomes the functional equivalent of a physical
appropriation of the property. In general, regulation of land use and economic activity is not the
functional equivalent of an appropriation of property rights. Additionally, a property owner must
show complete loss of economic value to demonstrate a taking under the Lucas decision.

                                               Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final decision
by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-205. An
advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or other
specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such a
review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

A request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Craig J. Carlston, Providence City Attorney
on January 18, 2011. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Sandra and Chris
Checketts, in care of their attorney, Christopher L. Daines. The Checketts submitted a response to
the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, which was received on March 7, 2011.




Advisory Opinion – Checketts/Providence City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 28, 2011 – 2 of 17 pages
                                                    Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, including attachments, filed January 18, 2011 with
                 the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman by Craig J. Carlston
     2.          Response from Sandra and Chris Checketts, received on March 7, 2010.
     3.          Custom Countertops Website, www.granitetopsofutah.com.
     4.          Sections from the Providence City Code, including the former language of the Code.


                                                 Background
Sandra and Chris Checketts (“Checketts”) own two lots on East Canyon Road in Providence. The
Checketts reside in a home located on one lot (Lot Number 1, or the “Home Lot”), and they built
a large garage or storage building on the other lot (Lot Number 5, or the “Business Lot”). The two
lots are not contiguous, and are separated by three other lots with homes. The address for the Home
Lot is 990 East Canyon Road, and the Business Lot’s address is 920 East Canyon Road. The area
is generally rural in character, with little development to the rear of the properties.1 The Checketts
moved into their home prior to 1997.

In 1997, the Checketts applied for a permit to construct a building on the Business Lot. In their
application, they stated that the building would be used for “storage,” and its area would be 30 x
165 feet (4,950 square feet).2 In June of 2004, the Checketts applied for a permit to construct a
900 square-foot “Garage Addition” extending from the side of the existing building.3 The
application states that the purpose of this addition was for “storage.” This permit received
“Planning Approval” and “Building Official Approval.” The permit also includes this statement:
“Approved as a detached accessory use in the SFT zone as per PLC 10-8-1.”4 Despite these
approvals, it appears that the addition was not built at that time. In November of 2005, however,
the Checketts obtained a permit for the addition. This permit stated that the intended use of the
new structure was “commercial.” The permit received “Zoning Approval” and “Building Official
Approval.” The permit also referenced the 2004 application, although it stated that it was a “new
application.”5

In the meantime, the Checketts started a business, “Custom Countertops,” sometime in 2003. As
the name implies, the business involves building and installing countertops. According to the
Checketts, the business initially consisted of constructing the countertops at the homes where they
were installed. The Checketts ran the business out of their home, using the building on Lot 5

1
  Lot 5 is approximately .81 acres. There is some landscaping in the front yard.
2
  The height of the building was not indicated, but it appears to be about the same as nearby homes.
3
  In 1999, the Checketts constructed a “lean-to” on the side of the building for hay storage. That structure was later
removed.
4
  Providence City Permit Number 2004-74 (June 4, 2004). “PLC” evidently refers to the Providence Land Code.
5
  Providence City Permit Number 2005-229 (November 14, 2005).

Advisory Opinion – Checketts/Providence City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 28, 2011 – 3 of 17 pages
primarily for storing materials and tools.6 As the business grew, granite countertops became more
popular, and the Checketts began using the storage building to cut and shape counters for delivery
to homes.7 The 2005 addition was designed and built specifically to accommodate granite slabs,
and was an investment in the business.8 The floor of the addition is sloped, to drain cutting fluids
from the work area. The addition houses a lift system to help manipulate the granite slabs while
they are being prepared, as well as large saws and other equipment for stone cutting and polishing.
A portion of the building is used as a showroom for the public, and there are parking spaces for 3-
4 cars. Based on photographs at the Custom Countertops website, some of the granite slabs are
stored outside, but it appears that none of the cutting or shaping is done outdoors. The building
has white siding, and there is some landscaping in the front.

The City granted business licenses to the Checketts from 2003 to 2008. The 2003 license
application was for a home occupation license, and that the business activity was to “receiv[e]
orders by fax or phone for countertops. Assembles, delivers, and installs tops on site in homes . .
. .” The 2004 application stated described the business activity as follows: “[manufacture] and
install solid surface counter tops.” The 2005 building addition allowed the Checketts to intensify
the activity on Lot 5, and the City renewed their business licenses annually through 2008.9 The
Checketts state that they currently have one full-time and one part-time employee, in addition to
family members who work for the business.

In the summer of 2008, the City received complaints from neighbors about Custom Countertops.
The legality of the business and its suitability in a residential neighborhood were questioned.10 In
July of 2008, the City sent a letter to the Checketts, informing them that because their business
was not a permitted home business, the City would not renew their business license for 2009. In
a letter dated September 12, 2008, the City’s attorney explained that Custom Countertops could
not be considered a valid home business for two reasons: (1) The business was conducted on a
separate parcel than the Checketts’ home; and (2) The type of business was not permitted in a
residential neighborhood.

In 2003, when Custom Countertops was first established, the City’s Home Business Ordinance
required that a home business be located on the homeowner’s land. The ordinance also prohibited
equipment “not normally found in a residential neighborhood.” The ordinance was amended in
2010. The equipment prohibition was removed, and the location requirement was altered to require
that the business activity be on the same parcel as the home.11


6
  The Checketts still use their home as the “headquarters,” or offices of the business.
7
  The Checketts’s response implied that the business incorporates other countertop materials, but did not state how
much of their business is granite countertops, which requires specialized equipment. It appears that Custom
Countertops also works in other types of stone, and is not exclusively limited to countertops.
8
  The Checketts state that the 2005 addition cost more than $130,000.00, plus uncompensated labor provided by Mr.
Checketts himself.
9
  The licenses were renewed upon payment of the license fee. It is not clear whether the City required additional
information for the licenses, or if there was any inspection of the premises.
10
   The complaint also identified noise, dust, odors, late-night operations, traffic, safety concerns, environmental
damage, and visual appearance.
11
   The present language of the code allows for home businesses on the same parcel, or on an adjoining parcel owned
by the same owner. PROVIDENCE CITY CODE § 10-1-4 (Definition of Home Business)

Advisory Opinion – Checketts/Providence City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 28, 2011 – 4 of 17 pages
After negotiations with the City, the Checketts proposed that they be given sufficient time to sell
their home on Lot 1 and build a new home on Lot 5. This would satisfy the City’s first objection,
because both the home and the business operation would be on the same lot.12 The City eventually
extended the time to sell the home through December 31, 2010, but the Checketts have been unable
to find a buyer.13 In the summer of 2010, the Checketts state that they acquired one-foot wide
strips across the lots between Lots 1 and 5, and so the Home and Business Lots could technically
become one parcel.14

The Checketts answer the City’s second objection by claiming that their activity is a legal home
business, because they are “craftsmen,” which is a permitted home business under § 3-4-5(O) of
the Providence City Code. As alternatives, they claim nonconforming use status for the business
from 2003; or they argue that the City is estopped from enforcing its zoning and home business
ordinances because of building permit and business license approvals. Finally, they argue that
enforcing the City’s ordinances at this point constitutes a taking of their property interests, entitling
them to compensation under the U.S. and Utah Constitutions.15



                                                    Analysis
I.      The City Could Approve and Regulate the Checketts’ Business as a Conditional Use.

        A.       The Business Could Possibly be Approved as a Conditional Use

Because the City’s land use ordinance now allows “light manufacturing” as a conditional use in
residential zones, the Checketts’ business could possibly be approved with conditions. The City’s
current land use chart includes “light manufacturing” as a conditional use in the SFT zone,
provided it is approved as a home business as well as a conditional use. See PROVIDENCE CITY
CODE, § 10-6-1, footnote (Land Use Chart). The City Code stipulates that light manufacturing

        [s]hall include manufacturing and assembly processes that ordinarily do not create
        noise, smoke, fumes, glare, or odors that exceed the requirements of Title 3 Chapter
        4 and Title 4 of [the City Code]. Light manufacturing includes processes which do
        not require extensive floor area or land areas (must comply with zoning requirements
        for the zone that are listed in other chapters . . . .)

Id., § 10-1-4 (Definition of “Light Manufacturing”). Since the use is conditional, the City may
impose conditions to mitigate the detrimental impacts of the Checketts’ business.

The City has discretion to determine that the Checketts’ business satisfies the definition of “light
manufacturing, so that it can be considered as a conditional use. This Opinion does not take a
position on whether or not the City should so determine, but notes that such an interpretation is

12
   Lot 5 is large enough to accommodate both a home and the business.
13
   The City issued annual business licenses through December of 2010.
14
   The Checketts admit that they have not obtained subdivision approval for the lot changes.
15
   These arguments will be explored more fully in the Analysis section.

Advisory Opinion – Checketts/Providence City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 28, 2011 – 5 of 17 pages
probably reasonable, and it is within the City’s discretion to adopt that reasoning.16 If the City
chooses to allow the Checketts’ business as a conditional use, it must also adopt standards to guide
the conditions that can be imposed.

        (1) A land use ordinance may include conditional uses and provisions for conditional
            uses that require compliance with standards set forth in an applicable ordinance.

        (2) (a) A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are proposed, or
            can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the
            proposed use in accordance with applicable standards;

              (b) If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
              cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the imposition of reasonable
              conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use
              may be denied.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-507.

This statute distinguishes between “conditions” and “standards.” A condition is imposed on a use
to control or mitigate a detrimental effect. Standards establish the levels of performance to be
accomplished by the conditions. Standards may be viewed as goals, and conditions as the means
to achieve those goals. For example, if noise is a detrimental effect of a particular use, a local
government may impose conditions to control or lessen the noise. The standard would be the
acceptable level of noise, as expressed in the local government’s ordinances. The conditions
imposed must be shown to reduce the noise to the levels established by the standard. In essence,
the Utah Code requires local governments to determine acceptable levels of performance that can
be applied to all conditional uses, before the uses are proposed.17

It is therefore possible that the Checketts’ business may be approved as a conditional use. This
Opinion defers that decision to the City, which has discretion to determine (1) if the Checketts’
business should be considered “light manufacturing,” and, if so, (2) what standards apply and what
conditions to impose on the use.

        B.       The Requirements of the Home Business Ordinance Must Also be Met.

Along with considering the Checketts’ business as conditional use, the City must also decide
whether to approve it as a home business. A “Home Business” must meet these basic requirements:




16
   It is noted that the City Code expressly prohibits “cabinet shop, general contractor yard, lumber yard, and
welding/machine shop” in residential zones. The Checketts’ business could be classified under any of these uses,
particularly “cabinet shop.” However, none of those uses are defined, and there is no reason to believe that the City
could not reasonably apply the definition of “light manufacturing” to the Checketts’ business.
17
   The standards should be objective, and have a reasonably reliable basis. The procedure established by the Utah
Code envisions standards that apply to all similarly-situated conditional uses, rather than “inventing” standards on a
case-by-case basis. Local governments would be wise to adopt standards sooner rather than later.

Advisory Opinion – Checketts/Providence City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 28, 2011 – 6 of 17 pages
        1. A business conducted on land containing the primary dwelling or on an adjacent
           parcel owned by the same owner;

        2. Business owner must be a resident of the primary dwelling;

        3. May employ family members residing in the primary dwelling;

        4. May employ no more than four (4) individuals that do not reside in the primary
           dwelling but work at the premises;

        5. Provide sufficient parking and needed facilities for employees and customers
           completely and entirely on homeowner’s land containing the primary dwelling or
           an adjacent parcel owned by the homeowner[;]

        6. Does not change the aesthetic character of the area and zone;

        7. No commercial display, other than an unlighted nameplate sign (see Chapter 15
           [of Title 10]), which is two (2) square feet in area or less;

        8. Must comply with Title 3 Chapter 5 of [the City] Code;18

        9. Home businesses are subject to all licensing, inspections, laws and regulations,
           etc.

PROVIDENCE CITY CODE, § 10-4-1 (Definition of “Home Business”). There are additional
requirements found in § 3-4-5, which also must be satisfied, along with any conditions that may
be imposed.

A critical factor for home business approval is determining whether or not the Checketts’ business
is “conducted on land containing the primary dwelling.” Since its inception, “Custom
Countertops” has been conducted on two parcels, the Home Lot (Lot 1) and the Business Lot (Lot
5). The two lots are separated by other residential lots with homes. The Checketts acquired a one-
foot wide strip across the rear of those other lots, and have proposed using that strip to join Lots 1
and 5 into one lot. Doing so, they argue, would satisfy the City’s requirement that a home business
be conducted on the same parcel as the primary dwelling.

The City has stated that it “will entertain” such a proposal, but did not commit to accepting the lot
reconfiguration. Although the Checketts’ proposal creates an unusually-shaped parcel, it,
nevertheless, technically meets the definition of “lot” from the City Code:

        A parcel of land occupied, or to be occupied, by a main building, or group of buildings
        (main and accessory), together with such yards, open spaces, lot width and lot area


18
   That is how Section 10-1-4 reads. However, Chapter 5 of Title 3 governs “Canvassers, Peddlers, and Itinerant
Merchants.” It is possible that the correct cite is to Chapter 4, “Conditional Businesses.” That chapter includes § 3-4-
5, which is specifically applicable to home businesses.

Advisory Opinion – Checketts/Providence City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 28, 2011 – 7 of 17 pages
        as are required by this Title and having sufficient frontage upon, or access easement
        to, a public street.

Id., § 10-1-4 (Definition of “Lot”).19 Nothing in this definition dictates a particular shape or
configuration for a lot. This Opinion does not take a position on whether or not the proposed
configuration satisfies the requirements for a home business. Ultimately, that decision is the City’s.

The City may agree to accept the reconfigured lots as satisfying the home business ordinance if
the lot consolidation is completed.20 If so, and if the Checketts are able to comply with the other
requirements for a home business, and if the City approves the business as a condtional use, the
Checketts may be able to maintain their business lawfully at its present location. However, that
depends on whether the City accepts the lot and the possibility of the business being a conditional
use.

II.     Nonconforming Use is Not the Correct Analysis for This Situation.

Because it has not been shown that the Checketts’ business was lawfully established, but would
now be prohibited, analysis under nonconforming use statutes is not applicable. Property owners
are entitled to nonconforming use status for a property use that

             (a) legally existed before its current land use designation;

             (b) has been maintained continuously since the time the land use ordinance
                 governing the land changed; and

             (c) because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does not
                 conform to the regulations that now govern the use of the land.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-103(32). Nonconforming use status allows a property owner to continue
an established use even though the use has become prohibited. Id., § 10-9a-511(1).

        A.       The Business was Never Authorized as a Land Use, so it Cannot Qualify for
                 Nonconforming Use Status.

The Checketts do not qualify for nonconforming use status because they have not shown that their
business “legally existed” when it was first established. The City Code prohibited industrial or
manufacturing uses in 2003, when the business began, and in 2005, when the business activity on
Lot 5 intensified. The City’s zoning ordinances in place in 2003-2005 did not allow any type of
industrial or manufacturing uses in the SFT zone. These prohibited uses include “building
maintenance and repair,” “cabinet shop,” “general contractor yard,” “welding/machine shop,” and
“wholesale outlet/storage and sales.” See PROVIDENCE CITY CODE, § 10-6-2 (former language
19
   It is not known if the combined lot meets the yard, open space, width, area, and frontage requirements for the zone.
The one-foot wide strip may not satisfy width and setback requirements, but those requirements could possibly be
varied.
20
   The Checketts submitted deeds showing that they had acquired the strips across the neighboring properties Creating
those strips is a subdivision of the affected lots, which must be approved by the City, along with the lot consolidation.
See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-603.

Advisory Opinion – Checketts/Providence City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 28, 2011 – 8 of 17 pages
effective in 2003 and 2005).21 The Checketts’ countertop business is an industrial or
manufacturing use which could fit in any of these categories.22 In fact, the Checketts’ application
for a business license in 2003 and 2004 described the business as “manufacture” or “assembly” of
solid countertops. However, the classification assigned to the business is not important, because
no industrial or manufacturing use was allowed in the SFT zone.23 Since the use was not allowed,
it could not have been “legally established” in 2003 or 2005. Therefore, the Checketts are not
entitled to claim nonconforming use status, even if they began operations at that time.

As has already been discussed, the City’s zoning ordinances have changed, and the SFT zone now
allows “light manufacturing” as a conditional use home business. Ironically, the zone change is
actually beneficial to the Checketts, because it provides a possible means to legitimize the land use
rather than make it illegal. The ordinance change does not automatically make the business
“legally established,” because it is a conditional use, but it may become legal if it is approved by
the City. Nevertheless, nonconforming use analysis simply does not apply to this situation,
regardless of whether the conditional use is approved or not.

        B.       Changes to the City’s Home Business Ordinance Do Not Entitle the Checketts to
                 Nonconforming Use Status, Because the Changes do not Affect a Zoning Ordinance.

Both the City and the Checketts discuss changes to the City’s home business licensing ordinance,
and whether the Checketts are entitled to claim vested rights under that ordinance’s former
language.24 The City explains that in 2005, the language of its home business ordinance provided
that the business be entirely on the homeowner’s land.25 Since the Checketts owned both Lot 1
(the Home Lot) and Lot 5 (the Business Lot), their business arguably complied with that
provision—it was entirely on “land belonging to the homeowner.” That interpretation, however,
has not been confirmed or accepted by the City. That ordinance has been changed, and now a
home business must be located on the same parcel as the primary dwelling, or on an adjacent parcel
owned by the homeowner. Since the Checketts’ business is located on a separate and non-adjacent
parcel, it does not conform to the current ordinance. The Checketts therefore argue that they are
entitled to nonconforming use status because of the change to the Home Business Licensing
Ordinance.26

Nonconforming use analysis would not apply even if it is accepted that the Checketts’ business
satisfied the prior requirement by being on “land owned by the homeowner” (and that is by no
means settled).27 The Home Business Licensing Ordinance is not a land use ordinance.

21
   The City provided a copy of the former section 10-6-2, which includes a chart of permitted, conditional, and
prohibited uses for all zones.
22
   Section 10-6-2(A) provides a procedure to propose and approve land uses not specifically listed.
23
   The City code allowed several types of professional offices and retail uses, but all must comply with the City’s
home business regulations.
24
   A nonconforming use is essentially a vested right.
25
   The City did not provide the exact language of the former ordinance.
26
   Both the Checketts and the City focus on the former language prohibiting equipment not ordinarily found in
residential areas. However, that language has been repealed, and could no longer be applied to prohibit the Checketts’
business.
27
   It is not entirely clear that such an interpretation is reasonable. The language of the Home Business Ordinance
includes reference to business uses being “incidental” to a residential use, that the “residential character” of a

Advisory Opinion – Checketts/Providence City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 28, 2011 – 9 of 17 pages
Nonconforming use arises when an established legal land use becomes illegal because of a change
to a land use ordinance. Licensing and other health and safety ordinances are not land use
ordinances and thus do not implicate nonconforming use analysis. All land uses, including
nonconforming uses, are subject to health and safety regulations meant to reduce or eliminate
nuisances. Although health and safety regulations may change from time to time, the land use
would still be allowed if the land use ordinance has not changed.28

Simply put, the Checketts’ situation is not subject to nonconforming use analysis. In order to claim
the rights afforded to nonconforming uses, there has to be a nonconforming use. If the use does
not qualify for nonconforming status the statutes governing nonconforming uses do not apply. In
2003 and 2005, the City’s land use ordinance prohibited manufacturing uses, including the
Checketts’ business, in residential zones. The use, therefore, could not have been “legally
established,” and is thus ineligible for nonconforming use status. Compliance with licensing
ordinances and other health and safety regulations has little to do with whether a land use is legal
or not.

III. Building Permits and Business Licenses Do not Estop the City From Enforcing its
     Zoning and Licensing Ordinances.

Past business licenses and building permits do not estop the City from enforcing its home business
ordinance, because such approvals do not entitle a property owner to estop enforcement of zoning
laws. Under the “zoning estoppel” doctrine, a property owner may claim entitlement to an
otherwise-prohibited land use if the owner relied upon representations from a local government.

           The [zoning estoppel] principle estops a government entity from exercising its
           zoning powers to prohibit a proposed land use when a property owner, relying
           reasonably and in good faith on some governmental action or omission, has made
           a substantial change in position or incurred such extensive obligations or expenses
           that it would be highly inequitable to deprive the owner of his right to complete his
           proposed development.



neighborhood be preserved, and that uses are allowed in “accessory” buildings. Given these references, and the
ordinance’s overall intent to allow and regulate home-based businesses, it is reasonable to interpret the provision about
a home business being located entirely on the homeowner’s property as referring to activity on the same property as
the residence. See Mountain Ranch Estates v. Utah Tax Comm’n, 2004 UT 86, ¶ 11, 100 P.3d 1206, 1209 (“[t]he plain
language of the statute [should be read] as a whole, . . . [interpreting] its provisions in harmony with other statutes in
the same chapter and related chapters.”) A business cannot be “incidental” to residential use if the residence is on a
separate parcel. Moreover, restricting the meaning of the prior language to businesses located on the same parcel as
residences avoids the absurd result of making nearly any business a home business simply by showing that a business
is located on land that is also owned by a homeowner. See Millet v. Clark Clinic Corp., 609 P.2d 934, 936 (Utah 1980)
(“[I]nterpretations are to be avoided that render some part of a provision nonsensical or absurd.”) Ultimately, of
course, the City may decide how to interpret its ordinances.
28
   It is important to recognize the distinction between an ordinance which allows a land use, and one which merely
regulates that use. If a land use is prohibited, compliance with health, safety, or licensing regulations does not make
it “legal.” Conversely, if a land use is allowed, noncompliance with such regulations does not make it illegal. See
e.g., Vial v. Provo City, 2009 UT App 122, ¶ 16, 210 P.3d 947, 951 (Noncompliance with building permit requirements
has little to do with whether a land use is legally established.)

Advisory Opinion – Checketts/Providence City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 28, 2011 – 10 of 17 pages
Western Land Equities v. City of Logan, 617 P.2d 388, 391 (Utah 1980).

The governmental acts relied upon by the Checketts do not estop the City from enforcing its zoning
or home business ordinances. “To invoke the doctrine [the local government] must have committed
an act or omission upon which the developer could rely in good faith in making substantial changes
in position or incurring extensive expenses.” Utah County v. Young, 615 P.2d 1265, 1267 (Utah
1980). The Checketts claim reliance on the following: (1) The 2005 building permit, which
allowed them to build the addition to the storage building; and (2) Business licenses issued by the
City from 2003 through 2009. However, the permit and business licenses do not warrant enough
reliance to justify blocking enforcement of the City’s zoning or licensing ordinances.

        A.       Business Licenses Granted by the City do not Estop Enforcement of Zoning and
                 Licensing Ordinances.

In November of 2005, the City granted a building permit to construct an addition onto the building
which had been built in 1997. The permit only approved construction of the addition, and cannot
be construed as approving any sort of business activity. There is no question that the building was
allowed under the City’s zoning ordinance and that the permit was approved by the City, but the
permit does not discuss or approve the installation of any equipment or the conduct of any business
within that building.29 Therefore, approval of the building permit in 2005 should not be construed
as an act upon which the Checketts could reasonably rely as also granting approval for their
business activities.

This conclusion is supported by a series Utah Supreme Court decisions explaining the zoning
estoppel doctrine. In the first decision, the court maintained that “[o]rdinarily a municipality is
not precluded from enforcing its zoning regulations, when its officers have remained inactive in
the face of such violations.” Salt Lake County v. Kartchner, 552 P.2d 136, 138 (Utah 1976). In
Kartchner, a landowner was cited for violating setback ordinances. 30 The county’s building
inspectors became aware of construction on the property and notified the homeowner of the
potential violation. Nevertheless, the owner continued construction, and the county took no action
for several months. When the owner was finally cited for the setback violation (after construction
was completed), he pointed to several similar violations on properties in the immediate area. The
county admitted that there were several violations that had not been cited. 31 On appeal, the Utah
Supreme Court held that it would be inequitable to enforce the requirement when there were so
many other violations that had been ignored.32 Under the unique circumstances of the case, the
owner was allowed to keep the building.



29
   The permit approved in June of 2004 stated that the addition was “approved as [a] detached accessory use in the
SFT zone as per PLC 10-8-1.” The Checketts did not construct the addition approved by the 2004 permit, but the
2005 permit was for the same addition.
30
   The construction at issue enclosed an existing carport, and was undertaken without a building permit.
31
   The front yard setback was supposed to be 30 feet. The county acknowledged that several property owners had
violated that standard, and that the average front yard in the area was 26 feet.
32
   Kartchner is thus based more on the laches doctrine (i.e., failure to enforce similar violations), rather than zoning
estoppel. The particular facts of Kartchner also supported the conclusion, because of the inequity involved.

Advisory Opinion – Checketts/Providence City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 28, 2011 – 11 of 17 pages
A few years later, the court considered two cases involving construction in Utah County. The
Checketts cited to the first, Utah County v. Young, 615 P.2d 1265 (Utah 1980). In that case, the
property owner obtained a building permit to construct a barn in an agricultural area.33 He intended
to use the barn for a commercial auction business, which was prohibited under the county zoning
ordinances. The building was designed with an auction block, bleachers, public restrooms, and
commercial-type wiring. Id., 615 P.2d at 1265-66. After construction was completed, the county
denied the owner’s application for a business license, because the area was not zoned for
commercial activities.

On appeal, the owner argued that the county was estopped from enforcing its zoning and licensing
ordinances. He claimed that the county was aware that he intended to operate commercial business
in the barn, and that by approving the building permit, he was induced to believe that the county
approved the commercial use, and so he proceeded with construction. The court rejected his
argument, because there was little evidence that the county had misled or induced him to invest in
the construction.34 The court also held that the owner had a duty to investigate the county’s
ordinances, and that he could not claim ignorance of the restrictions. The court expounded on the
type of reliance necessary to claim zoning estoppel:

           The action upon which the developer claims reliance must be of a clear, definite
           and affirmative nature. If the claim be based on an omission of the local zoning
           authority, omission means a negligent or culpable omission where the party failing
           to act was under a duty to do so. Silence or inaction will not operate to work an
           estoppel. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, the landowner has a duty to inquire
           and confer with the local zoning authority regarding uses of the property that would
           be permitted.

Id., 615 P.2d at 1267-68.35 The property owner could not prove that he had relied upon an act or
omission of the county, so his argument that he was entitled to a business license under a theory
of zoning estoppel failed.

About one year after the Young decision, the court issued another zoning estoppel decision, Utah
County v. Baxter, 635 P.2d 61 (Utah 1981). In Baxter, the property in question had two structures,
a restaurant and a small home. Both structures had been built many years earlier, but both were
prohibited under the zoning ordinances in place at the time.36 In 1978, the restaurant burned down.
The county allowed the building to be rebuilt, even though it was a noncomplying structure. The
property owner and a partner reconstructed and reopened the restaurant. In the meantime, the
property owner also applied for a permit to remodel the home, which was granted by the county.
The owner and her partner had a falling out over the restaurant, so she remodeled the home to

33
   The area was zoned for agricultural uses only. There was nothing prohibiting construction of a barn on the property,
but the proposed business use was prohibited. See Young, 615 P.2d at 1265-66.
34
   The court specifically noted that the structure was permissible, it was only the commercial use that was prohibited.
Id., 615 P.2d at 1267.
35
   See also Stucker v. Summit County, 870 P.2d 283, 290 (Utah Ct. App. 1994) (Opinion of local government official
or employee insufficient to constitute an “act” of the government entity.)
36
    Both structures were considered nonconforming or noncomplying, and the restaurant in particular was a
nonconforming use. Baxter, 635 P.2d at 62-63.

Advisory Opinion – Checketts/Providence City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 28, 2011 – 12 of 17 pages
serve as a restaurant and tavern, using the permit granted by the county.37 The county later denied
a business license to operate a restaurant or tavern, although it accepted an application and fee for
a beer license. For a short period, the property owner sold beer in the remodeled home.38 The
property owner appealed the denial of the business license.

On appeal, the property owner argued that the county should be estopped from enforcing its zoning
and licensing ordinances because she claimed that she told the county that she planned to use the
home for a commercial business. In addition, the county had issued a beer license, albeit
mistakenly. Id., 635 P.2d at 65. The court rejected this estoppel argument, holding that there was
no evidence that the owner had been induced or misled by any actions by the county. “[T]o
successfully state a defense of equitable estoppel in a zoning case, exceptional circumstances must
be present such as the intentional discriminatory application of the ordinance.” Id.

The three cases just discussed provide invaluable guidance for the situation faced by the Checketts
and Providence City. The Checketts have not shown the type of extraordinary circumstances
necessary to invoke zoning estoppel. Like the property owner in Young, the Checketts obtained a
permit to construct an addition to a building. The zoning ordinances allowed the addition, and its
construction is not necessarily at issue. However, the permit did not approve any business
activities in the building, and the Checketts cannot argue that the City should have been aware of
their intent to use the addition for commercial purposes.39 The Young and Baxter decisions lead to
the conclusion that the Checketts cannot claim reliance on the City’s approval of the 2005 building
permit that induced or misled them into believing that the business activity would be allowed.40

        B.       The City is Not Estopped From Enforcing its Licensing and Zoning Ordinances by the
                 Business Licenses Issued to the Checketts.

The business licenses issued to the Checketts also do not operate to estop enforcement of the City’s
ordinances. There is no question that the City issued business licenses to “Custom Countertops”
from 2003 through 2008. The 2003 and 2004 license applications list the Checketts home (on Lot
1) as the business address, and they both list assembly or manufacture of solid countertops as the
business activity.41 From 2005 through 2008, the business licenses were automatically renewed
upon payment of the business license fee.42

These approvals, however, are not acts or omissions which justify good faith reliance by the
Checketts sufficient to estop the City from enforcing its zoning and licensing ordinances. At its

37
   The remodeling plans showed a kitchen, living room, bedrooms, and closets. The decision states that the permit
identified the use as a single family residence. Id., 635 P.2d at 63.
38
   The county revoked the beer permit, and refunded the license fee. Id., 635 P.2d at 63.
39
   Like the property owner in Young, the Checketts were obligated to research the City’s zoning ordinances for
themselves.
40
   Unlike the property owner in Kartchner, the Checketts cannot claim that the City ignored similar situations on other
properties.
41
   The 2004 license application described the business as: “Receives orders by fax or phone for countertops.
Assembles, delivers and installs tops on site in homes mostly in the Cache Valley area.” The 2005 application included
this description: “Mfg [manufacture or manufacturing] and install solid surface counter tops.”
42
   See PROVIDENCE CITY CODE, § 3-1-8(A): “Business licenses will automatically be renewed upon receipt of the
renewal fee and proof of a valid professional license, if required.”

Advisory Opinion – Checketts/Providence City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 28, 2011 – 13 of 17 pages
core, the estoppel doctrine grants rights to a property owner based on tacit or implied approval of
a particular use, coupled with detrimental reliance on that approval. It follows that the
governmental entity must have some awareness or knowledge of the use in order to warrant
reliance on an act or omission implying approval.43 Automatic renewal of a business license is not
sufficient awareness or knowledge to justify reliance by a property owner.

           It would be unreasonable to conclude that a clerk or a ministerial officer having no
           authority to do so, could bind [a local government] to a variation of a zoning
           ordinance duly passed, to which everyone has notice by its passage and publication,
           because a ministerial employee erred in characterizing the type of property.

Alta v. Ben Hame Corp., 836 P.2d 797, 803 (Utah Ct. App. 1992) (quoting Morrison v. Horne, 363
P.2d 1113, 1114 (Utah 1961)).

In Alta v. Ben Hame, the Utah Court of Appeals rejected a property owner’s estoppel argument
based on business licenses which had been granted. The property owner had leased a home for
short term rentals for some time, even though such rentals were prohibited by the town’s zoning
ordinances. For three years, the town granted the owner a business license for a “lodging facility,”
before the error was discovered. The court of appeals held that the licenses erroneously issued by
the town’s clerk did not justify reliance sufficient to estop enforcement of the town’s ordinance.
Id. The court also noted that “failure to enforce zoning for a time does not forfeit the power to
enforce.” Id., See also Kartchner, 552 P.2d at 138.

Like the business owner in Alta v. Ben Hame, the Checketts were granted business licenses that
the City now says they should not have received. Each year, the license was automatically
renewed, with little or no investigation into the nature or scale of the business. 44 As the Court of
Appeals explained in Alta v. Ben Hame, the City has not forfeited the right to enforce its zoning or
licensing ordinances because it mistakenly issued business licenses. To conclude, the Checketts
cannot estop the City because of the building permits or the business licenses.

IV.     The City’s Regulation of the Checketts’ Property Does Not Constitute a Taking.

The City’s regulation of the Checketts’ property and business activity do not constitute a taking,
because reasonable regulation of property use and economic activities is permissible. Both the
Federal and Utah Constitutions provide that private property shall not “be taken for public use,
without just compensation.” U.S. CONST. amend. V.45 The legal doctrine of a property takings
includes regulation that is “so onerous that its effect is tantamount to a direct appropriation or
ouster—and that such ‘regulatory takings’ may be compensable . . ..” Lingle v. Chevron U.S.A.

43
   See e.g., Baxter, 635 P.2d at 65 (Estoppel may be invoked in exceptional circumstances).
44
   It is significant that the Checketts’s business activity in 2003, when they first obtained a business license, was
substantially different from the activities from 2005 through 2010. In 2003, the Checketts stated that the countertops
were assembled at the homes where they were installed. Beginning in 2005, however, cutting and shaping granite
slabs was performed on Lot 5. This is a substantial intensification of business activity that was not anticipated in the
2003 license application.
45
   See also Utah Const., art I, § 22: “Private property shall not be taken or damaged for public use without just
compensation.”

Advisory Opinion – Checketts/Providence City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 28, 2011 – 14 of 17 pages
Inc., 544 U.S.528, 537 (2005).46 However, it is difficult to determine when a regulation is that
onerous. “In Justice Holmes’ storied but cryptic formulation, ‘while property may be regulated to
a certain extent, if regulation goes too far it will be recognized as a taking.’ The rub, of course,
has been—and remains—how to discern how far is ‘too far.’” Id., 544 U.S. at 537-38 (quoting
Pennsylvania Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U.S. 393, 415 (1922)).

A set formula for analyzing regulatory takings has not been created, except in limited
circumstances.47 In the absence of a set formula, takings jurisprudence “aims to identify regulatory
actions that are functionally equivalent to the classic taking in which government directly
appropriates private property or ousts the owner from his domain.” Lingle, 544 U.S. at 539.48 The
Utah Supreme Court has held that property may be regulated, even if the regulation impinges on
an individual’s right to enjoy and use property.

           [T]he exercise of proper police [i.e., health and safety] regulations may to some
           extent prevent enjoyment of individual rights in property or cause inconvenience
           or loss to the owner, [but that] does not necessarily render the police law
           unconstitutional, for the reason that such laws are not considered as appropriating
           private property for a public use, but simply as regulating its use . . ..

Colman, 795 P.2d 627-28 (quoting Bountiful City v. DeLuca, 292 P. at 199-200). Or, stated more
directly by the Utah Supreme Court: “[A] landowner cannot complain because he is
inconvenienced in the use of his property, where such inconvenience arises out of the proper
enforcement of the police power to protect the public health, and where such enforcement does
not amount to a taking or destruction of his property.” Colman, 795 P.2d at 628 (quoting Salt Lake
City v. Young, 145 P. 1047, 1051 (Utah 1915)).

The guidance provided by both state and federal cases mandates a very high standard that must be
met before a regulation may require compensation as a taking. Thus, it does not appear that the
City’s regulation of the Checketts’ property and business is the functional equivalent of a direct
appropriation of the property. The City is asserting its right to regulate uses on property to promote
the health, safety, and welfare of the public. The City’s zoning and licensing regulations may limit
the Checketts’ use of their property, but that limitation is not the functional equivalent of an
appropriation. Even with the City’s regulation, the property could be put to any number of uses,
including business activities.49


46
   See also Colman v .Utah State Land Board, 795 P.2d 622, 626-27 (Utah 1990) (Government may regulate property,
but regulation may rise to the level of a taking); Bountiful City v. DeLuca, 292 P. 194, 201 (Utah 1930).
47
   A regulation that requires an owner to suffer permanent occupation of property is a compensable taking. See Loretto
v. Manhattan CATV Corp., 458 U.S. 419 (1982). Complete deprivation of all economically beneficial use is also a
compensable taking. See Lucas v. South Carolina Coastal Comm’n, 505 U.S. 1003 (1992). Permanently damaging
private property may also be a taking. See Hamblin v. City of Clearfield, 795 P.2d 1133, 1136 (Utah 1990); Sanguinetti
v. United States, 264 U.S. 146 (1924).
48
   See also Colman, 795 P.2d at 627 (“Only when governmental action rises to the level of a taking or damage under
article I, section 22 [of the Utah Constitution] is the [government] required to pay compensation.”)
49
   The Checketts argue that the City’s regulation deprives them of all economically beneficial use of their property,
and that the City’s actions are “worse than the Lucas case.” See Lucas, 505 U.S. 1003 (regulation which destroys all
economically beneficial use constitutes a taking). Other than this assertion, however, the Checketts have provided no

Advisory Opinion – Checketts/Providence City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 28, 2011 – 15 of 17 pages
“Government hardly could go on if to some extent values incident to property could not be
diminished without paying for every such change in the general law.” Pennsylvania Coal, 260
U.S. at 413. In other words, property uses and economic activities are subject to reasonable
regulation, and such regulation does not constitute a taking of private property. The City has
reasonable regulations of land use and business activity, intended to promote the health and welfare
of the public. Although those regulations limit, to an extent, the uses and activities on the
Checketts’ property, those limits are not a taking of any property rights. In conclusion, therefore,
the Checketts have simply not shown that the City’s regulation constitutes a compensable taking.

                                                   Conclusion
Because the City's ordinances allow light manufacturing in residential zones, the countertop
business may be approved as a conditional use home business. The City may determine that the
business is light manufacutring, and that the joinder of the two lots satisfies the requirement that a
home business be conducted on the same parcel as the residence.

The business cannot qualify for nonconforming use status, because it was not allowed in residential
zones to begin with. Even if licensing ordinances change, if a use was not allowed, it cannot claim
nonconforming use status. The use may now be approved as a conditional use, and be a valid
home business.

A valid building permit does not justify reliance estopping the City from prohibiting a particular
use. Estoppel only arises when a property owner can claim reliance on an act implying that a use
would be approved. The City is also not estopped from enforcing its ordinances due to business
licenses issued in error.

Finally, the City's enforcement of its zoning and licensing ordinances does not constitute a taking
of private property, because the regulation is not the functional equivalent of a physical
appropriation of the property. The City may enforce its reasonable regulations without implicating
the Takings Clause. The property owner has not shown a complete loss of economic value, and
thus cannot claim a taking under the Lucas decision.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




objective evidence that their property would have no economically beneficial value due to the City’s regulation. It
seems very unlikely that their property’s value would be completely devastated simply because the City imposed some
regulation on a certain type of business activity. Even if no business activity is allowed, the property still has value
as a residential lot. Therefore, the Checketts cannot sustain a claim for the type of “total taking” envisioned by Lucas.

Advisory Opinion – Checketts/Providence City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 28, 2011 – 16 of 17 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not constitute
legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of
Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may not
reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
