                     Advisory Opinion #23
            Parties: Christopher Ames & Ames Group, LLC and City of West Jordan
                                        Issued: October 23, 2007

                                          TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      E: Entitlement to Application Approval (Vesting)
                      K: Compliance with Mandatory Land Use Ordinances
                      R(ii): Other Topics (Subdivision Plat Approval)
                      R(iii): Other Topics (Waiver of Conditions)

Applicant did not obtain approval from the culinary water authority as required for
the preliminary approval of a subdivision. Failure to obtain such approval renders
the final plat incomplete, and recording is invalid.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                                      State of Utah
                                      Department of Commerce
  JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
                                      OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor



                                                                   Advisory Opinion


            Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                 Christopher Ames and Ames Group, LLC
                                                                           by J. Thomas Bowen, Attorney at Law

            Local Government Entity:                                       West Jordan City

            Applicant for the Land Use Approval:                           Ames Group, LLC

            Project:                                                       Subdivision at 6790 South 1300 West

            Date of this Advisory Opinion:                                 October 23, 2007

            Opinion Prepared by:                                           Brent N. Bateman

                                                                             Issue

            Is the City of West Jordan obligated to accept and approve the Applicant’s subdivision located at
            6790 South 1300 West, West Jordan, Utah where the subdivision application was filed and
            prosecuted while the subdivision property was within the boundaries of Taylorsville City, but
            final signatures and recordation of the plat occurred while the property was within the boundaries
            of West Jordan City?

                                                         Summary of Advisory Opinion

            The Applicant has not completed entitlement of the subdivision because the Applicant has failed
            to satisfy the express requirement that the City of West Jordan approve the subdivision before
            recording. Therefore, the City of West Jordan is not obligated to accept and honor the recorded
            subdivision plat. It is not necessary to determine whether the signatures of the Taylorsville
            Mayor and Attorney were ministerial acts or were invalid and ineffective due to lack of
            jurisdiction.

                                                                           Review

            A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
            decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-
            205. The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
            remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or
            other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such


160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

The request for an advisory opinion in this matter was received from J. Thomas Bowen, Attorney
for the Applicant, on August 31, 2007. A letter with the request attached was sent by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to Melanie Briggs, West Jordan City Recorder, at 8000 South
Redwood Road, West Jordan, UT 84088. Ms. Briggs is the individual whose name is listed as
the designated agent on the records of the Division of for the receipt of notice under the Utah
Governmental Immunity Act. A return receipt was received indicating that Ms. Briggs’ office
received the request. Darien Alcorn, Deputy West Jordan City Attorney, responded to the request.

The parties did not appoint a neutral to write the opinion, so this office has prepared it. On
several occasions prior to the preparation of this opinion, Brent N. Bateman of this office
conversed and/or traded emails with J. Thomas Bowen, Attorney for the Applicant and Darien
Alcorn, Deputy West Jordan City Attorney.

                                             Evidence

The following documents with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory opinion were
reviewed prior to its completion:

   1.      Request for an Advisory Opinion filed August 31, 2007 with the Office of the
           Property Rights Ombudsman by J. Thomas Bowen, Attorney at Law for the Ames
           Group, LLC.
   2.      Letter dated August 31, 2007 to Brent N. Bateman of the Office of the Property
           Rights Ombudsman from J. Thomas Bowen.
   3.      Letter dated September 27, 2007 to Brent Bateman of the Office of the Property
           Rights Ombudsman from Darien Alcorn.
   4.      Minutes of the February 1, 2007 meeting of the Taylorsville City Council.
   5.      Minutes of the December 12, 2006 meeting of the Taylorsville Planning Commission.
   6.      Various Taylorsville City Ordinances, including but not limited to Ordinance No.
           12.08.010, located at http://www.sterlingcodifiers.com/UT/Taylorsville/index.htm.
   7.      Letter dated January 11, 2007 to Chris Ames of the Ames Group from Michael D
           Malloy, Taylorsville City Community Development Director.
   8.      Email letter dated April 19, 2007 to Craig@pgay-architects.com from Paul Coates,
           West Jordan City Office of Development Assistance Manager.
   9.      Email letter dated June 29, 2007 to Mark McGrath from Chris J. Gilbert, West Jordan
           City Associate Planner.
   10.     Letter dated April 30, 2007 to Salt Lake Valley Health Department from Nathan
           Nelson, West Jordan City Engineer.
   11.     Letter dated July 19, 2007 to Mark McGrath from Tom Burdett, West Jordan City
           Director of Community Development.



Advisory Opinion – Ames Group, LLC / West Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 23, 2007 – page 2 of 10 pages
   Other documents were submitted by the parties but were not deemed relevant to this opinion
   and therefore not reviewed in connection with its preparation.

                                        Assumed Facts

   1.      The boundary adjustment between Taylorsville City and West Jordan City dated May
           23, 2007 is validly enacted and took effect July 1, 2007.

   2.      The property included in the subdivision application is entirely within the boundary
           adjustment area.

   3.      Agents of the Ames Group, LLC submitted a valid subdivision application to
           Taylorsville City in 2006, at which time the property seeking to be subdivided was
           within the municipal boundaries of Taylorsville City.

   4.      On December 12, 2006, Taylorsville City planning commission granted preliminary
           approval of the subdivision subject to twelve conditions.

   5.      On February 21, 2007, the Taylorsville City Council approved and granted an
           exception to the Roadway Development Standards in the Taylorsville City Code to
           the Subdivision.

   6.      On June 20, 2007, the Applicant signed the Final Plat with appropriate
           acknowledgements and authority and submitted the final plat to the City for
           signatures.

   7.      On June 21, 2007, the Taylorsville City Engineer signed the Final Plat with
           appropriate acknowledgements and authority.

   8.      On June 25, 2007, the Taylorsville Planning Commission Chair signed the Final Plat
           with appropriate acknowledgements and authority.

   9.      On June 25, 2007, the Taylorsville Planning Commission Chair signed the Final Plat
           with appropriate acknowledgements and authority.

   10.     On June 28, 2007, the Taylorsville City Attorney reviewed the Final Plat and declined
           to sign.

   11.     On June 29, 2007, the appropriate utility companies signed the Final Plat with
           appropriate acknowledgements and authority.

   12.     On July 3, 2007, the Taylorsville Mayor, Attorney, and City Clerk all signed the Final
           Plat with appropriate acknowledgements.




Advisory Opinion – Ames Group, LLC / West Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 23, 2007 – page 3 of 10 pages
   13.       On July 10, 2007, the Applicant recorded the plat with the Salt Lake County
             Recorder.

                                                   Background

Sometime in 2006, the Ames Group, LLC (“Applicant”) applied to create a small subdivision
within the boundaries of Taylorsville City. While the subdivision application was pending,
Taylorsville City and West Jordan City entered into a boundary adjustment in accordance with
UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-2-419. This boundary adjustment had the effect of disconnecting the
subdivision property, along with other properties, from Taylorsville City and annexing them into
West Jordan City. Despite the fact that the subdivision property was soon to come under West
Jordan City jurisdiction, the Applicant and Taylorsville City proceeded with the subdivision
application. This and other circumstances present a very unique situation; some of the required
signatures were placed on the plat prior to the effective date of the boundary adjustment, but
some necessary signatures by Taylorsville City officials were not obtained until after the property
was officially part of the City of West Jordan. The question presented by the parties, therefore, is
whether the applicant obtained full and irrevocable entitlement to the subdivision from
Taylorsville City.

The Applicant contends that the subdivision application process was complete, and full and final
approval received, from Taylorsville City prior to the boundary adjustment. Applicant further
argues that the signatures on the plat of the Mayor, City Attorney, and City Clerk of Taylorsville,
obtained after the boundary adjustment effective date, were merely ministerial acts and do not
invalidate the approval received prior to the boundary adjustment. Applicant therefore contends
that West Jordan must honor the approval and allow development of the subdivision. The City of
West Jordan contends that the Taylorsville City officials who signed the plat after the boundary
adjustment did not have jurisdiction over the property, and therefore did not have authority to
sign or approve the plat. Accordingly, West Jordan contends that the subdivision plat is not
validly approved or executed. The primary question presented for this Advisory Opinion
concerns whether the signatures of the Taylorsville City officials were ministerial acts or whether
they were required approvals given without proper authority. It is unnecessary to decide this
question because this Opinion concludes that the Applicant has not fulfilled the requirements for
full entitlement.

                                                     Analysis

The Applicant received preliminary approval of the subdivision from the Taylorsville Planning
Commission on December 12, 2006. According to the official minutes of that Planning
Commission meeting, and according to the letter dated January 11, 2007 to the Applicant from
Michael D Malloy, Taylorsville City Community Development Director, preliminary approval
was granted subject to twelve conditions:

         1) Under the authority of the Planning Commission, staff shall administrate final review of the
         subdivision plat. For clarification, that final approval only has to come back to the Commission if



Advisory Opinion – Ames Group, LLC / West Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 23, 2007 – page 4 of 10 pages
        problems relative to the subdivision cannot be resolved between staff and the developer –
        particularly the engineering and drainage issues along the south property line as raised by the
        adjacent property owners.
        2) Applicant shall pay all required fees prior to final approval of the subdivision plat including
        impact fees and recordation fee.
        3) Application must receive approval from all applicable agencies (i.e., City Engineer, Unified Fire
        Authority, West Jordan City, etc.) prior to recordation.
        4) Applicant shall provide for technical review civil engineering plans with adjacent property lines
        and setback measurements from property lines to existing structures on adjoining properties.
        5) Applicant shall design and submit an engineered storm drainage master plan that is acceptable
        to the City Engineer.
        6) Developer shall be responsible for the installation of all public improvements including the
        planting of 2 inch caliper (minimum) park strip trees. Park strip tree species shall be approved by
        staff. Trees shall be planted on 25 foot centers. Spacing may be adjusted due to species selection
        or conflicts with public improvements such as meters, hydrants, street lights, or drive approaches
        but may not be reduced in number.
        7) Applicant shall provide property addresses for each parcel within the plat.
        8) Applicant shall contact Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office and Assessor’s Office and to verify
        record-ability of the subdivision plat (including proposed subdivision name and addressing) prior
        to final subdivision plat to be recorded.
        9) Preliminary subdivision approval is contingent upon City Council approval of an exception to
        the City’s Highway Ordinance to allow development of a 25-foot wide private road without park
        strip and sidewalk.
        10) That the length of the driveway be moved to the south to accommodate an appropriate radius
        at the intersection at 1300 West to provide for street improvements.
        11) That at least a 5’ wide sidewalk be installed along that driveway from the western end all the
        way to 1300 West for pedestrian access.
        12) That perimeter vinyl fencing be installed at a minimum height of 6’ as indicated by the
        developer.

Notable is condition #3:

        3) Application must receive approval from all applicable agencies (i.e., City
        Engineer, Unified Fire Authority, West Jordan City, etc.) prior to recordation.

According to Condition #3, the Applicant must obtain the approval of West Jordan City prior to
recordation. The requirement does not state why West Jordan must approve the Application, or
what type of review West Jordan is to provide. 1 But the obligation to obtain the approval of
West Jordan is unequivocal.

West Jordan City indicates that it did not provide its approval of the application. The materials
provided to this Office by West Jordan City indicate that the Applicant first requested West
Jordan’s approval approximately one week before the boundary adjustment became effective. In
an email letter to Mark McGrath from Chris J. Gilbert, West Jordan City Associate Planner dated

1 The fact that West Jordan is listed in this condition as an applicable agency, along with the City Engineer

and the Unified Fire Authority, indicates that Taylorsville contemplated that West Jordan would provide
services to the subdivision. Other statements by the parties and documents provided to this Office
indicate that the parties consider West Jordan to be the culinary water authority for the property.


Advisory Opinion – Ames Group, LLC / West Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 23, 2007 – page 5 of 10 pages
June 29, 2007, two days prior to the effective date of the boundary adjustment, West Jordan City
states that it has not had the opportunity to review the final plans and plat, and that it had not
seen the final plat until it “was brought in last week by the developer to request a will-serve
letter.” West Jordan specifically denies approving the plat. This office has not received any
evidence to indicate that West Jordan approved the plat. If Applicant did not obtain the approval
of West Jordan, then the Applicant did not fulfill this express condition imposed by the
Taylorsville Planning Commission.

The signatures on the plat of the Taylorsville Mayor, City Attorney, City Clerk, or Planning
Commission Chair, given despite the Applicant’s failure to obtain the approval of West Jordan,
do not compel a contrary conclusion. There is no indication that the City of Taylorsville
expressly waived the Planning Commission’s condition. The signatures on the plat also do not
amount to an implied waiver. Condition #3 states that West Jordan’s approval must be received
prior to recordation of the plat. The condition does not make West Jordan’s approval necessary
prior to signing the final plat. Whether this was intentional or unintentional, 2 it leaves the
window open for Taylorsville Officials to sign the plat prior to receiving the approval of West
Jordan, with knowledge that the applicant had yet to fulfill condition #3. These signatures
therefore cannot be considered a waiver of the condition.

Additionally, even if Taylorsville had waived condition #3, the subdivision application has not
met the requirements for full entitlement. The Applicant has also failed to complete the
requirements imposed by Utah law and the Taylorsville City Ordinances. Taylorsville City
Ordinances give a general overview of that City’s subdivision approval process:

        12.08.010: PROCEDURE GENERALLY:

        Before subdividing any tract or lot or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots, a subdivider shall:
        A. Prior to or coincident with the submission of the preliminary plat, file with the planning
        commission a completed subdivision information form or forms to be furnished by the planning
        commission;
        B. File with the planning commission for examination and subsequent action prints of the
        preliminary plat prepared in conformance with the provisions of this title. . . . ;
        C. Within one year after receiving approval of the preliminary plat by the planning commission,
        submit the original and one copy of the final plat to the planning commission for final approval or
        disapproval, as the case may be. . . . ;
        D. Present, after receiving final approval by the planning commission, the original of the final plat
        to the community development director for survey and engineering review by the engineering
        contractor;
        E. Ensure the water supply and sewage disposal shall have been approved by the health
        department, culinary water authority and sanitary sewer authority;
        F. Ensure a current commitment for title insurance from an acceptable title company and bond or
        other acceptable security shall be submitted to the city attorney for approval;
        G. Ensure the community development department will submit the final plat to the mayor for
        action after approval from the city attorney; and


2 “When examining the plain language [of an ordinance], we must assume that each term included in the

ordinance was used advisedly.” Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98, ¶30.


Advisory Opinion – Ames Group, LLC / West Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 23, 2007 – page 6 of 10 pages
       H. Ensure after obtaining final approval from the mayor the final plat bearing all official approvals
       as required in this title must be recorded with the county recorder at the expense of the subdivider.
       . . . . (Ord. 06-01, 2-15-2006)

Requirement E mandates that subdivision applicants “Ensure the water supply and sewage
disposal shall have been approved by the health department, culinary water authority and
sanitary sewer authority.”

In addition, Utah statutory law sets forth when an applicant is entitled to approval of a
subdivision application:

       “Subject to Subsections (3), (4), and (5), if the plat conforms to the municipality's
       ordinances and this part and has been approved by the culinary water authority
       and the sanitary sewer authority, the municipality shall approve the plat.” UTAH
       CODE ANN. § 10-9a-603 (2)(a) (emphasis added).

This ordinance and statute both impose a prerequisite to subdivision approval that the culinary
water authority approve the subdivision. The documents submitted by the parties indicate that all
parties — the Applicant, Taylorsville City, and West Jordan City — considered West Jordan City
to be the culinary water authority for the project. As stated above, West Jordan did not approve
the project. In the Letter dated April 30, 2007 to Salt Lake Valley Health Department from
Nathan Nelson, West Jordan City Engineer, West Jordan states that water is available to the
subdivision, but service to the subdivision is “subject to” the subdivision becoming part of West
Jordan and the “utility systems being constructed in accordance with City standards and
approved plans” (emphasis added). This indicates that West Jordan will only serve the project if
West Jordan has approved the plans for the project. This letter is, at best, an indication of water
availability and the conditions under which West Jordan will serve the subdivision. This letter
cannot be considered a will-serve letter or an express approval of the subdivision. 3 In addition,
according to the June 29, 2007 email letter discussed above, as late as one week prior to the
effective date of the boundary adjustment, it appears that the Applicant believed that a will-serve
commitment had not been received, because he approached West Jordan City seeking one.
Therefore, the subdivision does not have a valid will-serve commitment, and lacks the approval
of the culinary water authority, in violation of Taylorsville City Ordinances and Utah law.

Taylorsville cannot expressly or impliedly waive these conditions by signing the plat in the
absence of these approvals. Where Utah statute imposes a condition upon development approval,
the City cannot release the Applicant from the statutory requirement by imposing a less
restrictive condition. UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-104. Taylorsville also cannot waive the
mandatory conditions in its own ordinances. UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(2). The Applicant is
only entitled to approval of a subdivision if the applicant receives express approval from the
culinary water authority.
3 The Taylorsville City Ordinance requires that approval by the culinary water authority be express,

rather than implied or conditional, by stating that the Applicant must “ensure” that the culinary water
authority approve the plans.


Advisory Opinion – Ames Group, LLC / West Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 23, 2007 – page 7 of 10 pages
Applicant’s failure to obtain such approval means that the applicant is not entitled to subdivision
approval. UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-603 (2)(a). According to Utah statute, the failure to obtain
these approvals before recording renders the plat void:

       A person may not submit a subdivision plat to the county recorder's office for
       recording unless . . . the plat has been approved by: . . .(ii) other officers that the
       municipality designates in its ordinance; and (iii) all approvals are entered in
       writing on the plat by the designated officers. . . . (2) A subdivision plat recorded
       without the signatures required under this section is void.”

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-604. Taylorsville City Ordinances, along with Utah State law
and the conditions imposed for approval by the Taylorsville Planning Commission,
require that the Applicant obtain the approval of West Jordan City. The Applicant did not
do so before recording the plat. Therefore, the plat is void. West Jordan is not obligated to
accept and honor the subdivision plat.

                                             Conclusion

Utah law and Taylorsville Ordinance require that an applicant for subdivision approval receive
the approval of the culinary water authority. In addition, an express condition to the development
imposed by the Taylorsville Planning Commission is that the application be approved by West
Jordan City prior to recording. Nothing received by this office indicates that West Jordan City
provided either express or implied approval of the subdivision. Instead, West Jordan City
expressly states that it has not approved the plat. Likewise, nothing received by this office
indicates that any culinary water authority has approved the subdivision. The signatures of the
Taylorsville City officials on the plat cannot be considered a waiver of that condition. Moreover,
Taylorsville City Officials cannot waive or bypass a prerequisite imposed by Utah statute.
Because the Applicant failed to meet those conditions and requirements, the subdivision approval
is not final. The Applicant is not fully entitled to develop the subdivision, and West Jordan is not
obligated to accept the subdivision plat.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in UTAH CODE ANN., § 13-42-205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at


Advisory Opinion – Ames Group, LLC / West Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 23, 2007 – page 8 of 10 pages
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.




Advisory Opinion – Ames Group, LLC / West Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 23, 2007 – page 9 of 10 pages
                                  MAILING CERTIFICATE

U.C.A. §13-43-206(10)(b) requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to the government
entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with U.C.A. §63-30d-401 (Notices Filed
Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

               Melanie Briggs
               West Jordan City Recorder
               8000 S. Redwood Road
               West Jordan, UT 84088

On this 24 Day of October, 2007, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.



                              ______________________________________________________
                              Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Ames Group, LLC / West Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 23, 2007 – page 10 of 10 pages
