                       Advisory Opinion #61
                               Parties: Steven C. Pace and City of Holladay
                                         Issued: January 21, 2009

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES

                        Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures
                                  Interpretation of Ordinances

Although the doctrine of lot merger is unknown in Utah, a handful of other states have upheld
similar ordinances. An ordinance requiring merger of noncomplying parcels can reasonably be
seen to promote the health, safety, and welfare of the City. Since local governments are entitled
to deference in their choice of zoning ordinances, it cannot be said that the City’s ordinance is
invalid.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                                      State of Utah
                                      Department of Commerce
  JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
                                      OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN

     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor



                                                             ADVISORY OPINION


            Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                 Steven C. Pace

            Local Government Entity:                                       City of Holladay

            Applicant for the Land Use Approval:                           Steven C. Pace

            Date of this Advisory Opinion:                                 January 21, 2009

            Opinion Authored By:                                           Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney, Office of the
                                                                           Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                                           Issues
            May the City require the owner of two or more adjacent lots under common ownership, where
            those lots were legally created but do not meet the current zoning requirements for lot area, to
            merge the lots in order to meet the current zoning requirements?

                                                      Summary of Advisory Opinion
            The City presently permits nonconforming lots. Where two or more adjacent nonconforming lots
            are under common ownership, the City requires that those lots be merged in order to receive a
            building permit. The City is entitled to great deference in enacting its land use ordinances.
            Although there are some questions regarding the legality of Holladay’s lot merger ordinance, those
            questions do not rise to the point where the ordinance can be found to be arbitrary, capricious, or
            illegal. Accordingly, Holladay’s lot merger ordinance is valid.

                                                                          Review
            A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final decision
            by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. The




160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative remedies,
of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or other specific
land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such a review can
help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and understand the
relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this opinion, may have
some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from Stephen C. Pace on November 6, 2008.
A letter with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return receipt requested, to Stephanie
Carlson, City Recorder for the City of Holladay, at 4580 South 2300 East, Holladay, Utah 84117.
The return receipt was signed and was received on November 7, 2008, indicating that the City had
received it. The City did not submit a written response to the Request. The OPRO had a telephonic
conversation with H. Craig Hall, attorney for the City of Holladay, on December 17, 2008. Mr.
Hall indicated that he would contact representatives for the City and determine whether to submit
a response. The OPRO had an additional telephonic conversation with Mr. Hall on January 5, 2009,
wherein Mr. Hall provided brief general information regarding the zoning history of the Holladay
area. No further response was received from the City.

                                               Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion received November 6, 2008 by the Office of the
                 Property Rights Ombudsman by Steven Pace, including exhibits.

                                             Background
Steven C. Pace is personal representative of the estate of his mother, Maxine C. Pace. Since
approximately 1972, Ms. Pace was the owner of two adjacent but legally separate lots in Holladay
City. There appears to be no dispute that the lots were legally created and existing as separate tax
entities. It appears that one lot contained a single family dwelling occupied by Ms. Pace until her
death. The other lot appears to be vacant.

In 1999, the City of Holladay was incorporated, and a land use code was adopted. The Holladay
City land use code presently includes the following ordinance:

           13.76.050: LOTS IN SEPARATE OWNERSHIP:

           Any lot legally held in separate ownership at the time of adoption of this code,
           which lot is below the requirements for lot area, lot width or frontage for the zone
           in which it is located and was legally created under the provisions of a previous
           zoning ordinance, shall be classified as a legal nonconforming lot under this code.



Advisory Opinion ― Pace/City of Holladay
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 21, 2009 ― Page 2 of 8
               A. In any zone, when a lot lacks sufficient area to meet the minimum required
           by this code and there is adjacent property under the same ownership, the two (2)
           parcels shall be combined. If the combined parcels do not meet the minimum
           requirement and there is sufficient area upon which to construct a residence
           reasonably comparable to those in the vicinity with required setbacks, the lot may
           be determined to be legal nonconforming and a single-family dwelling shall be
           permitted if such lot is in a residential zone.

               B. If there is not sufficient area for a buildable area, comparable to the other
           residences in the area, or of at least thirty feet by fifty feet (30' x 50'), a building
           permit shall not be issued. (Ord. 07-01, 1-9-2007)

Accordingly, in a letter sent by Paul Allred, Holladay City Community Development Director, to
Mr. Pace dated October 13, 2008, the City indicated that a building permit was not available on
the second lot, and that the lots would need to be combined as they are both owned by the same
entity. Apparently, due to an amendment to the Ordinance on January 9, 2007, it is no longer
possible to maintain the nonconforming lot status by causing diverse ownership of the two lots.

Mr. Pace has requested an Advisory Opinion from the OPRO to determine whether Holladay City
can require the merger of two adjacent legal nonconforming lots under common ownership.

                                                    Analysis
           A.          The Doctrine of Lot Merger

Section 13.76.050 of the Holladay City land use code establishes legal nonconforming lots within
the City. According to its language, any lot held at the time of adoption of the code that does not
comply with width or frontage requirements in the zone would be a legal nonconforming lot
permitting a single family dwelling to be built. That Ordinance further requires that when such a
lot is adjacent to another lot under the same ownership “the two (2) parcels shall be combined”
(emphasis added). Accordingly, in Holladay City, a property owner may build upon a legal
nonconforming lot unless that owner also owns an adjacent lot. The lots must then be combined.

At question is the land use doctrine of lot merger. The doctrine of lot merger arises when the owner
of a substandard lot owns other, adjoining property, and the owner is required to merge those lots
and treat them as a single lot for zoning purposes. See 7-42 ZONING AND LAND USE CONTROLS §
42.03.

Most U.S. courts that have reviewed a local lot merger ordinance have upheld it. See, e.g., Remes
v. Montgomery County, 874 A.2d 470 (Md., 2005); Robertson v. York, 553 A.2d 1259 (Maine,
1989); Giovannucci v. Board of Appeals, 344 N.E.2d 913 (Mass. App. Ct. 1976); McKendall v.
Barrington, 571 A.2d 565 (R.I., 1990). In each of these cases, the reviewing court considered local
lot merger ordinances very similar to Holladay’s. No cases could be found overturning a local lot
merger ordinance similar to Holladay’s.


Advisory Opinion ― Pace/City of Holladay
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 21, 2009 ― Page 3 of 8
Also noteworthy, however, the cases dealing with lot merger ordinances originate almost
exclusively from a few New England states. Lot merger does not appear to be a commonly litigated
subject any other region of the country. Lot merger has not been expressly established in Utah.1
Nevertheless, the fact that several cases exist upholding lot merger ordinances similar to
Holladay’s, and that no cases have been found overthrowing such an ordinance, inclines in favor
of the ordinance.

           B.          The Wood Case.

Conversely, the most on-point Utah case that could be located,2 Wood v. North Salt Lake, 390 P.2d
858 (1964), reaches a different result. In Wood, the Utah Supreme Court did not examine the lot
merger doctrine specifically, but nevertheless rejected the compulsory combination of non-
conforming lots based solely upon common ownership. In Wood, a plat was recorded creating
several 6000 square foot lots. Sometime after the lots were created, the City adopted an ordinance
establishing 7000 square feet as the minimum lot size for a building permit. While the City did not
have a compulsory lot merger ordinance as does Holladay, the City argued to the Supreme Court
that the Plaintiffs owned more than one adjacent lot, and that the lots could easily be combined in
order to comply with the ordinance. The Court rejected this approach. The Court stated that
requiring one lot owner to comply with the ordinance simply because that owner owns an adjacent
lot, where another owner would be able to build upon her lot because she did not own an adjacent
lot “would be objectionable under simple principles touching discrimination.” Id. at 859:

           It loses sight of the fact that one owning two adjoining lots would be subject to the
           zoning ordinance, while a neighbor owning but one lot presumably would be either
           inoculated against the ordinance -- or . . . virtually would be owner of a useless lot
           for lack of elbow room to expand the area.

Id. Accordingly, the Wood court rejected the effect that the lot owner faces in Holladay City, where
owners have conforming lots unless they are unlucky enough to own an adjacent lot. Holladay
City has adopted an ordinance recognizing non-conforming lots. The only reason why the property
owner in this case does not have two non-conforming lots is because the lots are contiguous and
under the same ownership. The Utah Supreme Court has rejected this result. This inclines against
Holladay’s ordinance.

           C.          The City is Entitled to Deference for its Land Use Ordinances


1
  Lot merger does not appear to be the widespread practice in Utah. No state statute or court case can be found adopting
or sanctioning lot merger in Utah. Moreover, an informal, and certainly not comprehensive, review of the ordinances
of various Cities and Counties in Utah revealed no adopted ordinance like that of Holladay City’s. Several Utah cities
and counties have adopted ordinances recognizing nonconforming lots, but none could be found requiring merger of
adjacent nonconforming lots as does Holladay’s. As stated, this review was not comprehensive, and such an ordinance
may exist elsewhere in Utah.
2
  Because neither party submitted any legal argument or authority to the OPRO in support of their position, the OPRO
was obligated to rely on its own research in producing a “statement of facts and law supporting the Opinion’s
conclusions” as required by UTAH CODE §13-43-206(9).
Advisory Opinion ― Pace/City of Holladay
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 21, 2009 ― Page 4 of 8
All of the above information should be considered in light of well-established Utah law regarding
the passage of land use ordinances generally. Local municipalities have tremendous latitude in
adopting land use ordinances. UTAH CODE ANN. 10-9a-801(3) states that, when a court reviews a
local land use ordinance:

           The courts shall:
           (i) presume that a decision, ordinance, or regulation made under the authority of
           this chapter is valid; and
           (ii) determine only whether or not the decision, ordinance, or regulation is arbitrary,
           capricious, or illegal.
           (b) A decision, ordinance, or regulation involving the exercise of legislative
           discretion is valid if the decision, ordinance, or regulation is reasonably debatable
           and not illegal.

Accordingly, a land use ordinance is assumed to be valid if it is reasonably debatable to be in the
public welfare and not illegal. Springville Citizens v. Springville, 1999 UT 25 further illuminates:

           A municipality's land use decisions are entitled to a great deal of deference. See
           Xanthos v. Board of Adjustment, 685 P.2d 1032, 1034 (Utah 1984); Triangle Oil,
           Inc. v. North Salt Lake Corp., 609 P.2d 1338, 1339-40 (Utah 1980); Cottonwood
           Heights Citizens Ass'n v. Board of Comm'rs, 593 P.2d 138, 140 (Utah 1979); Naylor
           v. Salt Lake City Corp., 17 Utah 2d 300, 410 P.2d 764 (Utah 1966). Therefore, “the
           courts generally will not so interfere with the actions of a city council unless its
           action is outside of its authority or is so wholly discordant to reason and justice that
           its action must be deemed capricious and arbitrary and thus in violation of the
           complainant's rights.” Triangle Oil, 609 P.2d at 1340.

The presumption that local land use ordinances are valid unless they are arbitrary, capricious or
illegal, and the standard that an ordinance is not arbitrary or capricious if it is reasonably debatable
that it advances the general welfare, is nearly insurmountable. The case of Harmon City, Inc. v.
Draper City, 2000 UT App 31, ¶18 provides a illustrative quote: “Indeed, we have found no Utah
case, nor a case from any other jurisdiction, in which a zoning classification was reversed on
grounds that it was arbitrary and capricious.” Id.

The Holladay City lot merger ordinance is a land use ordinance, and entitled to legislative
deference. Reasonable minds could differ regarding whether eliminating nonconforming lots
through merger advances the general welfare. Therefore, the Holladay lot merger ordinance meets
that standard and must be upheld.

The Wood case, discussed above, is the wrench in the works. It can be argued that Wood forbids
compelling a property owner to merge its legal nonconforming lots in order to bring them into
conformity simply because that lot owner is also the owner of an adjoining lot. This certainly raises
a question of whether the Holladay lot merger ordinance is legal. Nevertheless, Wood can be
distinguished because that case was not examining a lot merger ordinance. The result may have
been different due to the level of deference to which ordinances are subject. Accordingly, although
Advisory Opinion ― Pace/City of Holladay
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 21, 2009 ― Page 5 of 8
it raises questions regarding the legality of Holladay’s ordinance, Wood does not raise a question
sufficient to overcome the high level of deference.

                                           Conclusion
Holladay’s lot merger ordinance must be upheld. The Wood case, and the fact that the lot merger
doctrine has not been adopted in Utah, certainly calls the legality of the ordinance into question.
However, several courts throughout the country have examined lot merger ordinances and upheld
them. Therefore, the Holladay lot merger ordinance is not clearly illegal. Furthermore, it is
reasonably debatable that requiring owners of adjoining nonconforming lots to merge the lots to
bring them into conformity advances the general welfare. Therefore, under the well-established
standard in Utah for reviewing local land use ordinances, Holladay’s ordinance is valid.



Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion ― Pace/City of Holladay
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 21, 2009 ― Page 6 of 8
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated § 13-43-205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based
on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.




Advisory Opinion ― Pace/City of Holladay
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 21, 2009 ― Page 7 of 8
