                       Advisory Opinion #9
                              Parties: James Bean and Salt Lake City
                                       Issued: December 16, 2006

                                         TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                       E: Entitlement to Application Approval (Vesting)
                       R(v): Other Topics (Interpretation of Ordinances)

The City’s required setbacks were defined precisely, and the City had no
discretion to approve a structure that did not comply with the setbacks. The
Property Owner could rely upon the representations made by the City’s inspector
that the foundations were properly located and complied with the required
setbacks. Zoning estoppel should therefore prohibit the City from claiming that the
foundation violated the required setback. Certain types of architectural features
could encroach into a setback, but a building’s entire story did not qualify under
the City’s ordinances




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                                      State of Utah
                                      Department of Commerce
  JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
                                      OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor



                                                                      Advisory Opinion


                  Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                James Bean

                  Local Government Entity:                                      Salt Lake City

                  Applicant for the Land Use Approval:                          James Bean

                  Project:                                                      Single Family Home
                                                                                518 Koneta Court

                  Date of this Advisory Opinion:                                December 16, 2006

                  Issue: Can Salt Lake City require Bean to alter a residence under construction to
                  comply with minimum side and rear yard setback requirements provided for in the
                  land use ordinances?

                  Review:

                  The request for an advisory opinion in this matter was received by the Office of the Property
                  Rights Ombudsman on September 6, 2006. A letter with the request attached was sent by
                  certified mail, return receipt requested, to Salt Lake City on September 6, 2006. The letter
                  was addressed to Kendrick Cowley, City Recorder, at the address shown on the
                  Governmental Immunity Act Database at the Utah State Department of Commerce, Division
                  of Corporations and Commercial Code as required by statute.

                  After the City officials received the letter I discussed with Lynn Pace, Deputy City Attorney
                  for Salt Lake City the issue about who would prepare this advisory opinion and was advised
                  that the City did not object to the opinion being prepared by the Office of the Property Rights
                  Ombudsman. As lead attorney in that office I have proceeded to prepare the opinion with
                  that understanding.

                  During the preparation of this opinion, I discussed the matter with Jim Bean, the applicant,
                  on a number of occasions. I also exchanged a number of email communications and had a
                  series of phone calls with Lynn Pace; Doug Wheelright, Deputy Planning Director for Salt
                  Lake City; and Orion Goff, Building Services and Business Licensing Director for Salt Lake
                  City. I attended the administrative hearing held on Thursday, October 4, 2006 and the
                  planning commission meeting where the Bean subdivision proposal was heard on November
                  29, 2006. I listened to and made note of all public comments received on those occasions.

160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
                                                                                        -2-


Many documents were reviewed prior to completing this advisory opinion, including the
following which are relevant to the issue raised here:

   1.     Building permit drawings stamped by Salt Lake City Corporation Building
          Services on 7/26/02 and shown as related to permit number 175125.
   2.     Salt Lake City Corporation Building Permit Inspection Listing dated 8/13/2003
          for permit ID 175125. Shows a series of inspections with notes by the inspector
          for each inspection beginning 7/29/02 and ending 3/28/2003.
   3.     Inspection report dated July 30, 2002 by Richard Nielson, Salt Lake City
          Inspector.
   4.     Inspection report dated August 6, 2002 by Richard Nielson, Salt Lake City
          Inspector.
   5.     Letter dated October 21, 2002 from Harvey Boyd, Deputy Director, Building
          Services and Licensing, Salt Lake City, to Jim Bean. By this letter Jim Bean was
          ordered to stop work until utility and design issues were resolved.
   6.     Letter dated November 22, 2005 from Douglas Wheelwright, Deputy Planning
          Director for Salt Lake City, to Jim Bean.
   7.     Survey of Bean property dated 7-26-06 by Bush and Gudgell, Inc.
   8.     Email memo from Alexander Ikefuna, Director of Planning, Salt Lake City, to
          Doug Wheelwright, Deputy Director, dated August 7, 2006.
   9.     Email memo from Orion Goff to Alexander Ikefuna dated August 29, 2006.
   10.    Memo dated September 13, 2006, from Orion Goff to Louis Zunguze, Director of
          Community Development, Salt Lake City, and Brent Wilde, Deputy Director.
   11.    Letter dated October 4, 2006 from Orion Goff, Building Services and Business
          Licensing Director, Salt Lake City, to James Bean.
   12.    Letter dated October 4, 2006 from A. Louis Zunguze, Director of Community
          Development, Salt Lake City, to James Bean.
   13.    Survey of Bean property dated 11-1-06 by Bush and Gudgell, Inc.
   14.    Letter dated December 1, 2006 from Larry Butcher, Development Review
          Administrator, Salt Lake City Building Services, to Jim Bean.
   15.    Board of Adjustment Staff Report, undated, prepared for the December 18, 2006
          hearing of the Salt Lake City Board of Adjustment and delivered to me via email
          transmittal on the afternoon of December 14, 2006. No exhibits were attached to
          this electronic transmittal.
   16.    Salt Lake City Ordinances Section 21A.24.100(E) SR-3 Special Development
          Pattern Residential District: Minimum Yard Requirements.
   17.    Salt Lake City Ordinances Section 21A.36.020 Conformance with Lot and Bulk
          Controls and Table 21A.36.020B Obstructions in Required Yards.

Assumed facts:

   1.     James Bean is the owner of the properties located at 518 and 524 South Koneta
          Court, Salt Lake City. There is a residence at number 524, but prior to Bean’s
          obtaining ownership the lot at 518 was vacant.
                                                                                      -3-

2.    In the summer of 2002, Bean submitted plans for a building permit to build a
      residence at 518 South Koneta Court, which was approved as permit ID number
      175125 on July 26, 2002 by Salt Lake City Building Services.

3.    On July 30, 2002, Richard Nielson, acting as a Salt Lake City inspector, signed an
      inspection report on permit no. 175125 and noted: “24” x 10” continuous
      footings North, South and West wall elevations. Okay to pour.”

4.    On August 5, 2002, Nielson issued a stop work order with the note: “Stop work
      order issued. Violations. Need Engineering given to Larry Lincoln. I want
      survey done prior to pouring foundation. Prior violations were not corrected.
      Will need to install an enclosed concrete electrode No. 4 copper wire 24’ in
      foundation for grounding. Do not pour foundation.”

5.    On August 6, 2002 at 9:30 a.m. Nielson again noted in an inspection report “It is
      necessary to have a survey done prior to pouring foundation.”

6.    On August 6, 2002, Nielson again signed an inspection report and noted:
      “Setbacks were checked from new survey hubs. North South and West
      foundation walls are ok to pour. Installing no. 4 grounding wire in bottom of wall
      20’ long.”

7.    During August of 2002 and part of 2003 work on the residence continued. As
      shown on the approved plans, part of the construction was to prepare a concrete
      structure at approximately ground level. A manufactured home was then placed
      above that structure as part of a second storey.

8.    After the residence was enclosed and roofed, a stop work order was issued by the
      City. One of the issues involved in the stop work order was whether Bean had the
      legal right to install water lines in the street to service the residence then under
      construction.

9.    For the next several years litigation was commenced involving Bean, the City, and
      third parties, which culminated in a resolution of the dispute that would allow
      utilities to be provided to the Bean residence.

10.   After the litigation was finished, Bean again sought to commence work on the
      residence. He was told that a previous illegal subdivision of the properties had to
      be cured by submitting a subdivision application to the City for approval.

11.   On November 22, 2005, Doug Wheelwright sent a letter to Bean outlining several
      requirements which would need to be complied with to approve the subdivision.

12.   One of the requirements in the letter was that Bean produce “a surveyed site plan
      of the two structures, accurately located upon the two lots in your subdivision
      request.”
                                                                                              -4-

   13.      A survey dated July 26, 2006 prepared by Bush and Gudgell Engineers was
            reviewed by the City to determine if Bean had met the requirement. The survey
            indicated that the new residence under construction was located 3.6 feet from the
            North property line and 14.3 feet from the West property line.

   14.      The Bean properties are located in the SR-3 Residential District under the Salt
            Lake City land use ordinances. In this zone, the setback requirements provide
            that a side yard must be a minimum of 4 feet wide and a rear yard must be at least
            15 feet wide.

   15.      On October 4, 2006, Orion Goff, Building Services and Business Licensing
            Director, Salt Lake City, sent a letter to Bean indicating that the stop work order
            on his residence would not be lifted until the setback issues were resolved. The
            letter indicated that Bean must either alter the residence, appeal the decision to the
            Salt Lake Board of Adjustment, or seek a variance.

   16.      On October 4, 2006, A. Louis Zunguze, Director of Community Development and
            Zoning Administrator, Salt Lake City, also sent a letter to Bean stating the same
            requirements for lifting the stop work order as the Goff letter. This letter was
            deemed to be a land use decision subject to appeal under the relevant city
            ordinances.

   17.      Within 30 days of the date of these letters, Bean submitted an appeal from the
            decision of the zoning administrator to the Salt Lake City Board of Adjustments,
            seeking to avoid a strict imposition of the setback standards in this instance.

   18.      On November 1, 2006, Bean submitted another survey by Bush and Gudgell,
            which indicated that the sideyard to the North of the new residence was 3.9 inches
            wide and to the West the sideyard was 14.94 feet.

   19.      In a staff report prepared for the December 18, 2006 meeting of the Salt Lake City
            Board of Adjustments, the staff notes that the second storey of the Bean residence
            extends beyond the first level wall and into the required minimum rear yard an
            additional six inches. (The staff report erroneously states that the November 1
            survey shows the rear yard as 14.3 inches. The survey instead shows a 14.94 inch
            rear yard.)

   20.      Bean, in revised construction drawings submitted to the Salt Lake City Building
            Department, indicates that the second level extends seven inches beyond the first
            level and into the rear yard.

Analysis:

In this matter, the Salt Lake City Zoning Administrator has interpreted the ordinances to
require that Bean alter the residence under construction to comply with the required
minimum setbacks. The only evidence of the extent of the encroachment that the zoning
administrator mentions in his October 4 decision is the July 26 survey by Bush and Gudgell,
                                                                                            -5-

which showed a .4 foot (4.8 inches) shortfall in the sideyard setback. A November 1 survey
shows that shortfall to be .1 foot (slightly more than 1 1/4 inch).

The rear yard setback shown on the July 26 survey was .7 feet short (just under 8 ½ inches)
which was revised in the November 1 survey as .06 feet short, or ¾ inch. There are some
differing opinions about the exact measurement as the surveyor evidently measured from the
face of the concrete foundation and not from the face of the siding placed on the walls of the
residence. In any event, it would appear that the ground level encroachment referred to in the
October 4 letter is a few inches in either direction at the most.

Since the letter was delivered, the Planning Staff at the City has identified another
encroachment created by a cantilevered second floor that extends beyond the rear wall of the
first level of the Bean residence. That extension projects further into the rear yard area than
the wall measured in the surveys and creates an encroachment issue that is not addressed in
either the 7/26/06 or the 11/01/06 survey.

The issues addressed by this advisory opinion is 1) whether either the encroachment of an
inch or a few inches of the first level foundation was properly interpreted by the zoning
administrator to constitute a violation of the land use ordinances and thus justifies
enforcement action to require that the building should be modified to cure the encroachment;
and 2) if he second storey projection constitutes a violation of the land use ordinances and
justifies the same enforcement action.

Standard of Review

Under relevant case law, the interpretation of a zoning ordinance is to be made first on the
clear and unambiguous language of the ordinance; second, on the basis that ambiguities are
to be resolved in favor of the use of land; and third, if necessary, on equitable grounds when
harsh application of the ordinance works undue hardship.

In reviewing the decision by a land use official, there is no duty of deference to the person
who first made the decision. According to relevant case law, when a challenge is made to the
interpretation of an ordinance, the body or person acting to review the original decision is to
determine what the correct interpretation of the ordinance would be. There is no requirement
that the Board give any deference to the administrator or executive official making the
determination. Brown v. Sandy City Board of Adj. 957 P.2d 207 (UT App 1998)

Clear and unambiguous language

The Salt Lake City land use ordinances are crystal clear with regard to set back issues. A
person can search the ordinances and find no room for adjustments or accommodations on
this issue, nor on many others, where specific standards are set. There do not appear to be
any ambiguities. The zoning administrator’s decision is therefore valid if the ordinance alone
is the standard by which it is reviewed and there is no evidence of a tradition and practice of
avoiding the harsh terms of the ordinance by routinely interpreting its provisions loosely and
generously. Read strictly, however, that decision by the zoning administrator cannot be
                                                                                               -6-

overturned based on some discretion provided in the ordinance because there is none
provided. Neither the first or second rules outlined in the preceding paragraph for reviewing
land use decisions appear to be relevant in this case.

Unless the present situation justifies a decision by the Court to find some equitable remedy to
resolve the matter, the decision by the zoning administrator must therefore be upheld. If an
equitable remedy is available, it would most likely involve what the case law refers to as
“zoning estoppel”.

Zoning Estoppel

The basic elements of “zoning estoppel” are:

       “Estoppel is an equitable defense that requires proof of three elements: (i) a
       statement, admission, act, or failure to act by one party inconsistent with a claim later
       asserted; (ii) reasonable action or inaction by the other party taken or not taken on the
       basis of the first party's statement, admission, act, or failure to act; and (iii) injury to
       the second party that would result from allowing the first party to contradict or
       repudiate such statement, admission, act, or failure to act.”

CECO Corp. v. Concrete Specialists, Inc., 772 P.2d 967, 969-70 (Utah 1989). The Utah
courts have also added a fourth element:

       “While common law generally requires a balancing of the parties' equitable interests
       before awarding permanent injunctive relief, an exception is made when a defendant's
       encroachment is willful and intentional. . . . We have already determined that the
       same exception applies to willful and intentional zoning violations. . . This precedent
       is based on the doctrine that balancing the equities "'is reserved for the innocent
       defendant, who proceeds without knowledge or warning that he is encroaching upon
       another's property rights.'"

Johnson v. Hermes Associates 2005 UT 82 P31. (citations omitted) Clearly the courts have
held that an individual should not be allowed to knowingly and intentionally ignore the law
and then claim an estoppel defense to strict enforcement:

       “This court has set forth the circumstances in which a court may, at its discretion,
       apply a balancing of equities test instead of issuing a mandatory injunction. Under
       this test, the district court may in its discretion elect not to grant an injunction only
       "where an encroachment does not irreparably injure the plaintiff; was innocently
       made; the cost of removal would be disproportionate and oppressive compared to the
       benefits derived from it, and plaintiff can be compensated by damages." . . .
       Furthermore, "the benefit of the doctrine of balancing the equities . . . is reserved for
       the innocent defendant, who proceeds without knowledge or warning that he is
       encroaching upon another's property rights." If the defendant is not innocent,
       however, "equity may require [the property's] restoration, without regard for the
       relative inconveniences or hardships which may result from its removal."
                                                                                              -7-


Carrier v. Lundquist 2001 UT 105 P31. (Citation omitted). Based on these precedents, I
must determine if there are equities that should be weighed in resolving the interpretation and
nonconforming use issues involved in this matter and also come to some conclusions about
the facts of the case.

Courts may use the doctrine of estoppel in rare cases to counter overly strict application of
zoning laws:

        “Estoppel, waiver or laches ordinarily do not constitute a defense to a suit for
        injunctive relief against alleged violations of the zoning laws, unless the
        circumstances are exceptional. Zoning ordinances are governmental acts which rest
        upon the police power, and as to violations thereof any inducements, reliances,
        negligence of enforcement, or like factors are merely aggravations of the violation
        rather than excuses or justifications therefor.

        “ . . . the court, in the exercise of its equitable powers, may deny injunctive relief
        against the violation of a zoning ordinance. An injunction will be denied where the
        granting of it would be inconsistent with basic principles of justice and equity, even
        though it is within the scope of relief available in equity courts to enjoin violations of
        zoning laws. . . .

        “When a municipal corporation seeks vindication of public rights by injunction, in a
        court of equity, it is on the same footing as any private person or corporation. An
        application for injunctive relief is addressed to the conscience of the chancellor, who
        may in the exercise of sound discretion either grant or deny the prayer as the
        circumstances require. The court will consider the equities between the parties and
        under some circumstances deny equitable relief, because a great injury will be
        suffered by defendant because of a mandatory injunction, with little or no benefit to
        complainant. . .”

Salt Lake County v. Kartchner 552 P.2d 136 (Utah 1976). In the current matter, it could be
argued that the principles of zoning estoppel should be applied to both the foundation
encroachment issues and the second level extension issues. I will discuss the foundation
issues first.

Foundation encroachment issues:

   1.      Did Salt Lake City act to approve the structure as it was constructed?

The documents appear to clearly prove that the Richard Nielson, a Salt Lake City Building
Inspector with years of experience, checked and approved the side and rear yard setbacks of
the Bean residence before the foundations were poured. The inspection reports indicate:
                                                                                             -8-

On July 30, 2002, Richard Nielson, acting as a Salt Lake City inspector, signed an inspection
report on permit no. 175125 and noted: “24” x 10” continuous footings North, South and
West wall elevations. Okay to pour.”

On August 5, 2002, Nielson issued a stop work order with the note: “Stop work order issued.
Violations. Need Engineering given to Larry Lincoln. I want survey done prior to pouring
foundation. Prior violations were not corrected. Will need to install an enclosed concrete
electrode No. 4 copper wire 24’ in foundation for grounding. Do not pour foundation.

On August 6, 2002 at 9:30 a.m. Nielson again noted in an inspection report “It is necessary to
have a survey done prior to pouring foundation.”

On August 6, 2002, Nielson, again signed an inspection report and noted: “Setbacks were
checked from new survey hubs. North South and West foundation walls are ok to pour. . .”

   2.      Did the City later assert a claim that would be contrary to that affirmative
           act?

Clearly the October 4 letters from Goff and Zunguze reverse the position taken by the
building inspector that the construction complied with the setback requirements of the zoning
ordinance and impose a strict and severe remedy.

   3.      Did Bean rely on the City official’s representation that the building was
           properly situated on the site?

Bean has asserted without contradiction that he relied on the building inspector’s conclusion
that the foundations were properly placed before instructing the contractor to place the
concrete for the foundation walls.

   4.      Was Bean’s reliance reasonable?

Based on the qualifications of the inspector, the use of a certified engineer to identify the lot
lines, Bean’s status as a layman in such matters, and the normal reliance placed on
professionals in such contexts, it would seem unreasonable for Bean to not rely on the joint
actions of the surveyor and building inspector. Indeed it is hard to imagine what else a
property owner would do to establish the accuracy of the contractor’s measurements once a
surveyor and building official had certified the forms before authorizing the placement of
concrete.

   5.      Does the violation of the ordinance work great injury to the City?

In his memo of August 29, 2006 to Alexander Ikefuna, Orion Goff states that “Building
Services is willing to accept the minor encroachments into the setbacks and release the hold
on the permit . . . if the Planning Division is willing to approve the application for the
subdivision . . .”
                                                                                          -9-

In an email dated August 7, 2006, Ikefuna, who is the Director of Planning for the City says
“The structure is already built; my question is what has been the practice in the past in
addressing this type of issue? Six inches difference is not a lot to warrant having Mr. Bean
go through all these processes . . .”

These City department heads did not deem five or six inch encroachments to be significant in
August of 2006. By November, the newly fine-tuned surveys show that the actual
encroachments may be two inches or less. Since the actual encroachments of the foundation
walls have been found to be perhaps half as significant as was assumed in August, it would
be no surprise that these department heads would find even less reason for the City to enforce
the setbacks strictly.

If there were some compelling reason for the City to impose the setback standards strictly,
surely these department heads would not have seemed so willing to forget this issue in
August.

If the ordinances are strictly enforced against Bean, he would have to partially demolish his
almost completed home. If he did so, he could rebuild it again a few inches from its present
location, much as the approved building permit shows it. What significant benefit would be
provided to the City from having the same structure reconstructed two or three inches from
its present location?

   6.      Does the enforcement of the ordinance strictly work a great hardship on the
           property owner?

If the strict setback standards are enforced against Bean, he must remove his almost-
completed residence and will incur significant cost to do so. The cost of demolition and
reconstruction might approach all of the cost invested so far in the project, which has now
taken more than four years.

This would seem to be a profound and obvious hardship that may justify some equitable
relief. It may be claimed that he could recover the cost of his alterations from his surveying
firm. This may be, but the time, hassle, and cost required to force his engineer to solve the
problem would work a significant hardship even if he were to succeed. There is also no
evidence that this matter arose out of anything other than a modest error by the surveyor or
the building official. Surely such an innocent mistake of such slight proportion would justify
no such severe sanction imposed on anyone.

   7.      Did the property owner act innocently?

Bean has provided credible commentary that he acted without any knowledge of the errors
made in setting the foundation for his residence. He argues convincingly that he would not
have had any motivation to knowingly move the residence a few inches off its proposed
location as there would be no advantage in doing so. I have heard no evidence that Bean
attempted to ignorantly set the foundations in a cavalier or negligent manner, but rather the
documents provided by the City show that he followed the instructions of the building
                                                                                           - 10 -

official, hired a surveyor to string lines along the property lines, and did not pour foundation
walls until Nielson had inspected and approved the setbacks specifically.

In the process of preparing this opinion, I specifically asked for any information that City
officials have that would impugn Bean’s claims that he acted innocently in the placing of the
foundation walls. None has been provided or alleged to exist.

Conclusion – Foundation Encroachments

While the slight errors made here may have been those of the building official or the
surveyor, it would seem counterproductive to continue to grind on these issues further no
matter who was at fault. To uphold the decision of the zoning administrator would be
inconsistent with basic principles of justice and equity.

The facts and equities of this matter entitle Bean to equitable relief. Although the ground
level of the residence he is building encroaches an inch or three into the minimum side yard
and rear yard setback, basic principles of justice and equity bar the City from enforcing these
strict standards when Bean worked in good faith to do all the building official required him to
do to verify the legal setbacks. The Bean residence is therefore legally placed on the lot as
far as the foundation walls are concerned.

Since the structure as erected is not in strict conformance with the zoning regulations, it is a
non-conforming structure under the common law. The right to continue the use of a non-
conforming structure is a protected property right that cannot be unreasonably interfered with
without the payment of just compensation. See Rock Manor Trust v. State Road Commn.
550 P.2d 205 (Utah 1976).

Second Level Encroachments Issue:

There was no specific certification by the building department with regard to the overhang of
the second storey into the rear yard setback area. This condition is not protected by the
principles of zoning estoppel. There was no specific approval granted to this violation of the
setback requirements by the City before the encroachment was made and thus it was not
created in reliance on some affirmative act by an agent of the City. It does not enjoy the
same protected status that the location of the foundation walls enjoys.

In the Salt Lake City Land Use ordinances, at table 21A.36.020B, obstructions in required
yards are spelled out specifically. There are several architectural features of buildings
described there which are permitted to extend into minimum yard distances. Several would
appear to be more intrusive than the 6 or 7 inch projection of Beam’s second storey. But that
is not the issue in this matter. The ordinance is to be enforced as written unless the elements
of zoning estoppel are present.

There have been building inspections made and approvals given after the second level
encroachment existed, but not with the specificity and prior affirmations that were present in
the case of the foundation encroachment.
                                                                                           - 11 -


Conclusion: Second Level Encroachments Issue:

Where this condition exists prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, the City would
not be acting illegally to require its removal. On the other hand, if the Board of Adjustment
or Zoning Administrator found that allowing the present configuration of the building would
be consistent with prior interpretations of the ordinances and otherwise not be adverse to the
City’s interest, then it might be allowed it to remain.




                                             Craig M. Call, Lead Attorney
                                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, 13-42-205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of
the State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived
at based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter,
and may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter
where the facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have
changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his
understanding of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter.
Anyone with an interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the
advice of his or her own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive
statement of how to protect or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not
binding on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the
subject of an advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause
of action is litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with
the advisory opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may
collect reasonable attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that
cause of action from the date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the
court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the
opinions, writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights
Ombudsman are not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims
court, a judicial review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as
explained above.
                                                                                     - 12 -

                              MAILING CERTIFICATE



Utah Code Annotated Section 13-43-206(10)(b) requires delivery of the attached
advisory opinion to the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that
complies with U.C.A. Section 63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental
Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the
agent designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the
governmental entity in the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the
Utah State Department of Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code,
and to the address shown is as designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as
follows:

       Kendrick Cowley, City Recorder
       Salt Lake City Corporation
       451 South State Street, Room 415
       Salt Lake City, UT 84111

On this eighteenth day of December, 2006, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal
Service, postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the
person shown above.



                     _______________________________________________________
                     Craig M. Call, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
