                     Advisory Opinion #91
 Parties: Norman Schmehl for Susan Schmehl Family Protection Trust & Jill Olsen Taylor Trust
               and City of North Ogden and Weber-Box Elder Conservancy District
                                         Issued: October 6, 2010

                                        TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      D: Exactions on Development

The requirement that the developer install a connecting pipe to a secondary water
system is an exaction subject to rough proportionality analysis. Both the local
government and the local district operating the water system are responsible,
since both are imposing the exaction, and since both are public bodies. The local
district has discretion to determine how and where its secondary water system is
operated, and thus has broad latitude to determine where connections to the
system are made.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                        State of Utah
                        Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                        OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   GREG BELL
Lieutenant Governor



                                        ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:              Norman Schmehl

      Local Government Entity:                    North Ogden City
                                                  Weber-Box Elder Conservancy District

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:        Susan Schmehl Family ProtectionTrust
                                                  Jill Olsen Taylor Trust

      Project:                                    Residential Subdivision

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:              October 6, 2010

      Opinion Authored By:                        Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney, Office of the Property
                                                  Rights Ombudsman


                                                  Issues
      Is a local government requirement that a developer connect to a secondary water system operated
      by a local district an exaction?

                                   Summary of Advisory Opinion
      The requirement that the developer connect to a secondary water system is an exaction subject to
      analysis required by the federal and state constitutions. Both the local government and the local
      district operating the water system are responsible for the exaction, since both are imposing the
      exaction, and since both are public bodies. Like all exactions, the requirement must satisfy the
      “rough proportionality” analysis. The local district has discretion to determine how and where
      its secondary water system is operated, and thus has broad latitude to determine where
      connections to the system are made.
                                                                     Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-
205. The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or
other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such
a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

A request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Norman and Susan Schmehl on June 30,
2010. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Lynn Muirbrook, Mayor of North
Ogden City, and to Terel Grimley, General Manager of the Weber-Box Elder Conservation
District. Certified mail receipts, indicating that both the City and the District received copies,
were delivered to the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman on July 8, 2010. Both the City
and the District submitted responses, and the Schmehls have replied to those responses. Jill
Taylor, who has an interest in the property being developed, also submitted information.

                                                                   Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion from Norman and Susan Schmehl, filed June 30,
                 2010 with the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman.
     2.          Response from North Ogden City, submitted by Dave Carlson, City Attorney,
                 received on July 20, 2010.
     3.          Response from the Weber-Box Elder Conservation District, submitted by Terel
                 Grimley, received on July 22, 2010.
     4.          Reply filed by the Schmehls, received on August 3, 2010.
     5.          Reply filed North Ogden, received on August 11, 2010.
     6.          Reply filed by the Schmehls, received on August 26, 2010.
     7.          Information submitted by Jill Taylor, received on August 26, 2010.
     8.          Reply filed by the District, received on August 30, 2010.
     9.          Reply filed by the Schmehls, received on September 27, 2010.
     10.         Information submitted by Jill Taylor, received September 28, 2010.




Advisory Opinion – Schmehl/North Ogden City/Weber-Box Elder Conservation District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 6, 2010 – page 2 of 13 pages
                                                                Background
The Susan Schmehl Family Protection Trust and the Jill Olsen Taylor Trust own property located
at 3625 North 500 East in North Ogden City. 1 In the Summer of 2005, the Schmehls began the
process of subdividing and developing the property into “Valley View Estates,” with eight
residential lots. Five of the lots are located on a cul-de-sac, and the remaining three lots are on
500 East. The Schmehls installed improvements for the subdivision, including the roads. In
March of 2007, the City approved the subdivision. Except for secondary water, the
improvements for Valley View Estates were completed by September of 2008. 2

The City requires new development to connect to a secondary water system, which provides
water for landscaping and “outside” activities. See NORTH OGDEN CITY CODE, §§ 9-2-2; 12-6-
7. 3 The City provides culinary water for household use and fire suppression, but not secondary
water for irrigation or landscaping. The Weber-Box Elder Conservation District (“District”)
provides secondary water for the area. 4 Although secondary water is required, the District was
not directly involved in the preliminary discussions leading up to approval of the Valley View
Estates subdivision.

In August of 2005, the District provided a letter to the Schmehls stating that it would provide
service to the proposed subdivision. 5 That letter states that the subdivision could be served with
secondary water “if main lines are run to the property.” However, part of the property is
apparently too high for normal service, but the District noted “[t]hat portion of the proposed
subdivision could be delivered secondary water but would have to be pumped at the Pine View
connection.” 6 The Schmehls state that they relied upon this letter when it applied for approval of
the subdivision. 7

Irrigation water for the area comes from the Pine View Reservoir, located a short distance from
the Valley View Estates subdivision. According to the materials submitted for this Opinion,
water service is delivered from the reservoir through underground pipes. A six inch line runs
down Lakeview Drive and then beneath 3550 North. Four inch diameter branch lines serving
residential neighborhoods are connected along 3550 North. A branch line runs beneath 475 East,
1
  The Schmehl and Taylor Trusts are evidently co-owners and co-developers of the property. This Opinion will refer
to both owners as the Schmehls.
2
  The City required improvements that are typical for a new subdivision, including roads, storm water drainage and
retention, etc.
3
  The City Code states that the secondary water requirement is necessary to conserve water and decrease demand on
the culinary water system. See NORTH OGDEN CITY CODE, § 9-2-1.
4
  The Weber-Box Elder Conservation District is independent of the City, and is a special service district established
to provide irrigation water. The District is also referred to as “Pine View Water,” but this Opinion will refer to it
simply as “the District.”
5
  The Schmehls state that this letter was submitted to the City on August 31, 2005, as part of the original application
for Valley View Estates.
6
  The District explained that it could not deliver water to elevations higher than 5,018 feet above sea level. In order
for the new subdivision to have adequate pressure, the water would need to be pumped. The Valley View Estates
Subdivision is no higher than 5,008 feet. The Schmehls were prepared to install a pump for the secondary water.
7
  The City disputes that the Schmehls submitted the August 2005 letter from the District, but the Schmehls state that
it was included in their original application. Jill Taylor also confirms that the letter was received from the District.


Advisory Opinion – Schmehl/North Ogden City/Weber-Box Elder Conservation District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 6, 2010 – page 3 of 13 pages
and terminates near the southern boundary of the Valley View Estates subdivision. 8 The
Schmehls planned to tie into this branch and extend water service to the eight lots in the new
subdivision, possibly using a pump to augment the water pressure. The plans submitted for the
subdivision indicate a connection to the secondary water line located beneath 475 East.

The City reviewed the application during the Fall of 2006. Although the District was apparently
informed of the application, and invited to participate, there are no records of comments from the
District while the application was being reviewed. 9 A memorandum from November, 2006
indicates concerns about whether the District had committed to provide secondary water. 10 In
December, the District was contacted by Judco Engineering, the firm designing the subdivision
for the Schemhls. That firm inquired about the connections, and evidently received information
that was incorporated into the subdivision plans. 11

The City states that it never received satisfactory commitment that the District would provide
secondary water to the new subdivision, and faults the Schmehls for failing to obtain that
commitment. However, both the Schmehls and the District acknowledge that the August 2005
letter was a commitment to serve the property, although they disagree over the details of how the
water service would be delivered. 12 The City must have received some sort of satisfactory
assurance that secondary water would be provided, because it approved the subdivision in March
of 2007. Upon receiving approval from the City, the Schmehls began construction of the
improvements. 13

Some time during construction, the District informed the Schmehls that connecting to the branch
line on 475 East alone was not acceptable, because there would not be enough pressure to serve
eight additional homes. Evidently, the District also felt that installing a pump at the connection
point would not work either. Instead, the District required a connection to a six inch line that



8
   475 East becomes 500 East, which runs through Valley View Estates. The culinary water line that serves the
subdivision also runs beneath this street.
9
   The City stated that the District is informed of all subdivision applications, and is invited to participate in the
review process. A memorandum, dated February 19, 2007, explained 13 items that needed to be addressed before
final approval would be granted. None of the items referred to the secondary water system. It is worth noting,
however, that the City required homes in the new subdivision to have sprinkler systems, because of concerns that the
culinary water system would not have adequate pressure for fire suppression.
10
   The memo was written by Kent L. Jones, the City Engineer.
11
   The Schmehls submitted two emails from David Judd, of Judco Engineering, reporting that Todd Richins from the
District responded after several phone calls, and that Mr. Richins provided information about “the placement of the
main and meters.” That information was incorporated into the plans. The District disputes that contact was made,
and notes that Mr. Richins is the inspector for the District, not the District’s engineer. The District also denies that it
formally reviewed and approved the plans for the subdivision.
12
   There is no dispute that the District will provide service, and that the Schmehls have sufficient water shares for the
property. The dispute centers on how that service will be delivered.
13
    The Schmehls report that the total cost of the improvements was $300,000. An estimate from February 2007
notes that the cost of the equipment needed for pressurized irrigation (i.e., secondary water) was approximately
$15,000. This estimate does not include installation of the six-inch branch line, or acquisition of an easement for
that line.


Advisory Opinion – Schmehl/North Ogden City/Weber-Box Elder Conservation District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 6, 2010 – page 4 of 13 pages
branches off from the Lakeview Drive line. 14 That line is about 600 feet from the western
boundary of the Valley View Estates property. The Schmehls would be required to extend the
new six inch line across privately-owned property, and then dedicate that new line to the
District. 15 The owner of that property, however, has refused to grant an easement for the new
line. 16

Construction of the improvements (other than the secondary water system) was completed in the
Summer of 2008. The City accepted the public improvements (except for the secondary water
system), and the Schmehls obtained a warranty bond to cover any repairs necessary for the next
12 months. The City evidently has no issues with any of the other improvements. By September
of 2009, when the warranty bond was set to expire, the City informed the Schmehls that it would
not issue building permits for the lots in the subdivision until the secondary water system was
installed. The Schmehls believed that connection to the 475 East line was sufficient, particularly
with a pump. They noted that other subdivisions directly to the east of Valley View Estates are
adequately served by four inch branch lines similar to the one beneath 475 East. The Schmehls
explained that they were not able to complete the system, because of the additional costs of
installing the six inch line, and because the neighboring property owner was uncooperative. 17
They also felt that installing a line to serve the Valley View Estates subdivision was an
impermissible exaction, because the line was larger than necessary for the subdivision, and
because it would also serve other nearby properties, but the Schmehls would bear the entire
cost. 18

The City argues that it is not responsible to approve connections to the secondary water system,
leaving that matter to the Schmehls and the District. However, since secondary water service is
required, the City will continue to bar building permits until a system is completed. The District
states that it never approved a connection to the 475 East line, and that the only way to provide
adequate service is to extend the six inch line to the Valley View Estates subdivision. The
District also points to an agreement signed by the former owners of the property being
subdivided, which states that any expansion to the distribution system is to be installed by the
property owners (at their expense) and then dedicated to the District. 19

14
   It appears that the District will allow connection to the 475 East branch, but that will not serve all of the lots. The
six inch line is necessary to provide full service. The District did not comment on why a pump would not be
acceptable.
15
   According to Jill Taylor, the District plans to connect the new six-inch line to the four-inch line beneath 475 East.
Ms. Taylor states that a six-inch to four-inch reduction connection has been installed in anticipation of the new six-
inch line.
16
   There is an existing road easement that has been used for underground utilities, but there are still questions about
whether that easement could be used for the secondary water.
17
   The Schmehls requested that either the City or the District acquire an easement across the neighboring parcel
through eminent domain, but both entities declined to exercise this power.
18
   The Schmehls estimate that as many as 50 homes could directly benefit from the 600 foot branch line they would
be required to install. (There are many undeveloped parcels surrounding the subdivision). In addition, many more
homes could indirectly benefit from the 600 foot line, if it is extended beyond the boundaries of Valley View Estates.
19
   The agreement was signed by the property’s former owners in 1979, as a condition for inclusion in the District (as
well as water service from the District). Evidently, the agreement runs with the land, and may be binding upon the
Schmehls. The entire agreement was not provided for this Opinion.


Advisory Opinion – Schmehl/North Ogden City/Weber-Box Elder Conservation District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 6, 2010 – page 5 of 13 pages
                                                                   Analysis
I.      The City May Validly Require Connection to a Secondary Water System.

     A. The City has a Legitimate Interest in the Economical and Efficient Use of Water, and may
        Require New Development to Connect to a Secondary Water System.

Since ensuring adequate and reliable water service is a legitimate government interest, the City
may require developers to install a secondary water system. Local governments have a
legitimate interest in ensuring that high quality water supplies are available to residents,
including reliable supplies for fire suppression and irrigation. See Summit Water Distribution
Company v. Mountain Regional Water Special Service District, 2005 UT App. 66, ¶¶ 11-14, 108
P.3d 119, 121-22. Municipal general plans should provide for “the efficient and economical use,
conservation, and production of . . . food and water.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-401(2)(c). In
fact, local governments must require new development to obtain approval from culinary water
suppliers. See id. §§ 10-9a-602(2)(a) (municipalities); 17-27a-602(2)(a) (counties).

Given this important public interest, it is appropriate for the City to require a separate system for
secondary water. This helps provide adequate supplies of culinary water, both for household use
and fire suppression.

     The city council has determined that heavy demand is being placed upon the culinary
     water system by use of culinary water for irrigation purposes, and that such heavy
     demand, if continued, could result in a shortage of culinary water and could result in
     inadequate water supply for fire protection in some areas.

NORTH OGDEN CITY CODE, § 9-2-1. This requirement also promotes the efficient and
economical use of water, because the secondary system can be easily controlled, if necessary, to
restrict non-essential water use.

     B. Connection to a Secondary Water System is a Valid Condition, Because it is Imposed by
        the City’s Ordinances.

The requirement that new development connect to a secondary water system is a valid condition,
because it is found in the City’s ordinances. Local governments may impose conditions on new
development, but only if those conditions are stated at the time the development application is
approved:

        A municipality may not impose on a holder of an issued land use permit or
        approved subdivision plat a requirement that is not expressed:

           (i) in the land use permit or subdivision plat, documents on which the land use
           permit or subdivision plat is based, or the written record evidencing approval of
           the land use permit or subdivision plat; or
           (ii) in [Chapter 10-9a] or the municipality’s ordinances.



Advisory Opinion – Schmehl/North Ogden City/Weber-Box Elder Conservation District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 6, 2010 – page 6 of 13 pages
UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(h). When the Schmehls applied for subdivision approval, the
City’s Code required connection to a secondary water system. It was thus validly imposed upon
the new subdivision.

II.     The Required Connection to a Secondary Water System is an Exaction, and both the
        City and the District are Responsible.

      A. The Required Connection is an Exaction

Because the Schmehls must install a new line connected to the secondary water system in order
to obtain subdivision approval and building permits, the requirement to connect to the system is
an exaction. Governmental entities may impose exactions on new development, but the exaction
must satisfy the “rough proportionality” test expressed by the U.S. and Utah Supreme Courts.
“Exactions are conditions imposed by governmental entities on developers for the issuance of a
building permit or subdivision plat approval.” B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County,
2006 UT 2, ¶ 34, 128 P.3d 1161, 1169 (“B.A.M. I”). 20 The term “exaction” includes any
condition on development, including not only dedication of property, but also payment of money,
installation of specific improvements, or other requirements imposed by a public entity. 21
Furthermore, the term “exaction” includes conditions imposed by a general legislative enactment
as well as those imposed by decisions or negotiations on specific proposals. Id., 2006 UT 2, ¶
46, 128 P.3d at 1170. Since the Schmehls must install and dedicate a water line in order to
obtain approval for a subdivision and building permits, the City and the District are requiring an
exaction, which must satisfy the “rough proportionality” test.

      B. Both the City and the District must Demonstrate that the Exaction Satisfies the “Rough
         Proportionality” Test.

The City and the District are both responsible for the exaction, because both are public entities,
and both have imposed the requirement upon the Schmehls. There is no question that the City
must show that its exactions satisfy the “rough proportionality” test. In 2005, the Utah
Legislature enacted § 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code, which authorizes cities to impose exactions
on new development, within established limits:

           (1) A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed
           in a land use application . . . if:

           (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
           exaction; and


20
   See also Salt Lake County v. Board of Education, Granite School District, 808 P.2d 1056, 1058 (Utah 1991)
(holding that “development exactions” are “contributions to a governmental entity imposed as a condition precedent
to approving the developer’s project.”)
21
   Id. “Development exactions may take the form of (1) mandatory dedications of land . . . as a condition to plat
approval, (2) fees-in-lieu of mandatory dedication, (3) water or sewage connection fees, and (4) impact fees.”
(internal quotations omitted).


Advisory Opinion – Schmehl/North Ogden City/Weber-Box Elder Conservation District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 6, 2010 – page 7 of 13 pages
           (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
           impact of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-508(1). 22 Furthermore, exactions analysis is required to implement
constitutional protections for property owners and limit governmental authority.23 Since the
City’s requirement that the Schmehls connect to a secondary water system is an exaction, it is
subject to the “rough proportionality” test.

The City is imposing an exaction, because the Schmehls must install improvements to the
secondary water system in order to obtain approval from the City for their development. 24 After
it is built, the system will be dedicated to the District, as required by the agreement explained
above. 25 But the City is the land use authority, and it has imposed the requirement. As with any
requirement imposed by the City, the City must ensure that the requirement is not
disproportionate in violation of the exaction law. There is no reason to give the City immunity
for the requirements it imposes simply because another entity dictates the requirements. The City
is requiring the Schmehls to construct and dedicate a public improvement. 26 This is an exaction.
Although the requirement is carried out by a separate entity, since the City imposes the
requirement it is responsible to ensure that the exaction satisfies constitutional scrutiny.

The District is also subject to “rough proportionality” analysis, because it is a public body which
requires exactions as a condition of development. Local Districts are public bodies, governed
generally by Title 17B of the Utah Code. The Weber-Box Elder Conservation District exercises
powers normally associated with public agencies. It may, for example, levy assessments on
private land within its boundaries, exercise eminent domain to acquire property, and may impose
impact fees. 27 In fact, local districts have long been considered “quasi-public” agencies, and the
scope of their authority is similar to that of local governments. “Being public in [their] purpose
and nature, [the] rights and duties [of local districts] are to be determined, generally speaking, by
the same considerations which determine the rights and duties inhering in what are commonly
known as municipal or public bodies.” Upper Blue Bench Irrigation District v. Continental
National Bank & Trust Company, 93 Utah 325, 330, 72 P.2d 1048, 1050 (1937). Therefore, the
District must be considered a public body subject to the same constitutional restrictions as any
governmental agency. Section 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code does not specifically mandate that
local districts conduct “rough proportionality” analysis when they impose exactions on
development. However, “rough proportionality” analysis is required of all governmental bodies

22
   There is a corresponding statute applicable to counties found at § 17-27a-507 of the Utah Code.
23
    “The ‘exactions’ theory has roots in the well-settled doctrine of ‘unconstitutional conditions,’ which sets
constitutional limits on the manner by which the government bargains away its discretionary authority.” St. John’s
River Water Mgmt. Dist. v. Koontz, 5 So.3d 8, 9 n.2 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 2009) (citations omitted).
24
   In addition, the City is withholding building permits until the secondary water system is complete.
25
   The extent of the dedication was not explained, but it is likely that the “public” portion of the system, such as the
delivery lines running to individual lots, would need to be dedicated to the District.
26
    See Salt Lake County v. Board of Education, Granite School District, 808 P.2d at 1058. The District is also
requiring that the Schmehls install a new six-inch line to the subdivision. If this line is larger than what is necessary
to serve the subdivision, or is capable of serving other properties, requiring its installation is an exaction.
27
   See UTAH CODE ANN. § 17B-1-103 (general powers of local districts); § 17B-1-111 (local districts may impose
impact fees). See generally, Title 17B (governing local districts).


Advisory Opinion – Schmehl/North Ogden City/Weber-Box Elder Conservation District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 6, 2010 – page 8 of 13 pages
to protect the constitutional rights of property owners against excessive exactions. 28 Therefore,
the District is also responsible for showing that requiring the secondary water connection
satisfies the “rough proportionality” analysis required by the U.S. and Utah Constitutions.

     C. In Order to be Valid, the Requirement Must Satisfy “Rough Proportionality” Analysis.

The Utah Supreme Court observed that the “rough proportionality” test derives from the U.S.
Supreme Court analyses in Nollan v. California Coastal Commission, 483 U.S. 825, 107 S.Ct.
3141 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374, 114 S.Ct. 2309 (1994). (See B.A.M I,
2006 UT 2, ¶ 41, 128 P.3d at 1170.) In those two landmark cases, the U.S. Supreme Court
promulgated rules for determining when an exaction may be validly imposed under the federal
constitution’s Takings Clause. 29 This has come to be known as the Nollan/Dolan “rough
proportionality” test, and that two-part analysis has been codified in § 10-9a-508.

The Utah Supreme Court further honed the “rough proportionality” analysis in B.A.M.
Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2008 UT 74, 196 P.3d 601 (“B.A.M. II”), which was a
second appeal stemming from the same development project at issue in the earlier decision.30
The decision explained that rough proportionality analysis “has two aspects: first, the exaction
and impact must be related in nature; second, they must be related in extent.” B.A.M. II, 2008
UT 74, ¶ 9, 196 P.3d at 603. The “nature” aspect focuses on the relationship between the
purported impact and proposed exaction. The court agreed that the approach should be
expressed “in terms of a solution and a problem . . .. [T]he impact is the problem, or the burden
which the community will bear because of the development. The exaction should address the
problem. If it does, then the nature component has been satisfied.” Id., 2008 UT 74, ¶ 10, 196
P.3d at 603-04.

The “extent” aspect measures the impact against the proposed exaction in terms of cost:

           The most appropriate measure is cost—specifically, the cost of the exaction and
           the impact to the developer and the municipality, respectively. The impact of the
           development can be measured as the cost to the municipality of assuaging the
           impact. Likewise, the exaction can be measured as the value of the land to be
           dedicated by the developer at the time of the exaction.



28
    Local districts are subject to the “Constitutional Takings Issues Act,” which requires that each political
subdivision in the state adopt guidelines that help identify takings or exactions, including an appeal process for
property owners. See UTAH CODE ANN. §§ 63L-4-101 to -301. This further reinforces the conclusion that the
District must abide by the “rough proportionality” test.
29
   See U.S. CONST., amend. V. (“nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.”)The
Supreme Court has interpreted the Takings Clause as limiting a government’s ability to impose conditions on
development. Furthermore, “[t]he Utah Constitution reinforces the protection of private property against
uncompensated governmental takings . . ..” B.A.M I., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 31, 128 P.3d at 1168. See also UTAH CONST. art.
I, § 22 (“Private property shall not be taken or damaged for public use without just compensation.”)
30
   The final “B.A.M.” decision was an amendment to an opinion issued a few months earlier. (See B.A.M. Dev. LLC
v. Salt Lake County, 2008 UT 45).


Advisory Opinion – Schmehl/North Ogden City/Weber-Box Elder Conservation District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 6, 2010 – page 9 of 13 pages
Id., 2008 UT 74, ¶ 11, 196 P.3d at 604. The court continued by holding that “roughly
proportional” means “roughly equivalent.” Thus, in order to be valid, the cost of an exaction
must be roughly equivalent to the cost that a governmental entity would incur to address (or
“assuage”) the impact attributable to a new development.

     D. In Order for the Secondary Water Connection Requirement to be Valid, the Private Cost
        of Compliance Must be Roughly Equivalent to the Public Expense to Address the Impact.

Both the City and the District must demonstrate that the required connection to the secondary
water system is a valid exaction. To begin with, there is an essential link between the condition
that the developer connect to the secondary water system and a legitimate interest in the public’s
health and welfare. Ensuring safe and adequate water supplies is a legitimate public interest. See
Summit Water Distribution Company v. Mountain Regional Water Special Service District, 2005
UT App. 66, ¶¶ 11-14, 108 P.3d 119, 121-22. Requiring developers to install and connect to a
secondary water system helps ensure that supplies for culinary water are sufficient, by reducing
the demand on a culinary system due to irrigation. A secondary water system also helps reduce
costs for water, because secondary water does not need to meet more stringent water quality
standards. Thus, there is an essential link between the county’s legitimate interest of ensuring a
safe and adequate water supply and the requirement that the new subdivision install connect to
the secondary water system. 31

The required connection must also satisfy the “nature” and “extent” aspects of the rough
proportionality test. The “nature” aspect is satisfied because connecting to the secondary water
system is a reasonable means to address the “problem” of providing water for irrigation and
landscaping. The Valley View Estates subdivision will create an impact, because the new homes
will require water for landscaping. Requiring a connection to the secondary water system
“solves” the problem, by providing the needed water. Based upon the information provided for
this Opinion, the nature of the exaction is roughly proportionate to the impact created. 32

Determining whether the secondary water connection requirement meets the “extent” aspect is
not possible in this Opinion, because there is not enough information about the costs associated
with the requirement. Ultimately, the question will require a comparison of the expenses
incurred by the Schmehls against the projected costs of the impacts faced by the City and the
District. As required by the Utah Supreme Court, the costs of compliance must be roughly equal


31
   Note that the first step of the evaluation under § 10-9a-508(1)(a) requires an essential link between the exaction
and a legitimate governmental interest. This first prong of the test does not require a connection between the
exaction and a need attributable to new development. As has been discussed, the “nature aspect” expressed in § 10-
9a-508(1)(b) concerns the relationship between the exaction and the need created by new development. See B.A.M.
II, 2008 UT 74, ¶ 10, 196 P.3d at 603-04.
32
   The Schmehls point out that several other nearby homes are adequately served by four-inch lines branching from
the 3550 North line, and so they believe that the line beneath 475 East could adequately serve their subdivision
(possibly with a pump). The District states that the 475 East line would not provide enough water pressure to serve
the entire subdivision, and so the new six-inch line is necessary. The necessity of the new line is a factor in whether
the required connection is roughly proportionate to the impact created. However, this Opinion cannot determine if
the District’s assertion is correct. Such a determination is a factual matter that would need to be resolved separately.


Advisory Opinion – Schmehl/North Ogden City/Weber-Box Elder Conservation District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 6, 2010 – page 10 of 13 pages
to the expense necessary to address the impact of the new subdivision. If the compliance costs
are greater than needed to address the impact, the Schmehls may be entitled to compensation. 33

The facts of this Opinion, however, merit a few observations. First, although the City and the
District are jointly responsible for the exaction, it does not necessarily follow that they equally
share responsibility. 34 Both entities are imposing the condition, and therefore both are
responsible to ensure that it is constitutionally valid. However, the impact of the new
subdivision may not be the same for the two entities, and their respective responses to the impact
may also be different. The City and the District operate independently of each other, and it
would not be fair for one to assume responsibility for compensation for an improvement that
benefits the other. The measure of each public entity’s responsibility is derived from the
respective impacts upon them. 35

Second, the Schmehls are responsible to bear the costs of compliance, but only to the extent
necessary to meet the impact of the Schmehls’ new subdivision. Any requirement that the
Schmehls oversize the line beyond the Schmehls’ needs, or bring the line to an area where it can
serve other properties, or improve the line in any respect beyond what is necessary for the
Schmehls’ development is an exaction which must be borne by the public agencies if the line is
to be dedicated to or used by the District. 36 If the new pipeline is installed, and it can also serve
other properties, the Schmehls should not bear the full cost of installation, but only the costs
necessary to address the impact of their new subdivision. Finally, the costs should also include
the cost to obtain any easements necessary for the connection. 37

III. The District has Discretion to Determine How and Where New Development Connects
     to its Water System, Provided the Choice is Reasonable and Rational.

The District has discretion to determine how and where secondary water service will be
delivered to the Valley View Estates subdivision, provided the decision is rationally based and
reasonable under the circumstances. The District has authority to build and maintain its water

33
   If the costs are roughly equal, the exaction is constitutionally valid, and no compensation is necessary. However,
if the compliance costs are greater, the Schmehls are being asked to bear costs that ought to be borne by the public in
general. They would either need to be compensated, or the requirement modified to reduce the excess burden.
34
    Both the City and the District have imposed the exaction, so it follows that they are jointly responsible if
compensation is required.
35
   This conclusion is based upon principles of fairness. In the same way that an individual property owner should
not bear costs that ought to be borne by the general public, a government entity should not be forced to assume
responsibility for costs imposed because of a separate entity’s decisions. Without any more specific guidance on this
important issue, it is the position of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman that fairness dictates such a
conclusion. See City of Monterrey v. Del Monte Dunes at Monterrey, LTD., 526 U.S. 687, 702 (“[I]n a general sense
concerns for proportionality animate the Takings Clause.”)
36
   According to Jill Taylor, the new six-inch line will be connected to the existing four-inch line beneath 475 East. If
that is true, the new line is a system improvement, along with providing direct service to the Valley View Estates
subdivision. As has been stated, the Schmehls should be responsible for the portion of the installation cost necessary
to serve the subdivision’s needs, but not for any additional costs, particularly for system improvements.
37
   As provided in § 78B-6-501(5) of the Utah Code, the Schmehls themselves may exercise eminent domain and
purchase an easement for the water line. Of course, both the City and the District may also exercise eminent domain
authority to purchase the easement.


Advisory Opinion – Schmehl/North Ogden City/Weber-Box Elder Conservation District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 6, 2010 – page 11 of 13 pages
delivery system, and has discretion to select how that system is to be operated. See UTAH CODE
ANN. § 17B-1-103(2)(d). A local district’s decisions regarding connection to the service
provided by the district is within the discretion of the governing body.

There are limits to local government discretion, however. The District’s decision must be
rationally based and reasonable. In addition, the District’s decision must not give rise to an
impermissible exaction violating constitutional protections. Each decision must be evaluated on a
case-by-case basis. It would not be rational, for example, to require a developer to connect at a
point some distance away when there is an acceptable connection point nearby. It would also be
unreasonable to select a connection point that requires a great deal of additional equipment,
when a more accessible and acceptable connection is available, without some rational basis to
favor the less accessible connection point.

The District should consider the cost to the Schmehls, but cost is not the controlling factor. The
District may weigh various considerations, such as ease of accessibility (including accessibility
for maintenance), capacity of the system, anticipated future needs, possible service disruption
due to construction, disturbance of existing residents’ property, etc. “[A public agency], in an
expansion movement involving the furnishing of essential public services, has a generous
latitude for controlling and administering such expansion and services to advance the public
welfare, and a concomitant latitude of discretion to approve plans affecting other citizens and
interests.” Seal v. Mapleton City, 598 P.2d 1346, 1347 (Utah 1979). 38 If there is more than one
acceptable connection point, a local district has discretion to choose any one of those
connections—provided the choice is reasonable—even if it results in greater costs to the
developer.

As long as the District’s decision is rationally based and not unreasonable, it may dictate the
location of the connection to the secondary water system. However, only limited information was
provided about the two possible connection points. As has been discussed, the District maintains
that the 475 East line will not provide adequate service. This is within the District’s discretion,
and ultimately, the District may, within established limits, determine the location for a
connection that best serves its customers’ needs.

                                                                 Conclusion
The City’s requirement that the Schmehls install a secondary water system is a valid condition.
It serves a legitimate public purpose, and was imposed by the City’s ordinance. The requirement
is an exaction, because it is a condition of subdivision approval and building permits. Both the
City and the District have imposed the exaction, and the requirement is subject to the “rough
proportionality” analysis, and both public entities are responsible to ensure compliance with the
constitutional standard.



38
  As has already been discussed, the rights and duties of a local district are comparable to those of a local
government. See Footnote 24 and related text, supra.


Advisory Opinion – Schmehl/North Ogden City/Weber-Box Elder Conservation District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 6, 2010 – page 12 of 13 pages
Like all exactions, the public bodies must show that the secondary water connection is valid
under the “rough proportionality” test required to implement the property rights protections of
the federal and state constitutions. It is very likely that there is an essential link between the
requirement and the legitimate public objective of promoting the efficient use of water resources.
In addition, the nature of the requirement is roughly proportionate to the impact created by the
proposed subdivision.

There has not been enough information provided to determine whether the required secondary
water connection satisfies the “extent” aspect of the analysis. The developer’s costs to comply
with the requirement must be roughly equivalent to the public expense needed to address the
impact caused by the development. The developer may only be required to construct an addition
to the system to the extent necessary to serve the subdivision. Any excess capacity is an exaction
that must be funded by public agencies. The costs of compliance include any costs to acquire
easements for the system.

Finally, the District has fairly broad discretion to determine how and where connections to its
secondary water system are made. As long as the choice is rational and reasonable, the District
may require connection in any manner it chooses. The District should consider such factors as
the system capacity, anticipated future needs, and ease of access. Cost to the developer should
be considered, but cost is not the controlling factor.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Schmehl/North Ogden City/Weber-Box Elder Conservation District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 6, 2010 – page 13 of 13 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63G-7-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

       S. Annette Spendlove, City Recorder           Weber-Box Elder Conservation District
       North Ogden City                              Terel H. Grimley, General Manager
       505 East 2600 North                           471 West 2nd Street
       North Ogden, Utah 84414                       Ogden, Utah 84404


On this ___________ Day of October, 2010, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
