                     Advisory Opinion #11
         Parties: Michael Pierce, Utah Valley Real Estate, LLC and Pleasant Grove City
                                          Issued: March 1, 2007

                                       TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      D: Exactions on Development

The applicant has no duty to provide land to extend a street through its
subdivision. The City could impose a condition upon approval of the subdivision
which would require the applicant to demonstrate that it has good and marketable
title to a “gap” in the property description before selling lots. The City’s
requirement of a larger 33-foot half width was not adequately supported by
substantial evidence.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                                      State of Utah
                                      Department of Commerce
  JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
                                      OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor



                                                                    Advisory Opinion


                  Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                Michael Pierce
                                                                                Utah Valley Real Estate, LLC

                  Local Government Entity:                                      Pleasant Grove City

                  Applicant for the Land Use Approval:                          Utah Valley Real Estate, LLC

                  Project:                                                      Olsson Subdivision
                                                                                Approx. 2000 North 600 West
                                                                                Pleasant Grove City

                  Date of this Advisory Opinion:                                March 1, 2007

                                                                               Issue

                  Are the street dedication and improvement requirements proposed by the City of
                  Pleasant Grove for the Olsson Subdivision legal conditions and exactions?

                                                               Summary of Conclusions

                  The applicant Utah Valley Real Estate LLC has no duty to provide land to extend
                  2100 North Street through its subdivision to 600 North Street. It may negotiate with
                  the City to trade land for that purpose if the pending quiet title action concludes that
                  the City has an interest in the disputed “gap” property and the City wishes to
                  participate in a trade. The City could impose a condition upon approval of the
                  subdivision which would require the applicant to demonstrate that it has good and
                  marketable title to the “gap” before selling lots.

                  The City standard for residential streets is 50 feet of road width. The City’s
                  requirement of a 33 foot half width pavement of 600 West has not been adequately



160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
supported by substantial evidence in the record that justifies a requirement higher
than a normal residential street half width.

                                           Review

The request for an advisory opinion in this matter was received by the Office of the
Property Rights Ombudsman on November 13, 2006. A letter with the request
attached was sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to Pleasant Grove City
on November 20, 2006. The letter was addressed to Amanda R. Fraughton, City
Recorder, at the address shown on the Governmental Immunity Act Database at the
Utah State Department of Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial
Code as required by statute. A receipt for delivery of the certified letter was dated
November 27, 2006.

Representatives of the City of Pleasant Grove did not respond with a preference as
to who should prepare this advisory opinion, but did provide a response to the
request for an advisory opinion and a number of documents and materials related to
the issues on January 5, 2007. The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman then
proceeded to prepare the opinion without objection by either party, that decision by
the Office being effective on January 8, 2007.

During the preparation of this opinion, I discussed the matter several times with
Michael Pierce, representative of the applicant. I also discussed the matter several
times with Christina Peterson, Pleasant Grove City Attorney and on one occasion
with Don McCandless, attorney for Michael Pierce.

                                          Evidence

The following documents were reviewed prior to completing this advisory opinion:

   1.      Request for an Advisory Opinion, filed with the Office of the Property
           Rights Ombudsman by Michael Pierce on November 13, 2006.
   2.      Letter from Craig Call, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, to Mike
           Pierce, dated June 20, 2006, together with excepts from the Pleasant Grove
           City Ordinances, sections 11‐3‐1, Purpose of Chapter; 11‐3‐4, Street
           Standards; and 11‐3‐5, Block Standards. A copy of this letter was provided
           via facsimile to Gary Fry at Pleasant Grove City with a written request
           that he provide a copy to Christina Peterson.


Advisory Opinion – Pleasant Grove/Utah Valley Real Estate
March 1, 2007 – Page 2 of 13 pages.
   3.      Letter of December 29, 2006 from Christine M. Peterson, Pleasant Grove
           City Attorney to Craig Call, received January 5, 2007.
   4.      Engineering Review Comments – Olsson Subdivision, apparently
           prepared by the Pleasant Grove City Engineer and dated July 27, 2006.
   5.      Olsson Subdivision Zoning Map, undated. Provided by Pleasant Grove
           City.
   6.      Olsson Subdivision Aerial, undated. Provided by Pleasant Grove City.
   7.      Olsson Subdivision Plat A. Undated 8 ½ by 11 inch reduction. Provided
           by Pleasant Grove City.
   8.      Pleasant Grove Ordinances, Title 11, Chapter 3, Street Standards and
           Improvements Required and Chapter 4, Development Improvements.
   9.      Pleasant Grove Public Works Standard Specifications and Drawings,
           Chapter 2, Section 1.06 Responsibility for Public Improvements.
   10.     Development Agreement. Unexecuted and undated. Provided by
           Pleasant Grove City.
   11.     Cost estimates for 2100 North Extension to 600 West, Prepared by J‐U‐B
           Engineers, Inc. Undated. Provided by Pleasant Grove City.

                                       Assumed facts

   1.      The individual who requested this advisory opinion represents an
           applicant for approval of the Olsson Subdivision within the city limits of
           Pleasant Grove City.
   2.      The proposed Olsson Subdivision consists of five lots fronting on 600 West
           Street at approximately 2000 North.
   3.      The existing 2000 North Street exists to the West of the location of the
           Olsson Subdivision, and currently extends from 820 West to the West
           boundary of the proposed subdivision, but does not continue through the
           parcel where the subdivision is proposed and does not therefore connect
           to 600 West. See exhibit “A”, Olsson Subdivision Zoning Map, attached.
   4.      Along the frontage of the proposed Olsson Subdivision, 600 West Street
           currently is paved, but not to the full 66 foot width anticipated in Pleasant
           Grove’s Master Street Plan. There are no curb, gutter, or sidewalk
           improvements.
   5.      There is no defined and recorded right of way for 600 West Street along its
           frontage with the Olsson Subdivision. The land occupied by the street is
           part of a “gap” left between legal descriptions as conveyances were




Advisory Opinion – Pleasant Grove/Utah Valley Real Estate
March 1, 2007 – Page 3 of 13 pages.
           recorded in historic times. The County Recorder’s records do not show
           that the “gap” is owned by any person or entity.
   6.      The “gap” is wider than 66 feet, and thus includes land that is not needed
           by Pleasant Grove City for street purposes.
   7.      Some of the land area within the “gap” has been enclosed by fences and
           otherwise treated as part of the real property owned and controlled by
           Utah Valley Real Estate LLC and its predecessors.
   8.      Some of the land area has clearly been used for street purposes without
           interruption for a period of time exceeding ten years and is thus
           permanently burdened by prescriptive road rights that are in favor of the
           public and owned and controlled by the City.
   9.      Some of the land area in the “gap” has been included within the borders
           of the platted lots of the Olsson Subdivision. Part of the land area within
           the “gap” must be included in these lots or the lots would not be of
           sufficient size to meet the minimum square footage required by the City
           ordinances for approval of the plat as proposed.
   10.     Utah Valley Real Estate LLC has filed a quiet title action to formally
           resolve its ownership of the portion of the “gap” which is included within
           the subdivision plat.
   11.     The proposed Olsson Subdivision received conditional approval by the
           Pleasant Grove Planning Commission. Among the conditions imposed as
           part of that approval were that the property owner work out an agreement
           for the extension of 2100 North through the subdivision property so that it
           would connect to 600 West and that variances be obtained which would
           allow two lots of the subdivision to be smaller than allowed by the strict
           terms of the relevant ordinances.
   12.     Variances have been obtained from the Pleasant Grove City Board of
           Adjustment to allow two lots to be created in a manner consistent with the
           preliminary plat approval. The City applied for these variances and
           which were granted on September 1, 2006.
   13.     In order to comply with the condition of the preliminary subdivision
           approval related to 2100 North, the property owner and representatives of
           the City have attempted to negotiate an arrangement that will provide for
           street improvements and the extension of 2100 North to 600 West.
   14.     The proposed development agreement provides:
           a. That the developer will dedicate land for the extension of 2100 North
               to 600 West Street.




Advisory Opinion – Pleasant Grove/Utah Valley Real Estate
March 1, 2007 – Page 4 of 13 pages.
            b. That the City will pay for the cost of all street improvements for the
               extension of 2100 North, which is estimated to cost $36,982.38.
            c. That the City will abandon any interest in that portion of the “gap”
               which lies within the boundaries of the lots shown on the subdivision
               plat.
   15.      The City’s preliminary approval of the subdivision also provided that the
            developer must replace the asphalt surface of 600 West to the centerline,
            thus requiring that it provide 33 feet of street improvements on that street.


                                          Analysis:

Right to Approval:

According to Utah Code Annotated, Section 10‐9a‐509(1)(a):

         An applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the
         application conforms to the requirements of an applicable land use ordinance
         in effect when a complete application is submitted and all fees have been
         paid, unless:
         (i) the land use authority, on the record, finds that a compelling,
         countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by approving the
         application; or
         (ii) in the manner provided by local ordinance and before the application is
         submitted, the municipality has formally initiated proceedings to amend its
         ordinances in a manner that would prohibit approval of the application as
         submitted.

In approving the preliminary plat that was proposed by the applicants for the
Olsson Subdivision, the Planning Commission is deemed to have concluded that the
proposed plat conforms to the requirements of the applicable land use ordinances,
as conditioned in the approval process.

Conditions:

The applicant disputes two conditions imposed on the subdivision approval. First,
the requirement that it dedicate land for the extension of 2100 North Street through
the property to 600 West Street and second, that it pave or otherwise improve a 33
foot half width of 600 West Street.


Advisory Opinion – Pleasant Grove/Utah Valley Real Estate
March 1, 2007 – Page 5 of 13 pages.
Dedication of Land for 2100 North Street:

Real estate dedication requirements as a condition of approval for land use
applicaitons are given the most scrutiny by the courts and held to higher standards
of review than other conditions and exactions on land use approvals. See Dolan v.
City of Tigard, 512 U.S. 374 (1994), requiring the dedication of land for flood control
and a bike path; and Nollan v. California Coastal Comm. 483 U.S. 825 (1987), requiring
the dedication of an easement for public access across beach property to the state in
order to obtain a building permit for a residence.         A recent Utah case, BAM
Development v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT App. 34 and 2006 UT 2, reemphasized the
need for individualized determinations of fairness in a situation where the county
demanded land to widen a busy street to accommodate future county road needs.

A property owner can refuse to dedicate private land to public use unless there is an
individualized determination by the municipality involved that the dedication is
both appropriate and proportionate. The relevant state statute provides:

       A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development
       proposed in a land use application if:
       (1) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
       each exaction; and
       (2) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
       impact of the proposed development.

U.C.A. 10‐9a‐508. If a land use approval does require a dedication without proof of
uniformity and proportionality, the land demanded must be compensated for. Since
the creation of a new city street across lands adjoining the proposed development
requires the acquisition and dedication of land to the City, it would be subject to
special scrutiny by the Courts if challenged. There is no substantial evidence in the
record that the proposed Olsson Subdivision creates the need for the extension of
2100 North to 600 West Street. My conclusion is that the extension of 2100 North is
for public purposes and does not offset burdens created by the proposed Olsson
Subdivision.

The requirement to extend 2100 North can only be imposed, therefore, if just
compensation is paid to the property owner. The City has agreed to pay the cost of
street improvements for 2100 North, but has indicated that it will require the


Advisory Opinion – Pleasant Grove/Utah Valley Real Estate
March 1, 2007 – Page 6 of 13 pages.
dedication of .14 acres of land for 2100 North without paying any compensation for
that land. As an incentive to encourage that dedication the City has offered to
abandon any claim to that portion of the “gap” property alongside 600 West Street
(approximately .21 acres) which lies within the platted lots of the proposed
subdivision.

If the applicant agreed with the proposed negotiated settlement to accommodate the
dedication of land for 2100 North, it would certainly resolve the issue. There would
be no illegality involved in such a voluntary agreement. The applicant claims,
however, that the City has no color of title or interest in the “gap” property to trade,
and that the City is obligated to pay just compensation for the land needed to extend
2100 North.

It is to be noted that the City need not approve a subdivision plat where part of the
minimum square footage of land needed for any lot is not clearly owned by the
applicant, and also that if the owner of a subdivision lot does not have good and
marketable title to all of the property within that lot, it cannot convey clean title to
retail purchasers. For these reasons the City is justified in not granting final
approval for the Olsson Subdivision until clear title to the “gap” property is
established. That can be accomplished by the quiet title action that is currently
proceeding, where it is likely that the only parties to the action will be the applicant
and the City. The Court will resolve the issue and determine the relative interests of
the City and the applicant in the “gap” property.

If the applicant obtains clear title from the court, the City has nothing to trade for the
property needed to extend 2100 North Street. To require the dedication of land at
that point would be an illegal exaction unless just compensation is paid to the
applicant. The City could not then deny final approval of the subdivision plat that
was submitted for preliminary approval if that denial was based on an issue related
to the ownership of the land within the “gap”.

If the City prevails in the quiet title action, then the City has .21 acres of land that it
can trade to the applicant for the 2100 North property if it wishes to. The City can
also deny the subdivision application in the form previously submitted and require
the plat to be amended to show only the property that is owned by the applicant
within the boundaries of each platted lot. The City could also obtain the needed
property for 2100 North Street through an action in eminent domain which would
provide for the payment of just compensation for the land taken.


Advisory Opinion – Pleasant Grove/Utah Valley Real Estate
March 1, 2007 – Page 7 of 13 pages.
City officials may be understandably frustrated by the legal conclusions arrived at
here in light of the efforts made by the City to obtain a variance for the applicant
which allowed for the creation of the 2100 North Extension without the loss of a
building lot by the applicant. Perhaps some may conclude that the variance should
have been obtained after the other issues involved in the proposed development
agreement were resolved and the agreement was signed. In any event, the variance
granted benefited both the applicant and the City, because if just compensation is
eventually paid in this matter, it would likely have been in a higher amount without
the variance.

Under Utah law, the amount of just compensation must include an analysis of
“severance damages”, which might have been due in this case if the city eliminated
a building lot and thus imposed a more significant financial burden on the property
owner than just the loss of .14 acre of land. The variance benefited both the City and
the applicant because it minimized the impact of the extension on the property
owner and the amount of just compensation that the City might have had to pay if
the developer lost a building lot in the process.

Street Improvements to 600 West Street:

The applicant also has raised a question about the required improvements to 600
West Street imposed by the City in its review of the Olsson Subdivision. The City is
demanding the improvement of a half width of 600 West at its projected ultimate 66
foot width. This would require the applicant to provide 33 feet of street
improvements. This is provided for in the Pleasant Grove “Public Works Standard
Specifications and Drawings” (PWS) at Section 1.06 “Responsibility for Public
Improvements” where the standard provides minimum sizes that are “the
responsibility of the Developer.” In a table provided in that section of the standard,
a “street (residential)” is noted to include a “minimum size developer is responsible
to pay for” of “50’ right‐of‐way”. In the same table, a developer is responsible to pay
for improvements to a “street (non‐residential)” of “66’ right‐of‐way”.

The Olsson Subdivision is a residential development. The City claims that 600 West
is a “non‐residential street” but the applicant’s uses are residential and the aerial
photos provided show residential development in the area. There do not appear to
be commercial or industrial land uses adjacent to 600 West in this location. Even if
there were such uses, the applicant’s uses are single family residential, and it would


Advisory Opinion – Pleasant Grove/Utah Valley Real Estate
March 1, 2007 – Page 8 of 13 pages.
not be appropriate to impose commercial or industrial burdens on his residential
use. Based on the residential standards, the applicant here is required to pay for 50’
of street improvements, not 66 feet. The text of the standard provides “In residential
zones, when streets wider than 66’ are required (except for large scale subdivision),
the City will reimburse the Developer the cost of road base and surfacing for any
additional asphalt width required in excess of 50’.”

The City is requiring the improvement of a half‐width of 33 feet of 600 West Street in
this instance, not 50 feet. The Pleasant Grove City Ordinances (PGCO) at 11‐3‐4 (K)
“Street Dedications and Paving” provide that “The full width (described above) of
all streets within a subdivision shall be dedicated and the roadway paved. No half
streets will be permitted.” 600 West Street is not “within a subdivision”, so this
provision would not apply, thus implying what the City’s actions in this case also
support – the conclusion that improvements to a half width of a city street are
allowed for streets that are “without” a subdivision.

PGCO at 11‐4‐1 (D) “Curbs, Gutters and Sidewalks” requires “Curbs, gutters and
sidewalks on both sides of the streets, except along the outer side of a street which
borders on a subdivision . . .” It appears that 600 West Street is a street which
“borders on a subdivision”. This provision also supports the conclusion that
requirements for the improvement of half of the street area are appropriate under
the City’s ordinances.

In a recent and similar case, the Utah Supreme Court has described the manner in
which street dedications and improvements can be mandated through the
development approval process.

A requirement to widen and/or to improve a street is a development exaction as
defined by the Utah Supreme Court:

       Exactions are conditions imposed by governmental entities on developers for
       the issuance of a building permit or subdivision plat approval. (citation
       omitted). They may "serve more than a single development" and "may take
       the form of: (1) mandatory dedication of land for roads, schools or parks, as a
       condition to plat approval, (2) fees-in-lieu of mandatory dedication, (3) water
       or sewage connection fees, and (4) impact fees."




Advisory Opinion – Pleasant Grove/Utah Valley Real Estate
March 1, 2007 – Page 9 of 13 pages.
BAM Development v. Salt Lake County, 2006 UT 2, P34. The Utah Legislature has
imposed limitations on the imposition of exactions on development in the Utah
Land Use Development and Management Act:

       A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development
       proposed in a land use application provided that:
       (1) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
       each exaction; and
       (2) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
       impact of the proposed development.

Utah Code Annotated, Section 10‐9a‐508. These requirements relate to individual
conditions and exactions imposed on approval of a land use application as well as to
exactions that are required by the general provisions of the land use ordinance.
BAM Development, P46.

Generally, issues involving development exactions do not arise from general
requirements imposed by ordinance that provide for minimum standards of health
and safety. For example, the City has requirements in its development standards
that provide that any development must be served by a minimum 8 inch water line.
(See the City’s PWS at Section 1.06) This requirement would be upheld by a court
because it provides a reasonable minimum standard for fire flows and pressure and
is uniformly imposed on all development. The exactions analysis would not apply,
nor would it apply for the imposition of the 50 foot wide residential right of way
that is provided in the same section as the minimum needed for residential streets.

When the City’s minimum requirements have thus been set, however, the
requirement of more land and more street improvements must be supported by an
individualized analysis of rough proportionality as required by statute and case law.
The last paragraph in the City’s PWS at Section 1.06 states that roadways up to 66
feet can be exacted without compensation, including the dedication of land. In light
of the BAM case and U.S. Supreme Court precedents, these general requirements are
unconstitutional unless supported, in each situation, with substantial evidence on
the record justifying the dedication requirements.

No such analysis was completed in this matter. Since the proposed subdivision is
for residential uses, the residential standard of 50 feet would apply unless it is
shown that the Olsson Subdivision creates the need for a 66 foot street. Since the
City has agreed to allow a half street improvement in this case, the applicant can be


Advisory Opinion – Pleasant Grove/Utah Valley Real Estate
March 1, 2007 – Page 10 of 13 pages.
required to provide 25 feet of pavement from the center line of 600 West. No
additional street pavement can be required unless it is shown by substantial
evidence on the record that the proposed subdivision is creating the need for a 33
foot half width.

                                         Conclusion

The applicant has no duty to provide land to extend 2100 North Street through its
subdivision to 600 North Street. It may negotiate with the City to trade land for that
purpose if the pending quiet title action concludes that the City has an interest in the
disputed “gap” property and the City wishes to participate in a trade. The City
could condition approval of the subdivision on the applicant demonstrating that it
has good and marketable title to the “gap” before selling lots.

The City’s requirement of a 33 foot half width pavement of 600 West has not been
adequately supported by substantial evidence in the record that supports the
conclusion that the proposed Olsson Subdivision creates the need for a 33 foot wide
half street instead of a 25 foot wide half street, which would seem to meet the road
requirements for normal residential uses.




Craig M. Call, Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, 13‐42‐205. It does
not constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or
policy of the State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions
expressed are arrived at based on a summary review of the factual situation
involved in this specific matter, and may or may not reflect the opinion that might
be expressed in another matter where the facts and circumstances are different or
where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his
understanding of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this



Advisory Opinion – Pleasant Grove/Utah Valley Real Estate
March 1, 2007 – Page 11 of 13 pages.
matter. Anyone with an interest in these issues who must protect that interest
should seek the advice of his or her own legal counsel and not rely on this
document as a definitive statement of how to protect or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is
not binding on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue
that is the subject of an advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation,
and that cause of action is litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is
resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the substantially prevailing party
on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees and court costs
pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the delivery
of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the
opinions, writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property
Rights Ombudsman are not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in
small claims court, a judicial review of arbitration, or in determining costs and
legal fees as explained above.




Advisory Opinion – Pleasant Grove/Utah Valley Real Estate
March 1, 2007 – Page 12 of 13 pages.
                                MAILING CERTIFICATE



Utah Code Annotated Section 13‐43‐206(10)(b) requires delivery of the attached
advisory opinion to the government entity involved in this matter in a manner
that complies with U.C.A. Section 63‐30d‐401 (Notices Filed Under the
Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to
the agent designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of
the governmental entity in the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained
by the Utah State Department of Commerce, Division of Corporations and
Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database
is as follows:

       Amanda R. Fraughton
       City Recorder
       City of Pleasant Grove
       70 South 100 East
       Pleasant Grove, UT 84062

On this _______________ day of March, 2007, I caused the attached Advisory
Opinion to be delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the
United States Postal Service, postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt
requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                      _______________________________________________________
                      Shantel Marcy, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Pleasant Grove/Utah Valley Real Estate
March 1, 2007 – Page 13 of 13 pages.
