                     Advisory Opinion #66
                          Parties: Hylan Harper and City of South Jordan
                                           Issued: April 7, 2009

                                          TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      D: Exactions on Development
                      R(ii): Other Topics (Subdivision Plat Approval)

Developers may be required to construct and dedicate streets and sidewalks if the
cost to the developer is roughly equal to the impact of the development on local
services. Based on decisions from other jurisdictions, it appears that a detailed
analysis is not required, and some sort of reasonably reliable analysis is sufficient.
It is suggested that local governments follow the general guidelines of the Utah
Impact Fee Act to determine both the impacts of development and dedication
costs.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                         State of Utah
                         Department of Commerce
JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
       Governor
                         OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 GARY R. HERBERT
 Lieutenant Governor



                                         ADVISORY OPINION

       Advisory Opinion Requested by:              Hylan Harper

       Local Government Entity:                    South Jordan City

       Applicant for the Land Use Approval:        Hylan Harper

       Project:                                    Residential Subdivision

       Date of this Advisory Opinion:              April 7, 2009

       Opinion Authored By:                        Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney,
                                                   Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                   Issues
       May a City require dedication of property and construction of a roadway, curb, gutter and
       sidewalk as a condition of approval for a two-lot subdivision?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
       A local government may impose conditions and exactions upon development, so long as those
       conditions comply with the rough proportionality test of UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508. That test
       requires some sort of individualized determination showing that the proposed exaction is roughly
       proportional to the impact of the new development. The Utah Supreme Court has interpreted the
       term “rough proportionality” as meaning “rough equality” between the costs to the local
       government to assuage the impact and the costs to the property owner to comply with the
       exaction.

       The impact of a new development may be measured by applying the same principles and
       guidelines used to calculate impact fees. An extensive analysis specific to the property is not
       necessarily required for each new development, but the local government is obligated to show
       some sort of determination comparing the costs of the impact against the property owner’s
       compliance costs. The calculations may be based upon any reliable data as long as the
       determination is fair and accurate. A determination made by a local government should be
       afforded a level of deference if it is based on reliable data. In like manner, the costs to the
property owner must also be based on reliable data and market value, reflecting the current state
of the property to be dedicated, and not speculation based on non-economic factors.

                                                      Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-
205. The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or
other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such
a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from Hylan Harper on December 15, 2008.
A letter with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return receipt requested, Anna M.
West, South Jordan City Recorder, 1600 South Towne Center Drive, South Jordan, Utah 84095.
Ms. West’s name was listed on the State’s Governmental Immunity Database, as the contact
person for the City. On January 26, 2009, Ryan W. Loose, Assistant City Attorney, responded by
proposing that the parties attempt to mediate the dispute. On Februray 2, 2009, the parties met at
the South Jordan City Offices to mediate. At that time, Mr. Harper, through his attorney, Justin
Baer, submitted a “Mediation Brief,” further explaining his position. Following the mediation,
the parties returned to preparations for the Advisory Opinion. On February 26, 2009, the City
submitted a response. A copy was also delivered to Mr. Harper. On March 16, 2009, Mr. Baer
submitted a reply.

                                                     Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion dated December 15, 2008 with the Office of the
                 Property Rights Ombudsman by Hylan Harper, with attachments.
     2.          Proposal that the Parties Mediate the dispute, received January 26, 2009.
     3.          Mediation Brief, submitted at February 2, 2009 mediation. 1
     4.          South Jordan’s response, received February 26, 2009.
     5.          Hylan Harper’s reply, received March 16, 2009.


                                                    Background

1
 As a rule, communications made as part of a mediation are not disclosed or made public. However, the Mediation
Brief prepared by Mr. Harper’s attorney does not contain information that is not already made known in other
submissions. For this reason, it is included as part of the materials reviewed for this Opinion.

Advisory Opinion – Hylan Harper/South Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 7, 2009 – page 2 of 13 pages
Hylan Harper owns a one acre parcel along 2200 West in South Jordan. It is located across the
street from the Salt Lake County Equestrian Center, and is bordered on the rear by an irrigation
canal. The property has been used for agricultural purposes, and has no buildings. The parcel is
rather narrow and irregularly shaped due to the canal, which limits the useable area, but it may
be divided into two residential lots. Mr. Harper proposed such a subdivision, creating two lots of
approximately 17,000 square feet. Because they are narrow, the lots are much wider than other
similarly-sized lots. One lot is approximately 153 feet wide, and the other is approximately 215
feet wide. According to the City, most similarly-situated lots are 90 to 100 feet wide. Mr.
Harper’s present plans are to construct a home on one lot, and leave the other for future
development or sale.

Mr. Harper applied for a two-lot subdivision. The City informed him that, as a condition of
approval, he would need to dedicate a portion of his property to widen 2200 West and install a
curb, gutter, and sidewalk. The dedication would widen 2200 West to a total of 66 feet, plus the
curb and sidewalk. The road is paved to the edge of the Equestrian Park, which has a curb and
sidewalk, but is only partially paved on the opposite side, where the property is located. The
dedication and paving would allow three lanes on the road (two travel lanes and a turning lane).
The City notes that its standard for new “minor collector” roads, such as 2200 West, is 71 feet.
However, the City also recognizes that its former street width standard was 66 feet wide, and that
most of 2200 West is already built to that width. Thus, the City does not require that 2200 West
be built to 71 feet, but only to 66 feet, which is less than its standard.

Mr. Harper’s property boundary extends into the 2200 West roadway, although not to the halfway
point. In all, the City requires about 28 feet of Mr. Harper’s property for the dedication, which
includes the curb and sidewalk. The City notes that the dedication is actually less than what
could have been required. 2 Mr. Harper states that the dedication would require about .30 acres,
from the total parcel area of 1.06 acres. A portion of the property to be dedicated is paved and
used as part of the roadway. Mr. Harper would not be required to replace the asphalt. The
“shoulder” of the road, approximately 10 feet in width, is also part of Mr. Harper’s property. The
City maintains that roadway and shoulder have been used extensively for public travel, and
should therefore be a “roadway by dedication,” as provided in § 72-5-104 of the Utah Code. 3
According to the City, this roadway portion accounts for about .14 acres, or roughly one-half of
the total dedication.

The dedication includes a curb, gutter, and sidewalk, which will be owned and maintained by the
City, but installed by Mr. Harper. The City notes that it will not only assume ownership of the
sidewalk and gutter, but will also assume responsibility for maintenance and any liability for
accidents.



2
  If Mr. Harper’s property had extended further into the roadway, he would have been required to dedicate at least 33
feet (or possibly 35.5 feet) just for the roadway, in addition to the curb, gutter, and sidewalk.
3
  As provided in that statute, private land that has been used as a roadway by the general public for a continuous
period of at least ten years is considered to be dedicated to public use. Mr. Harper acknowledges that the paved
portion has been dedicated as a public right-of-way, but disputes that any other portion has been dedicated by public
use. The shoulder or roadway portion of the property is not included as part of the buildable areas of his lots.

Advisory Opinion – Hylan Harper/South Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 7, 2009 – page 3 of 13 pages
Mr. Harper estimates the total cost of the dedication and improvements to be about $144,000.00.
This includes the value of the property dedicated, based on the tax assessment determined by Salt
Lake County, plus the cost of constructing the improvements. The City estimates the
approximate cost of the improvements to be $69,000.00. The City maintains that Mr. Harper has
overstated the value of the property, because he has not provided any appraisal, and because he
failed to consider that a large portion of the property should be considered dedicated by use.

The City cites to its own ordinances, which state that all property owners must “take into account
proposed streets and street widths indicated in the city transportation plan” when planning
development. 4 In addition, developers “shall be required to dedicate and improve . . . any street
or portion thereof, which is planned in or necessitated by the development and that is rationally
related to the development’s impact on the city’s transportation plan.” 5 The City also notes that
Mr. Harper did not consult with its staff prior to purchasing the property. According to the City,
had Mr. Harper discussed his proposed plans with City staff, he would have been aware of the
dedication requirement, and could have taken the requirement into account prior to purchasing
the property.

Mr. Harper states that the subdivision will have no impact on the City’s transportation needs, and
so the City is not justified in requiring any dedication. Mr. Harper also disputes that any portion
of his property has been dedicated to the public by use other than the paved portion in the 2200
West roadway. The City states that there is an impact on its transportation system, and that even
a single home still uses public roads for access. Those roads need to be built and maintained at a
width adequate to provide that access as well as safe travel. Furthermore, curbs, gutters, and
sidewalks serve properties, enhancing their value by improving access and appearance, and by
diverting stormwater from the property. The City contends that this service justifies the
dedication.

                                                    Analysis
     I. Exactions of Property

“Exactions are conditions imposed by governmental entities on developers for the issuance of a
building permit or subdivision plat approval.” B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County,
2006 UT 2, ¶ 34, 128 P.3d 1161, 1169 (“B.A.M. I”) 6 The term “exaction” includes any condition
on development, including not only dedication of property, but also payment of money,
installation of specific improvements, or other requirements imposed by a public entity.
Furthermore, the term “exaction” includes conditions imposed by a general legislative enactment
as well as those imposed by decisions or negotiations on specific proposals. Id., 2006 UT 2, ¶
46, 128 P.3d at 1170.


4
  SOUTH JORDAN CITY CODE, § 16.04.170
5
  Id.
6
   See also Salt Lake County v. Board of Education, Granite School District, 808 P.2d 1056, 1058 (Utah 1991)
(holding that “development exactions” are “contributions to a governmental entity imposed as a condition precedent
to approving the developer’s project.”)

Advisory Opinion – Hylan Harper/South Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 7, 2009 – page 4 of 13 pages
In 2005, the Utah Legislature enacted § 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code, which authorizes cities to
impose exactions on new development, within established limits:

           (1) A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed
           in a land use application if:
               (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
           each exaction; and
               (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
           impact of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1). 7 The Utah Supreme Court observed that the language of this statute
was borrowed directly from the U.S. Supreme Court analyses in Nollan v. California Coastal
Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825, 107 S.Ct. 3141 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374, 114
S.Ct. 2309 (1994). See B.A.M. I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 41, 128 P.3d at 1170. In those two landmark
cases, the U.S. Supreme Court promulgated rules for determining when an exaction may be
validly imposed under the federal constitution’s Takings Clause. 8 This has come to be known as
the Nollan/Dolan “rough proportionality” test, which has been codified at UTAH CODE § 10-9a-
508. Exaction analysis “animates” the Takings Clause of the U.S. Constitution. Monterey v. Del
Monte Dunes at Monterey, LTD, 526 U.S. 687, 703, 119 S.Ct. 1624, 1635 (1999). The “rough
proportionality test” ensures the preservation of rights guaranteed by the Federal and Utah
Constitutions. See B.A.M. I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 41. 128 P.3d at 1170. In order to be valid, the
requirements imposed by the City must satisfy that analysis.

The Utah Supreme Court further honed the “rough proportionality” rule in B.A.M. Development,
LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2008 UT 74, 196 P.3d 601 (“B.A.M. II”), which was a second appeal
stemming from the same development project at issue in the earlier decision. 9 The court
explained that rough proportionality analysis “has two aspects: first, the exaction and impact
must be related in nature; second, they must be related in extent.” B.A.M. II, 2008 UT 74, ¶ 9,
196 P.3d at 603. The “nature” aspect focuses on the relationship between the purported impact
and proposed exaction. The court stated that the approach should be expressed “in terms of a
solution and a problem . . . . [T]he impact is the problem, or the burden which the community
will bear because of the development. The exaction should address the problem. If it does, then
the nature component has been satisfied.” Id., 2008 UT 74, ¶ 10, 196 P.3d at 603-04.

The “extent” aspect of the rough proportionality analysis measures the impact against the
proposed exaction in terms of cost:


7
  There is a corresponding statute applicable to counties found at § 17-27a-507 of the Utah Code.
8
  See U.S. CONST., amend. V. (“nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.”) The
Supreme Court has interpreted the Takings Clause as limiting a government’s ability to impose conditions on
development. Furthermore, “[t]he Utah Constitution reinforces the protection of private property against
uncompensated governmental takings . . . .” B.A.M. I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 31, 128 P.3d at 1168. See also UTAH CONST.
art. I, § 22 (“Private property shall not be taken or damaged for public use without just compensation.”)
9
  The original B.A.M. II opinion was issued in July 2008 (See B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2008
UT 45), but it was superceded by an amended opinion issued in October of that year. This Opinion will cite to the
amended B.A.M. II decision, found at 2008 UT 74, 196 P.3d 601.

Advisory Opinion – Hylan Harper/South Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 7, 2009 – page 5 of 13 pages
           The most appropriate measure is cost—specifically, the cost of the exaction and
           the impact to the developer and the municipality, respectively. The impact of the
           development can be measured as the cost to the municipality of assuaging the
           impact. Likewise, the exaction can be measured as the value of the land to be
           dedicated by the developer at the time of the exaction.

Id., 2008 UT 74, ¶ 11, 196 P.3d at 604. The court continued by holding that “roughly
proportional” means “roughly equivalent.” Thus, in order to be valid, the cost of an exaction
must be roughly equivalent to the cost that a local government would incur to address (or
“assuage”) the impact attributable to a new development. Therefore, in order to be a valid
exaction, the exaction must meet each of the aspects of this rough proportionality test.

     II. Determining if the Required Exactions are Valid.

A. There is an Essential Link Between the Dedications and Legitimate Government Interests.

Requiring dedication of property for and construction of 2200 West, plus a curb, gutter, and
sidewalk satisfies the first aspect of the Nollan/Dolan rough proportionality test. Building and
maintaining adequate roadways is a legitimate government interest, as is the construction and
maintenance of sidewalks. UTAH CODE § 10-8-8; see also Carrier v. Lindquist, 2001 UT 105, ¶
18, 37 P.3d 1112, 1117. 10 Widening roads is a reasonable means to promote that interest. Id.
Requiring Mr. Harper to dedicate a portion of his property to widen a road, and install a curb,
gutter, and sidewalk promotes the City’s legitimate objectives, so the first prong of § 10-9a-
508(1) is satisfied. 11

B. Rough Proportionality Between the Exactions and the Impacts of the Development.

The second aspect of the “rough proportionality” test requires an “individualized determination
that the required dedication is related both in nature and extent to the impact of the proposed
development.” Dolan, 512 U.S. at 392. As noted above, the Utah Supreme Court has interpreted
the “rough proportionality” test to mean a two-part analysis. First, each exaction must be related
in nature to an impact attributable to the development. B.A.M. II, 2008 UT 74, ¶ 9-10, 196 P.3d
at 603-04. Second, there must be “rough equivalence” of the costs to “assuage” the impacts
caused by a new development, and the expense borne by the property owner to satisfy the
development condition. See B.A.M. II, 2008 UT 74, ¶ 11, 196 P.3d at 604. The court noted that

10
   “In order for a government to be effective, it needs the power to establish or relocate public throughways, even at
the expense of some individual citizens, for the convenience and safety of the general public. . . . In fact, cities are
vested with the statutory power to ‘lay out, establish, open, alter, widen, narrow, extend, grade, pave or otherwise
improve streets, alleys, avenues, boulevards, sidewalks, . . . and may vacate the same . . . by ordinance’. UTAH CODE
§ 10-8-8." Carrier, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18, 37 P.2d at 1117. Furthermore, “[d]edications for streets, sidewalks, and
other public ways are generally reasonable exactions to avoid excessive congestion from a proposed property use.”
Dolan, 512 U.S. at 395.
11
   Note that the first prong of the exaction test in § 10-9a-508 requires an essential link between the exaction and a
legitimate government interest. This first prong does not, however, require an essential link between the exaction
and the approval sought. See Nollan, 483 U.S. at 837. The “rough proportionality,” or second prong of the test,
weighs the impact of project for which approval has been sought against the nature and extent of the proposed
exaction. See B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶¶ 39-40, 128 P.3d at 1169-70.

Advisory Opinion – Hylan Harper/South Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 7, 2009 – page 6 of 13 pages
“exact equality between the factors is unnecessary” Id., 2008 UT 74, ¶ 12, n.4, 196 P.3d at 604,
n.4 (quoting Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391). 12 A complete analysis, therefore, requires that both the
impacts and the costs be measured and compared.

C. Measuring the Impacts of Development

There is little guidance on how to measure the impacts attributable to a development, or the
compliance costs borne by a property owner. The Dolan decision requires an “individualized
determination,” but it does not elaborate further. The dispute between B.A.M. Development and
Salt Lake County has so far spawned four appellate decisions, none of which explains how to
determine the costs of assuaging an impact so that those costs can be compared to the financial
burden placed upon the property owner. 13

The most recent B.A.M. decision stated that the property owner’s cost is the value of the property
that is dedicated. 14 The value of the property should be determined by a competent appraisal,
which should reflect the actual condition and current market value of the property to be
dedicated, including the existence of any easements or other conflicting claims. The value of
property is not necessarily uniform throughout the entire parcel. The portion to be dedicated
may therefore have a significantly different value than the remainder, depending upon the
particular circumstances of the parcel. In addition, although not expressly stated in the B.A.M. II
opinion, it would be consistent with that decision to also include reasonable construction costs of
required public improvements. 15

The cost to a local government to assuage the impact of development is also difficult to measure.
The impact may be read more broadly than just that which directly arises from the development
itself, such as the number of vehicle trips to and from a development. A review of the Dolan
decision helps illustrate this point. In Dolan, the Supreme Court looked to state court decisions to
develop its own standard of review for exactions. These decisions fell into three general

12
   The court also quoted Banberry v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899, 904 (Utah 1981): “Precise mathematical
equality is neither feasible nor constitutionally vital.” (other citation omitted)).
13
   B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT App 34, 87 P.3d 710; B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt
Lake County, 2006 UT 2, 128 P.3d 1161, B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2008 UT 45, 2008 Utah
LEXIS 100, amended opinion at 2008 UT 74, 196 P.3d 601.
14
   Like Mr. Harper’s situation, the B.A.M. saga arose from a required dedication of property for a roadway.
Originally, Salt Lake County required dedication of a 40-foot strip for a road (measured from the center line of the
roadway). A year later, however, the county then enlarged the dedication to 53 feet. The developer did not object to
the original 40-foot requirement, but did object to the additional 13 feet, which would require alteration to the
planned subdivision, possibly reducing the total number of lots on the parcel. B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt
Lake County, 2004 UT App 34, ¶ 2, n.1, 87 P.3d 710, n. 1. The property boundary extended to the center line of the
roadway, so most of the dedication was already being used for traffic (the roadway had been used for many years).
See Brief of Petitioner and Cross-Respondent, B.A.M. Development LLC v. Salt Lake County, Docket No. 20040365
(Brief filed with the Utah Supreme Court for the first B.A.M. appeal), at 5. This portion would most likely have
been considered dedicated by public use, pursuant to § 72-5-104 of the Utah Code.
15
   See e.g., Town of Flower Mound v. Stafford, 135 S.W.3d 620 (Tex. 2003) (requirement that developer improve an
existing road, but not dedicate property, was held to be an exaction subject to rough proportionality analysis); see
also St. John’s River Water Management District v. Coy, 2009 Fla. App. LEXIS 91 (requiring wetland mitigation on
property located over four miles from a development held to be an exaction subject to rough proportionality
analysis).

Advisory Opinion – Hylan Harper/South Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 7, 2009 – page 7 of 13 pages
categories. The first required only “generalized statements as to the necessary connection
between the required dedication and the proposed development.” Dolan, 512 U.S. at 389. The
Court rejected this approach as too lax to protect property owners’ rights. Id. The second
approach consisted of “a very exacting correspondence . . . if the local government cannot
demonstrate that its exaction is directly proportional to the specifically created need,” the
exaction would not be valid. Id., 512 U.S. at 389-90 (citations omitted). The Court rejected this
approach as too strict. 16

The Court eventually settled on an intermediate approach, which was not too strict, but not too
lax. The Court adopted language used by the Utah Supreme Court, which had held “’that the
dedication should have some reasonable relationship to the needs created by the
[development.]’” Id., (quoting Call v. City of West Jordan, 606 P.2d 217, 220 (Utah 1979)). 17
This intermediate approach was deemed “the reasonable relationship test,” and was considered to
be “closer to the federal constitutional norm” than the other tests. Id. The Court christened its
approach “rough proportionality,” which it described as follows: “No precise mathematical
calculation is required, but the [local government] must make some sort of individualized
determination that the required dedication is related both in nature and extent to the impact of the
proposed development.” Id.

There are a few reported cases that have analyzed whether specific dedications are roughly
proportional to the impacts of developments. Those cases provide helpful guidance as to how
the impacts due to a development may be measured. The Washington Supreme Court evaluated
a property dedication question not long after the Dolan decision. In Sparks v. Douglas County,
904 P.2d 738 (Wash. 1995), the court upheld a requirement that a property developer dedicate
property to expand existing rights-of-way, so that the roads would comply with the county’s
width standards. The development consisted of four small subdivisions of four lots apiece,
which were located on different roads. The county required different dedications widening at
least four streets. The county prepared a report showing that the roads did not meet the county’s
standards and were far too narrow. 18 One specific concern was access by public safety vehicles.
The property owner objected to the condition, because he felt that the traffic impact attributable
to the subdivisions was too small to justify widening the roads.

The Washington Court of Appeals agreed with the property owner, holding that “there was no
evidence that the residential development . . . would have an adverse impact which would
necessitate widening the adjacent roads.” Id., 904 P.2d at 741. The state’s supreme court
reversed, however, noting that the strict rule adopted by the court of appeals had been rejected by
Dolan. 19 The court held that the dedication requirements were roughly proportional to the

16
   Dolan, 512 U.S. at 390. “We do not think the Federal Constitution requires such exacting scrutiny, given the
nature of the interests involved.” See generally Ocean Harbor House Homeowners Ass’n v. California Coastal
Comm’n, 77 Cal. Rptr. 3d 432, 442-43 (2008), for a discussion and analysis of the Nollan and Dolan decisions.
17
   In B.A.M. II, the Utah Supreme Court seems to have overlooked the fact that the Dolan rule was derived largely
from Call v. West Jordan. .
18
   Sparks, 904 P.2d at 740. Two streets were 45 feet wide, one was 25 feet, and the last was only 15 feet wide. The
county’s road standards called for widths of 60 to 80 feet, plus sidewalks.
19
   Sparks, 904 P.2d at 743. The court of appeals had issued its decision about a year before the Dolan opinion was
written. See Sparks v. Douglas County, 863 P.2d 142 (Wash. Ct. App. 1993).

Advisory Opinion – Hylan Harper/South Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 7, 2009 – page 8 of 13 pages
impacts of the subdivisions. The court found that the county’s studies were sufficient to be
considered the kind of individualized determinations required by Dolan. 20

In Ocean Harbor House Homeowners Association v. California Coastal Commission, 77 Cal.
Rptr. 3d 432 (Cal. Ct. App. 2008), the California Court of Appeal evaluated a mitigation fee that
had been imposed as a condition of approval for a new seawall. The wall was necessary to
protect an existing building from erosion, but about one acre of public beach would be lost. The
California Coastal Commission granted approval for the seawall, on the condition that the
property owners pay a mitigation fee to offset the loss of the beach. Three methods to calculate
the fee (i.e., the measure of the impact) were considered. The first method based the fee on the
cost to replace an acre of sand; the second on the cost to purchase one acre of comparable beach
property; and the third used the recreational value of one acre of beach. The Commission
adopted the third method, and the total mitigation fee was calculated to be about $5 million,
compared to about $1 million each for the other two approaches. Ocean Harbor House, 77 Cal.
Rptr. 3d at 437-38.

The California Court of Appeal upheld the fee as a proper exaction under the Nollan/Dolan
analysis. The court held that the recreation-based fee properly measured the impact caused by
the loss of the beach due to the seawall. Simply replacing the lost beach area by another parcel
somewhere else (or by somehow replacing the sand) didn’t adequately address the economic and
recreational loss caused by the construction. Basing the mitigation fee on recreational loss was
an appropriate measure of the impact of the loss. Thus, the fee was roughly proportional to the
impact of the proposed seawall. Id., 77 Cal. Rptr. 3d at 449-450. 21

The Texas Supreme Court also considered the measure of a development’s impact in Town of
Flower Mound v. Stafford Estates L.P., 135 S.W.3d 620 (Tex. 2004). 22 In that case, a developer
was required to improve an existing road in order to obtain approval for a subdivision. The
developer was not required to dedicate any property, but it was required to rebuild the road so
that it could handle a greater traffic load. The town argued that the road improvement was
necessary due to the impact of the subdivision. The developer maintained that since the new
subdivision would only increase traffic on that road by 18%, the requirement that the road be
rebuilt was an unfair burden.

Ultimately, the court held that the town had not made the kind of individualized determination
required by Dolan. However, the court did agree that the town could consider the impacts on all
of its roadways, not just the road which the developer was expected to rebuild.

20
   Sparks, 904 P.2d at 745-46. In the B.A.M. II decision, the Utah Supreme Court cited to Sparks, as part of the
reasoning supporting its interpretation of the rough proportionality rule.
21
   The Commission used data assessing the recreational value of beaches in southern California, even though the
seawall was located farther north in Monterey. The California Court of Appeal found that the data was nevertheless
applicable, and accepted the fee calculation as constituting an individualized determination of the seawall’s impact.
Ocean Harbor House, 77 Cal. Rptr. 3d at 449.
22
   In Dolan, the U.S. Supreme Court cited to a Texas decision as supportive of the “reasonable relationship” test that
evolved into the “rough proportionality” analysis. Dolan, 512 U.S. at 390-91 (quoting College Station v. Turtle Rock
Corp., 680 S.W.2d 802, 807 (Tex. 1984)).


Advisory Opinion – Hylan Harper/South Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 7, 2009 – page 9 of 13 pages
           We agree that the Town can take the development’s full impact into account and is
           not limited to considering the impact on [the] Road. But in so doing, the Town is
           nonetheless required to measure that impact in a meaningful, though not precisely
           mathematical way, and must show how the impact, thus measured, is roughly
           proportional in nature and extent to the required improvements.

Id., 135 S.W.3d at 644. The Texas court also rejected the town’s assertion that “requiring each
developer to improve abutting roadways is roughly proportional to the impact of all
developments on all roadways, and that this system of reciprocal subdivision exactions meets the
requirement of rough proportionality.” Id. (internal quotes omitted). The court rejected that
approach as unfounded. “The argument that it is fair for everyone to ‘kick in a little something’
cannot be assessed in the abstract.” Id., 135 S.W.3d at 645 (quotes in original). 23

These cases demonstrate how a development’s impact ought to be measured. A local
government may consider a development’s full impact on local services. The calculation does
not need to be limited to only those impacts directly attributable to the development activity.24
As demonstrated by the seawall in Ocean Harbor House or the subdivision in Flower Mound,
development does not occur in a vacuum. Property development, even on a small scale, impacts
local services. 25 To the extent that the impact may be measured, its costs may be borne by the
development which caused it, if the burden on the property owner is roughly equivalent to the
costs of the impact, both in nature and extent. 26

Although Dolan allows a local government to consider the full impact of development on local
services, the exaction must still be justified by some kind of individualized determination. 27
Fortunately, the Utah Supreme Court has provided some guidance on how to gauge the impact of
23
   This is an example of the “lax” approach rejected in Dolan. See Dolan, 512 U.S. at 389, see also note 16 and
associated discussion, supra.
24
   Such a strict analysis was expressly rejected in Dolan. See Dolan, 512 U.S. at 389-90; see also note 16, supra.
25
   It cannot be said that a small property development has “no impact” due to its scale. Any development activity
will cause an impact. If it is true that one new home has zero impact, then two hundred homes in a subdivision will
also have zero impact. That assumption would stymie all development, because local governments would not be
able to provide new infrastructure for all new construction. Admittedly, a single home would have less impact than
two-hundred lot subdivision, and that lesser impact would result in a smaller exaction.
26
   B.A.M. II, 2008 UT 74, ¶¶ 10-12, 196 P.3d at 603-04.
27
   The exactions evaluated in both Dolan and Flower Mound were rejected not because they weren’t roughly
proportional to the impact of the respective developments, but because the local governments failed to make the
kind of individualized determinations necessary to justify the exactions. For example, one of the exactions at issue
in Dolan was dedication of property for a pedestrian/bicycle path. The Court agreed that the path might offset some
of the traffic increase attributed to the development. However, a finding “that the bicycle pathway system could
offset some of the traffic demand is a far cry from a finding that the . . . system will, or is likely to, offset some of the
traffic demand. Dolan, 512 U.S. at 395. (emphasis in original, quotations omitted). On the other hand, the exactions
reviewed in Sparks and Ocean Harbor House were upheld, because individualized determinations supported the
exactions. See e.g. Sparks, 904 P.2d at 745. (“[L]ocal governments must make some effort to quantify its findings to
support its permit conditions.”) Those two opinions seemed somewhat deferential to the governmental entities’
findings. See also Cottonwood Heights Citizen’s Ass’n v. Bd. of Commissioners, 593 P.2d 138, 140 (Utah 1979)
(local governments are given wide latitude to make factual and policy decisions which are entitled to a presumption
of correctness and validity); Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98, ¶ 28, 104 P.3d 1208, 1216 (zoning agencies
granted broad discretion in policy and factual decisions, and interpretations of zoning ordinances also entitled to a
degree of deference).

Advisory Opinion – Hylan Harper/South Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 7, 2009 – page 10 of 13 pages
a development. In Banberry Development Corporation v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899 (Utah
1981), the court stated that fees and exactions “must not require newly developed properties to
bear more than their equitable share of the capital costs in relation to the benefits conferred.” Id.,
631 P.2d at 903. This rule is essentially the same as that adopted in Dolan and B.A.M. II, and
requires that a local government

           should determine the relative burdens previously borne and yet to be borne by
           those properties in comparison with the other properties in the municipality as a
           whole; the fee [or exaction] in question should not exceed the amount sufficient to
           equalize the relative burdens of newly developed properties.

Id. 28

The Banberry decision identified several important factors relevant to a decision

           determining the relative burden already borne and yet to be borne by newly
           developed properties. . . . (1) the cost of existing capital facilities; (2) the manner
           of financing existing capital facilities . . . (3) the relative extent to which the
           newly developed properties and the other properties in the municipality have
           already contributed to the cost of existing capital facilities . . . (4) the relative
           extent to which the newly developed properties and the other properties in the
           municipality will contribute to the cost of existing capital facilities in the future;
           (5) the extent to which the newly developed properties are entitled to a credit
           because the municipality is required their developer or owners . . . to provide
           common facilities . . . that have been provided by the municipality and financed
           through general taxation or other means . . . in other parts of the municipality; (6)
           extraordinary costs, if any, in servicing the newly developed properties; and (7)
           the time-price differential inherent in fair comparisons of amounts paid at
           different times.

Id., 631 P.2d at 903-04. These factors were eventually codified into the Impact Fees Act, and are
critical to the analysis of how “the proportionate share of the costs of public facilities are
reasonably related to . . . new development activity.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36-201(5)(c). 29

The factors expressed in Banberry are not exclusive, and “should not be read as limiting the
ability of [local governments] to deal with differing circumstances.” Home Builders Association
of Utah v. American Fork¸ 1999 UT 7, ¶ 6, 973 P.2d 425, 427. The factors are the means to
accomplish the goal of determining if a particular exaction is roughly proportional, both in nature
and extent, to the impact of the development. This should not be interpreted as requiring the
same type of involved analysis used when determining impact fees, only that the Banberry

28
   The court applied the same analysis to what is now known as “impact fees.” Banberry, 631 P.2d at 905. The
court noted that the required dedications could be fulfilled by payment of fees or by dedication of land. Id., (citing
Call v. West Jordan, 614 P.2d 1257, 1258 (Utah 1980)).
29
   See also UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36-201(5)(a), which requires analysis of specific impacts on public facilities
caused by new development, the relationship between the impacts and the development activity, and the
proportionate share of costs to public facilities that are related to the development.

Advisory Opinion – Hylan Harper/South Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 7, 2009 – page 11 of 13 pages
factors and impact fee analysis are helpful guides for a local government when balancing the
costs of assuaging an impact against the burden placed upon a property owner. Other
information may be equally relevant to the analysis, including studies which project the
anticipated use of public facilities, etc.

D. The Exactions Required of Mr. Harper

This Opinion cannot determine if the required dedications are roughly proportional to the
impacts of Mr. Harper’s proposed subdivision. There is very little data which quantifies either
the impact on the City’s facilities or the burden upon Mr. Harper. A more individualized
determination of the relative costs and burdens may or may not warrant the dedications. 30 If the
exactions are justified, the City may impose them as conditions of approval. If they are not
justified (or are only partially justified), the City may either drop the conditions altogether,
modify them, or reimburse Mr. Harper as appropriate. 31

It cannot be said that Mr. Harper’s subdivision has zero impact on the City’s services. Any
development will impact public services and infrastructure. That does not mean, however, that
any development, no matter how small, will warrant dedication and construction of roads or
sidewalks. The City must undertake an individualized determination showing how its required
exactions are roughly proportional to the impacts of the development. That determination should
take into account not only the dedications are reasonably related to the needs created by the
subdivision, but also the unique characteristics of the parcel.32

The principles and guidelines used to determine impact fees should be generally followed to
determine the measure of the impacts created by Mr. Harper’s subdivision. The individualized
determination does need to be the same sort of extensive analysis required when impact fees are
adopted, but the criteria used in the Impact Fees Act can serve as a guide. The conclusions
reached by the City are entitled to deference, as long as they are based on reasonably reliable
data, and are applicable to the unique characteristics of the subdivision.

The costs to Mr. Harper are the reasonable costs of the property to be dedicated and the costs of
constructing the improvements. That cost should be based on accurate appraisals, which reflect
the current status of the property as well as the fair market value of the property to be dedicated.
Non-economic factors, such as personal attachment to the property, or personal animus toward
the City, should not be considered in determining the market value.


30
   The City is actually asking for two dedications: A portion of property for the 2200 West roadway, and a curb,
gutter, and sidewalk. The two are adjacent, of course, and are closely related in purpose. However, they serve
different interests, and address different impacts (i.e., vehicular traffic vs. pedestrian traffic, access vs. aesthetics,
and traffic flow vs. storm water management).
31
   An exaction is not an “either/or” proposition. The “rough proportionality” analysis required of Dolan, B.A.M. II,
and the Utah Code does not prohibit “partial” exactions, where the impacts warrant only part of the required
exaction or dedication. In that case, the local government may need to bear some of the cost of the public
improvement. This Opinion does not attempt an analysis of the dedications required by the City, and therefore does
not state that those dedications are or are not fully or partially justified.
32
   For example, the parcel is extremely long and narrow. Constructing a curb, gutter, and sidewalk on such a long
parcel is an unusual burden not imposed on other parcels.

Advisory Opinion – Hylan Harper/South Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 7, 2009 – page 12 of 13 pages
                                                    Conclusion
Local governments may require dedication of property or payment of fees as conditions of
development approval. In order to be valid, such exactions must satisfy § 10-9a-508 of the Utah
Code, which codifies the Nollan/Dolan rough proportionality analysis. First, an essential link
must exist between each exaction and a legitimate government interest. Second, the exaction
must be roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact of a proposed
development. If the exaction satisfies both of these criteria, it is valid. Otherwise, the exaction
is an improper taking of private property.

The Utah Supreme Court held that “roughly proportionate” means “roughly equal.” A local
government must therefore demonstrate that the cost of assuaging the impact is roughly equal to
the cost to comply with the exaction. Cases from other jurisdictions provide some guidance as to
the kind of individualized determination necessary to justify an exaction. There must be some
effort to not only study the impacts caused by development, but quantify those impacts in terms
of public cost. Those cases appear to be deferential to the determinations made by government
entities.

As a way to measure the impacts of new development and the allocation of costs due to that
impact, local governments may follow the same guidelines used to determine impact fees. Those
guidelines, have been used for several years, and are designed to accomplish the type of rough
proportionality analysis anticipated by Dolan and B.A.M. II. This does not mean that a local
government must strictly follow the extensive impact fee analysis each time an exaction is
required of new development. However, adapting general impact fee analysis principals as a
guide satisfies the requirement of an individualized determination showing that the proposed
exaction is roughly proportional to the impact of the new development.

Due to a lack of data, this Opinion cannot determine whether the property dedications proposed
as conditions on Mr. Harper’s subdivision are valid or not. The City is obligated to present some
sort of individualized determination that the dedications are roughly proportional to the impacts
of the development. The City must use trustworthy data, as long as the information used can be
rationally applied to make a fair and accurate measure of the impacts and costs involved. The
City may use generalized studies or surveys from other cities, as long as the information is
reasonably reliable and applicable to the particular situation being studied. In like manner, the
costs and burden upon the property owner must be based on reliable information and current
market value, and not on speculative data or non-economic factors personal to the property
owner.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

Advisory Opinion – Hylan Harper/South Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 7, 2009 – page 13 of 13 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE ANN. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Anna M. West City Recorder
              South Jordan City
              1600 West Towne Center Drive
              South Jordan, UT 84095

On this ___________ Day of April, 2009, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
