                     Advisory Opinion #67
      Parties: Christopher P. Gamvroulas, Ivory Development, LLC and City of West Point
                                           Issued: May 4, 2009

                                        TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      J: Requirements Imposed Upon Development
                      R(v): Other Topics (Interpretation of Ordinances)

A development agreement’s requirement that “each dwelling unit shall not be less
than 1300 square feet” is not ambiguous, and refers to total area, not above-
ground area. The Agreement provides that a more restrictive standard will control
when there is a conflict between the Agreement and the terms of the City’s
ordinance. Since the City’s zoning ordinance requires dwelling units to have at
least 1200 s.f. above ground, that is the more restrictive requirement, and so it
controls the size of the units.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                         State of Utah
                         Department of Commerce
JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
       Governor
                         OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 GARY R. HERBERT
 Lieutenant Governor



                                         ADVISORY OPINION

       Advisory Opinion Requested by:              Christopher P. Gamvroulas

       Local Government Entity:                    West Point City

       Applicant for the Land Use Approval:        Ivory Development, LLC

       Project:                                    Residential Subdivision

       Date of this Advisory Opinion:              May 4, 2009

       Opinion Authored By:                        Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney,
                                                   Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                   Issues
       Is West Point City barred from denying Ivory’s permit application to build townhomes, where the
       Development Agreement between the parties states that dwelling units shall be a minimum 1,300
       square feet, and all dwelling units in the application are a minimum 1,300 total square feet but
       some are less than 1,300 square feet above grade? In other words, does the Development
       Agreement require dwelling units with a minimum 1,300 total square feet (including basements)
       or 1,300 square feet above grade?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
       The language in the Development Agreement is not ambiguous. The Development Agreement
       calls for dwelling units of at least 1,300 square feet, and nothing in the Development Agreement
       supports that City’s limitation that it must be 1,300 square feet above grade.

       However, the Development Agreement also contains a provision requiring that, in the case of the
       conflict between the Development Agreement and the City standards, the more restrictive
       provision apply. City standards require a minimum dwelling unit of 1,200 square feet above
       grade, a more restrictive requirement than the Development Agreement’s 1,300 total square feet.
       Therefore, the requirement of 1,200 square feet above grade applies, and the City must approve
       building permit applications that comply with that requirement.
                                                           Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-
205. The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or
other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such
a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from Christopher P. Gamvroulas on
February 18, 2009. A letter with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return receipt
requested, to Gary R. Hill, West Point City Manager, 3200 W 300 N, West Point, Utah 84015.
Mr. Hill’s name was listed on the State’s Governmental Immunity Database as the contact person
for the City. On March 17, 2009, John Anderson, City Planner for West Point City, submitted a
response to the Advisory Opinion request, which included a letter and several exhibits. In a
telephone conversation dated April 2, 2009, Chris Gamvroulas briefly discussed the matter with
the OPRO, reiterating some points previously made, and indicated that no further response on
behalf of Ivory would be necessary.

                                                          Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

      1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion dated February 18, 2009 with the Office of the
                  Property Rights Ombudsman by Christopher P. Gamvroulas, on behalf of Ivory
                  Development, LLC, with attachments.
      2.          West Point City’s response to Ivory’s request, dated March 17, 2009, with
                  attachments.

                                                         Background
Ivory Development, LLC (“Ivory”), is the developer of the Yalecrest Towns Subdivision project
(“Project”) within West Point City. On November 7, 2007, Ivory’s predecessor in interest, Ivory
Land Corporation and Solgarden LLC, entered into a development agreement titled Agreement
for Development of Land Between West Point City and Ivory Land Corporation and Solgarden
LLC (Approximately 200 South and 3000 West, East Side) (“Development Agreement”). Section
4.4.1 of the Development Agreement contains the sentence: “Each dwelling unit shall not be less
than 1,300 square feet.”




Advisory Opinion – Ivory Development / West Point City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 4, 2009 – page 2 of 9 pages
On or about October 15, 2008, Ivory applied for a permit to build a townhome building in the
Yalecrest Towns Subdivision. The application included plans for several townhome units. One of
the units featured a total livable area of 1491 square feet. Of that total, 1051 square feet is above
grade, with 440 square feet of basement space. Another townhome unit shows a total livable area
of 2065 square feet, with 1060 square feet is above grade, with 1005 square feet of basement
space.

West Point City denied Ivory’s application for a building permit. West Point indicates that the
denial arises because some of the dwelling units violate section 4.4.1 of the Development
Agreement that each dwelling unit contain a minimum of 1,300 square feet. West Point argues
that this requires dwelling units of at least 1,300 square feet above grade. In support, West Point
cites section 15.15.130(B) of the West Point City Development Code, which states that “The
minimum square footage shall mean the finished floor area above grade typically containing a
kitchen, living room, bedrooms, and bathroom. Such space is not to include an attached garage,
basement, covered patios or any type of detached structure.” West Point contends that the
minimum square footage requirement in its development code requires a calculation of only
“above grade” square footage in a minimum square footage calculation, and basement square
footage is not included. Therefore, argues the City, Ivory’s application for dwelling units of 1051
and 1005 square feet above grade is inadequate to meet the requirement imposed in the
Development Agreement.

Ivory contends that the total square footage of the dwelling units, including basements, exceeds
the 1,300 square footage requirement, and that the above-grade requirement does not appear in
the Development Agreement, and is therefore not applicable. Accordingly, Ivory contends, West
Point City is required to approve its building permit application. Ivory has requested an Advisory
Opinion from the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman to examine whether West Point City
is required to approve the request for a building permit.

                                                         Analysis
A.          Determining Ambiguity in a Contract

At issue in this Opinion is the sentence in section 4.4.1 of the Development Agreement that
states: “Each dwelling unit shall not be less than 1,300 square feet.” Ivory argues that this
sentence means “1,300 total square feet” of living space, including basement areas. West Point
City argues that this sentence means “1,300 square feet above grade,” excluding basement areas.
In support of its assertion, the City cites to the definition of “minimum square footage” contained
in 15.15.130(B) of the West Point City Development Code, which states that “The minimum
square footage shall mean the finished floor area above grade . . .”

Determining which of these interpretations prevails necessitates application of the general
principles of contract interpretation. A duly authorized development agreement is an enforceable




Advisory Opinion – Ivory Development / West Point City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 4, 2009 – page 3 of 9 pages
contract binding the developer and the local government, 1 and should be interpreted as a
contract. See Shelby D. Green, Development Agreements: Bargained-For Zoning That Is Neither
Illegal Contract Nor Conditional Zoning, 33 CAP.U.L.REV. 383, 394 (2004). No authority can be
found to indicate that a development is subject to differing rules of interpretation than any other
contract, or in particular that either party’s interpretation of the agreement is entitled to special
deference, as is the City’s interpretation of its own ordinances, 2 simply because it is a
development agreement. Conversely, courts have frequently applied normal principles of
contract interpretation to development agreements. 3

Under Utah’s well-established rules of contract interpretation, the first step to determine the
meaning and the intent of the contracting parties is to look at the language of the contract. Green
River Canal Co. v. Thayn, 2003 UT 50, ¶17. Where “the language within the four corners of the
contract is unambiguous, the parties' intentions are determined from the plain meaning of the
contractual language.” Id. Only if the language of the contract is ambiguous will courts consider
extrinsic evidence of the parties' intent. Cafe Rio, Inc. v. Larkin-Gifford-Overton, LLC, 2009 UT
6, ¶25. A contractual term is ambiguous “if it is capable of more than one reasonable
interpretation because of uncertain meanings of terms, missing terms, or other facial
deficiencies.” WebBank v. Am. Gen. Annuity Serv. Corp., 2002 UT 88, ¶20.

The Utah Supreme Court recently clarified how to determine whether a contract term is
ambiguous. In Daines v. Vincent, 2008 UT 51, the court explained that “[w]hen determining
whether a contract is ambiguous, any relevant evidence must be considered. . . . Second, after a
judge considers relevant and credible evidence of contrary interpretations, the judge must ensure
that “the interpretations contended for are reasonably supported by the language of the contract.”
Id. at ¶26 (citations omitted).

The Daines Court then goes on to clarify: “However, we did not intend that a judge allow
surrounding circumstances to create ambiguity where the language of a contract would not
otherwise permit. In other words, [extrinsic evidence] does not create a preference for that
evidence over the language of the contract.” Id. at ¶26 (citations omitted, emphasis added).
Accordingly, in determining ambiguity, a review of extrinsic evidence is appropriate simply to
see if a contract term can have more than one meaning. However, extrinsic evidence cannot
create the ambiguity. Each meaning must be supported by the plain language of the contract in
order to find an ambiguity. 4

1
  Within certain limitations. A local government cannot do by contract what it is not otherwise authorized to do. For
example, a municipality cannot bargain away its authority to make zoning decisions. A municipality’s authority to
zone is a delegation of police power received from the state. Marshall v. Salt Lake City, 105 Utah 111, 121, 141 P.2d
704 (1943). The state cannot contract away its police power. Beer Co. v. Massachusetts, 97 U.S. 25, 33 (1877).
2
  Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98, ¶18 (“We believe a better approach is that adopted by those jurisdictions
that review a local agency's interpretation of ordinances for correctness, but also afford some level of non-binding
deference to the interpretation advanced by the local agency.”).
3
  See, e.g., Fulton Greens, L.P. v. City of Alpharetta, 272 Ga. App. 459 (2005).
4
  The Court in Daines illustrated by examining the term “boot.” Extrinsic evidence would be necessary in order for a
judge to know that the term “boot” could mean either rainy-day footwear or the trunk of a British car. However, the



Advisory Opinion – Ivory Development / West Point City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 4, 2009 – page 4 of 9 pages
B.          The Development Agreement is Not Ambiguous

In applying these principles to the Development Agreement, no ambiguity is found. The
contested term, square feet, could have more than one meaning – “total square feet” or “square
feet above grade.” However, the plain language of the contract cannot by itself support the
additional limitation “above grade.” In order to interpret “square feet” as “square feet above
grade” extrinsic evidence is necessary, specifically the West Point City Development Code
and/or City Council Meeting Minutes. The language in the agreement simply says “square feet”
and nothing more. Any ambiguity is created only by the extrinsic evidence, exactly as the Daines
Court forbade. The language of the agreement itself does not support the “above grade”
limitation.

That extrinsic evidence, such as the West Point City Development Code, does indeed indicate
that the City has a preference for, and perhaps intended in the Development Agreement, that the
term “square feet” included only “above grade.” However, Daines makes clear that that
evidence outside of the four corners of the contract, cannot create the ambiguity. The ambiguity
must be supported by the contract language itself. Here the contract language is only “square
feet.” Nothing in the contract supports an “above grade” interpretation. Therefore, the meaning
of the term “square feet” in the Development Agreement can only be interpreted to mean “total
square feet.” The term is not ambiguous.

C.          The Development Code is More Restrictive, and Therefore Prevails Over the Agreement

Unfortunately, the analysis does not end with a finding that “square feet” is unambiguous and
means “total square feet.” Another rule of contract interpretation requires that meaning and effect
be given to all terms in the agreement, and all terms be interpreted in relation to other terms.
Green River Canal, 2003 UT 50 at ¶17 (“We consider each contract provision . . . in relation to
all of the others, with a view toward giving effect to all and ignoring none.”). Accordingly, terms
in the contract must be considered as a whole, and each term must be given effect.

As the City points out, section 4.7 of the Development Agreement provides:

            Conflicts. Except as otherwise provided, any conflict between the provisions of
            this Agreement and the City’s standards for improvements, shall be resolved in
            favor of the stricter requirement.

In accordance with the rules above, full effect must be given to this section and its affect upon
other contract provisions. By its plain language, this section of the Development Agreement
indicates an intent by both parties that the City’s standards for improvements would control when
they imposed a stricter requirement than the requirement in the Development Agreement.

fact that two meanings are possible does not create an ambiguity. In order for an ambiguity to be found, both
meanings must be supported by the plain language within the four corners of the contract. Accordingly, unless the
contract contains language that supports both a shoe and a car interpretation of boot, no ambiguity exists. As the
court stated, “a finding of ambiguity will prove to be the exception and not the rule.” Id. at ¶30 n.5.



Advisory Opinion – Ivory Development / West Point City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 4, 2009 – page 5 of 9 pages
As discussed above, the term “square feet” unambiguously means “square feet” without
limitation. The development agreement, then, permits a dwelling unit no less than 1,300 square
feet, basement and other areas included. The West Point City Development Code standard, found
in Section 15.15.130, states:

            A. All single-family dwellings constructed or erected in the city shall contain the
            minimum, nonstacked square footage as outlined below.

            Building Type                                Finished Minimum Sq. Ft.
            Rambler                                      1,200
            Slab on grade/crawl space                    1,200
            Bi-level                                     1,200
            Tri-level                                    1,200
            Multi-level                                  1,200
            Two-story                                    1,800 sq. ft. minimum,
                                                         10% variance between floors.
                                                         Buildings above 2,000 sq. ft.,
                                                         no minimum variance.

            B. The minimum square footage shall mean the finished floor area above grade
            typically containing a kitchen, living room, bedrooms, and bathroom. Such space
            is not to include an attached garage, basement, covered patios or any type of
            detached structure.

Accordingly, City standards require that dwelling units have a minimum of 1,200 square feet
above grade living space.

In this case, the City standard of the minimum 1,200 square feet above grade is more restrictive
than the minimum 1,300 total square feet set forth in the Development Agreement. Since we
must give meaning and effect to section 4.7 of the Development Agreement, and since that
section indicates a clear intention for the parties to be bound by the more restrictive between the
Development Agreement and the City standards, then the City standards control. Accordingly,
the City should approve building applications showing dwelling units containing at least 1,200
square feet above grade.

Ivory argues that by entering into a development agreement, the City and Ivory have agreed that
the Development Agreement should control the development, and that the City Development
Code should be superseded or at least considered waived. If the language of the Development
Agreement included a clear intention to waive or supersede the City Code, such might be given
effect, but no clear intention is found here. To the contrary, section 4.7 of the Development
Agreement, discussed above, indicates an intention by the parties to consider city standards
outside of the Development Agreement, and give them effect when more restrictive, thus
showing an intention to not disregard the City standards.




Advisory Opinion – Ivory Development / West Point City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 4, 2009 – page 6 of 9 pages
Moreover, in order for a development agreement to wholly supersede the city code, and become
the “ordinance” for the development, the city ordinances themselves would need to contain
language permitting such an action. “A municipality is bound by the terms and standards of
applicable land use ordinances and shall comply with mandatory provisions of those
ordinances.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(2). Where the city ordinances do not contain an
authorization to disregard the city code in favor of a development agreement, then such an act
cannot be done. In addition, in order for the development agreement to be given the effect of an
ordinance superseding the existing ordinance, such an action would need to be undertaken
legislatively by the City, rather than administratively, because it would require the enactment of
new law. See Bradley v. Payson City Corp., 2003 UT 16, ¶11. See also Save Beaver County v.
Beaver County, 2009 UT 8 (discussing legislative enactment of a development agreement).
There is no indication that the Development Agreement in this matter was legislatively adopted.

Section 16.05.110 of the West Point City Ordinances authorizes the West Point City Council to
enter in to a developer’s agreement: “The city council is hereby authorized to enter into a
developer’s agreement with individuals and/or entities.” However, nothing in this ordinance
indicates and intent or authorizes adopting a development agreement that supersedes or waives
the city ordinances. To the contrary, section 16.05.110 of the West Point City Ordinance contains
language to be included in the developer’s agreement that indicates that the developer is to be
bound by the requirements in the City code: “that [Developer] will fully and completely comply
with the provisions and requirements therein contained [in the Subdivision Ordinance, the
specifications and standard drawings]. Therefore, the City is not authorized to enter into a
development agreement that wholly supersedes or waives the City Ordinances.

                                                         Conclusion
The principles of contract interpretation to the Development Agreement indicate that the term
“square feet” is not ambiguous. It is not limited to “square feet above grade” and only the
interpretation “total square feet” is supported by the language of the contract.

However, the parties have agreed to be bound by the most restrictive requirements between the
Development Agreement and the City standards in the event of a conflict. A conflict exists
between the development agreement’s requirement of a minimum of 1,300 total square feet, and
the City Ordinances requirement of 1,200 square feet above grade. The requirement found in the
City ordinances is more restrictive and therefore applies.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Ivory Development / West Point City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 4, 2009 – page 7 of 9 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE ANN. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Gary R. Hill, City Manager
              West Point City
              3200 West 300 North
              West Point, UT 84015

On this ___________ Day of May, 2009, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
