                     Advisory Opinion #64
                             Parties: Leon R. Day and Sanpete County
                                         Issued: March 11, 2009

                                          TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      E: Entitlement to Application Approval (Vesting)
                      J: Requirements Imposed Upon Development
                      R(ii): Other Topics (Subdivision Plat Approval)

A county may require that the Property Owner comply with its subdivision
ordinance, because the parcel was not created by a valid subdivision. The parcel
is not exempt from subdivision regulation, even though it was originally part of a
larger parcel that predated a county’s subdivision ordinance.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
       Governor
                            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 GARY R. HERBERT
 Lieutenant Governor


                                            ADVISORY OPINION
                                Compliance With Local Subdivision Ordinances


       Advisory Opinion Requested by:                  Leon R. Day

       Local Government Entity:                        Sanpete County

       Applicant for the Land Use Approval:            Alta Terra Ranch, LLC

       Project:                                        Single Family Residences

       Date of this Advisory Opinion:                  March 11, 2009

       Opinion Authored By:                            Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney, Office of the Property
                                                       Rights Ombudsman



                                                       Issues
       I.        Does a parcel that originally qualified for an exemption from certain zoning requirements
                 still qualify for the exemption if the property description for the parcel changed after the
                 effective date of the exemption?

       II.       May the County require that a single parcel which has not been approved as a lot comply
                 with subdivision ordinances?

                                       Summary of Advisory Opinion
       The Parcel in question was once part of a larger property that did qualify as a residential lot
       under an exemption granted by the County’s Zoning Ordinances. That exemption applied to lots
       recorded prior to October 6, 1981. The Parcel’s current description was recorded after that date,
       and thus no longer applies. However, the Parcel meets the County’s requirements as a residential
       lot, so the exemption is not necessary.

       It does not appear that the Parcel was approved as a lot by the County’s land use authority. The
       Parcel is also not exempt from subdivision regulation, because it is being proposed as a
residential lot, not for agricultural purposes. Therefore, the County may enforce its subdivision
ordinance and require that the Parcel be approved as a newly-created lot.

                                                   Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-
205. The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or
other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such
a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

A request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Leon R. Day on December 31, 2008. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Claudia Jarrett, County Commission Chair for
Sanpete County. The County received the request on January 2, 2009. The County submitted a
response to the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, which was received on January 27,
2009. Replies were submitted via email by Mr. Day, which were received on February 4, 2009.
Sanpete County submitted a reply to Mr. Day’s emails on February 5, 2009.

                                                 Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.         Request for an Advisory Opinion, including attachments, filed December 31, 2008
                with the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman by Leon R. Day.
     2.         Response from Sanpete County, submitted by Ross Blackham, County Attorney,
                received on January 27, 2009.
     3.         Reply submitted by Mr. Day, received February 4, 2009.
     4.         Reply submitted by the County, received February 5, 2009.

                                               Background
Alta Terra Ranch, LLC owns about 5.5 acres of property (the “Parcel”) located northwest of
Fairview, Utah. The property has been used for agricultural production for many years. The
property is zoned Residential-Agricultural (RA2), which allows residences, and has a minimum
lot size of 1 acre. The Parcel was originally part of a 40-acre tract, which was acquired years ago
by Leon Day and his brother. That property was divided, with each brother taking 20 acres. 1 In
1980, Mr. Day split off approximately 2.35 acres from his parcel, and constructed a home. The

1
 A county road traverses Mr. Day’s parcel. A deed recorded in 1979 describes Mr. Day’s parcel as the “N1/2 of the
NW1/4 of the SE1/4 of Sec. 34, T13S, R4E, SLM LESS 2.15 ac. in County Road.” This left 18.85 acres for Mr.
Day.

Advisory Opinion – Leon Day/Sanpete County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 11, 2009 – page 2 of 6 pages
remaining 16.5 acres were used for agricultural production. This split was created by a “metes
and bounds” description on the property deeds, which were recorded with the Sanpete County
Recorder.

In October, 1981, Sanpete County adopted a zoning ordinance regulating land in unincorporated
areas within the County. The current zoning ordinance establishes six zones, but the ordinance
recognizes that parcels in existence on the effective date of the 1981 zoning ordinance may be
used for residential purposes. Each of the six sections of the County Code which regulates one
of the zoning designations carries this Note: “Any parcel recorded before October 6, 1981 and,
for development purposes, meets each of the development conditions specified within this code,
may be used for residential purposes.” (The “1981 Exemption”). As of October 6, 1981, Mr.
Day owned a 16.5 acre parcel, and the 2.35 acre homestead. The County road remained
unchanged, and occupied 2.15 acres.

In 1998, Mr. Day sold a 5.24 acre portion of the 16.5 acre parcel, again creating the lot by
recording a metes and bounds description. 2 This left Mr. Day with 11.26 acres, plus the 2.35
acre homestead. In 2000, Mr. Day transferred ownership of the 11.26 acre parcel to Alta Terra
Ranch LLC. 3 The deed recorded in 2000 for that parcel retained the original property
description, excepting the two parcels which had been split from it, and “any portion in county
road.” In 2007, Mr. Day and his brother proposed a boundary adjustment of their two parcels.
The proposal would realign the boundaries of the two parcels, leaving his brother with a 27.5-
acre parcel, and leaving 5.5 acres from Mr. Day’s original parcel, which was to be sold as a
building lot. That proposal was abandoned when the County indicated that it would not
recognize the changes to the parcels, and would not issue a building permit unless the County’s
subdivision process was followed.

The brothers did subdivide their properties in 2007, by applying for a “minor” subdivision and
getting approval from the County. This subdivision, called “Azariah Ranch,” created two 5.5
acre lots from a portion of Mr. Day’s parcel and a portion of his brother’s property. One of the
lots has been sold to a third party, and the other is owned by Mr. Day’s brother. The subdivision
shrank Mr. Day’s remaining parcel down to approximately 5.76 acres. That Parcel retains the
original parcel’s tax identification number issued by the County Assessor’s Office. The materials
submitted for this Opinion do not indicate that the remaining Parcel was approved as a lot along
with the Azariah Ranch subdivision.

Mr. Day contends that the remaining Parcel is entitled to a building permit, because it is the
remnant of the original property description which was recorded prior to October 6, 1981. The
parcel meets the minimum size for parcels in that zone (1 acre), and is suitable for residential
use. The County, on the other hand, maintains that the Parcel has been changed, and must
conform to current zoning and subdivision requirements. Specifically, the County wants Mr.
Day to receive approval for a “one-lot subdivision,” evidently to recognize and confirm the

2
  This division was apparently a “bona fide division of agricultural land for agricultural purposes,” and was thus
exempt from the County’s subdivision ordinance. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-103(48)(c)(i) (The same language
was in effect in 1998, when the sale occurred.)
3
  Mr. Day is the registered agent for Alta Terra Ranch.

Advisory Opinion – Leon Day/Sanpete County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 11, 2009 – page 3 of 6 pages
boundaries of the Parcel through a formal approval process. Mr. Day objects to that requirement,
because it imposes additional cost and difficulty on the approval process. 4

The County maintains that the Parcel is not the same lot that existed on October 6, 1981, because
since that date it has been divided and altered twice (in 1998 and 2007), and new descriptions
were recorded. Thus, the “1981 Exemption” should not apply. Accordingly, the County does not
recognize the remaining 5.76 acre Parcel as a legally-created lot. The County contends that Mr.
Day would need to follow the County’s subdivision approval process, even if the parcel is only
one lot, in order to gain approval for a building permit. The County notes, however, that there is
no dispute that Mr. Day may divide this parcel into as many as five lots, because the minimum
lot size for the current zoning designation is one acre.

                                                  Analysis
I.         The “1981 Exemption” Does Not Apply to the Parcel, Because the Current Property
           Description was Recorded after October 6, 1981.

Because the current property description for the Parcel was recorded after 1981, it does not
qualify for the exemption provided in the County’s zoning ordinance. That exemption provides
that “[a]ny parcel recorded before October 6, 1981 and, for development purposes, meets each of
the development conditions specified within this code, may be used for residential purposes.”
SANPETE COUNTY ORDINANCES, § 14.40.020. Thus, only parcels which had been recorded prior
to that date were eligible for the exemption.

In May of 2000, a quit-claim deed was recorded which described property which would include
the current Parcel. This deed transferred ownership from Leon and Lorele Day to Alta Terra
Ranch. In 2007, a portion of the property described in the 2000 quit-claim deed became part of
the Azariah Subdivision, which was approved by the County. The 1981 Exemption only applies
to parcels “recorded before October 6, 1981.” The Parcel is not eligible for the Exemption,
because although a parcel with that tax identification number existed in 1981, that parcel differed
from the Parcel that exists today. The description of the Parcel that exists today was first
recorded after 1981. Even though the Parcel includes property that was part of a parcel that had
been recorded prior to 1981, the current description of the Parcel was recorded after that date.
Thus, the Parcel is subject to the County’s current zoning ordinances. 5

The Property Owners claim that the Parcel still qualifies for the Exemption because it is the
“remnant” or “remainder” of the original property. However, this approach is not consistent with
the language of the 1981 Exemption, which only applies to parcels recorded before October,
1981. Nothing in the language of the exemption recognizes “remnants” of qualifying parcels
recorded after that date. Were it otherwise, every lot in the County that was created from a parcel


4
  The County indicates that the process may be accomplished as a “minor” subdivision, which requires fewer public
hearings.
5
  The County interprets the exemption as allowing residential uses on any parcel created prior to October, 1981,
regardless of whether it complied with size restrictions. Such parcels would still need to meet other development
conditions. If a qualifying parcel was changed after 1981, it became subject to the County’s zoning ordinances.

Advisory Opinion – Leon Day/Sanpete County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 11, 2009 – page 4 of 6 pages
that existed on October 6, 1981 would be forever eligible for the Exemption, and the County’s
zoning ordinance would be reduced to little more than an unenforceable policy statement.

Furthermore, the 1981 Exemption only provides that a qualifying parcel “may be used for
residential purposes.” The County does not question that the Parcel owned by Alta Terra Ranch
may be used for residential purposes, provided the property owners comply with the County’s
zoning requirements. In other words, the property owners do not need the 1981 Exemption in
order to obtain a building permit, because the Parcel may be able to satisfy the County’s
requirements for a residential lot.

II.        The Parcel Does not Appear to Have Been Created by a Proper Subdivision, so the
           Property Owner Must Comply with the County’s Subdivision Ordinance.

Because the Parcel does not appear to have resulted from a proper subdivision, the Property
Owner must obtain approval and recognition for the Parcel from the County’s Land Use
Authority. According to Utah State law, whenever land is subdivided, the owner must provide an
accurate plat describing the boundaries of all lots, streets, and other properties. The plat must be
approved by the local government. UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-603; see also id. § 10-9a-603
(applicable to cities). Lots which are not approved are not considered “legal,” and a local
government may require compliance. 6

The Parcel, in its current configuration, is the result of two divisions of the original property. In
1998, a portion of the original property was sold, evidently without obtaining approval from the
County. In 2007, another portion of the original property was carved off and included in the
Azariah Ranch subdivision, which was approved by the County. However, that approval appears
to have been limited to the Azariah Ranch property only, and did not include approval of the
remainder of the property (the Parcel) as a legally created lot. Since the Parcel was not approved
as a separate lot, the County may require compliance before it approves any building permits.

Since the Parcel is being proposed for use as a residential lot, it is not exempt from platting
requirements. A lot created by a division of agricultural land is exempt from plat requirements of
the Utah Code only if it: (a) Qualifies as agricultural land, (b) Meets the minimum size
requirement of local land use ordinances, and (c) Is not used and will not be used for any non-
agricultural purposes. See id. § 17-27a-605(2)(a). Mr. Day proposes to use the Parcel as a
building lot. In fact, this issue arose when he sought a building permit. This is a non-agricultural
use, and therefore, the Parcel is not exempt from plat requirements. The County may therefore
require compliance with its subdivision ordinances.




6
  See Grand County v. Rogers, 2002 UT 25, 44 P.3d 734. In that case, a property owner divided his property by
“metes and bounds descriptions” without proper subdivision approval from the county. He sold several lots, and the
deeds were recorded by the county recorder. The property owner maintained that the county could not enforce its
subdivision ordinance, because the deeds had been accepted and recorded. The Utah Supreme Court rejected that
argument, and held that the county could require compliance with the subdivision ordinance.

Advisory Opinion – Leon Day/Sanpete County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 11, 2009 – page 5 of 6 pages
                                             Conclusion
Although the Parcel was originally included in a larger lot that was recorded prior to October,
1981, it does not qualify for the exemption provided in the Sanpete County Ordinances. The
current description of the Parcel was recorded after 1981, and so the exemption cannot apply.
However, the Parcel may be used for residential purposes, so the exemption is not needed.

Since the Parcel in its current configuration does not appear to have been created by a proper
subdivision, the County may require compliance with its subdivision ordinances. Unless
exempted, a lot must be approved by a local land use authority. The Parcel appears to have been
“left over” after a subdivision was approved in 2007, but there is nothing that indicates that the
County’s land use authority also approved the Parcel. Moreover, the Parcel is not exempted from
subdivision requirements, because the use proposed is not agricultural. Because of this, the
County may require that the Parcel be approved as a newly-created lot (or it could be divided
into smaller lots). This may be carried out through the County’s “minor subdivision” process.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Leon Day/Sanpete County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 11, 2009 – page 6 of 6 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

           Claudia Jarrett
           Sanpete County Commission
           160 N. Main
           Manti, Utah 84642

On this ___________ Day of March 2009, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
