                     Advisory Opinion #52
        Parties: Kent Dunkley, Cache-Rich Association of Realtors and the City of Logan
                                      Issued: September 25, 2008

                                        TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      Q: Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures
                      R(v): Other Topics (Interpretation of Ordinances)

A local government does not forfeit the power to enforce an ordinance simply
because it has not actively enforced it in the past. Even if a violation has been
allowed for some time, the use is not validated. In order to qualify for
nonconforming use status, a property use must be established when it was
allowed in the zoning ordinance.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                           State of Utah
                           Department of Commerce
JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
       Governor
                           OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN

 GARY R. HERBERT
 Lieutenant Governor



                                             ADVISORY OPINION

         Advisory Opinion Requested by:                Kent Dunkley
                                                       Cache-Rich Association of Realtors

         Local Government Entity:                      Logan City

         Project:                                      Logan City Enforcement of Parking Strip Ordinance

         Opinion Authored By:                          Su J. Chon, Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                September 25, 2008


                                                        Issue
         Can the City enforce the ordinance prohibiting parking in the parking strip when it has not
         enforced the ordinance for some time?

         Is the use of the park strip for parking a legal nonconforming use?

                                       Summary of Advisory Opinion
         The City can enforce the long-standing ordinance prohibiting parking in the park strip. Failure to
         enforce the ordinance for a time does not cause the City to waive or forfeit its right to enforce the
         ordinance in the future.

         The use of the park strip for parking by property owners is not a legal nonconforming use. A
         legal nonconforming use must be legal when the use was established. Absent a showing of legal
         use prior to the ordinance, the use cannot qualify as a legal nonconforming use.

                                                      Review
         A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
         decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
         An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
         administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from Kent Dunkley on May 15, 2008. As
provided in statute, a letter with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return receipt
requested, to Lois Price, City Recorder, at 255 N. Main, Logan, Utah 84321. The return receipt
was signed and received on May 16, 2008, indicating that it had been received by the City.
Kymber D. Housley, City Attorney for Logan City, responded by mail on or about June 5, 2008.

                                                                   Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Kent Dunkley, and received by the
                 Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, May 15, 2008.
     2.          Letter dated June 5, 2008 from Kymber D. Housley, City Attorney for Logan City,
                 with attachments.

                                                         Statutes & Ordinances

     1.          Logan City Code, §10.52.010.
     2.          Logan City Land Development Code, §17.39.050.
     3.          Logan City Land Development Code, §17.39.140
     4.          Logan City Land Development Code, §17.59.040
     5.          Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-103(28).
     6.          Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-511.

                                                                Background
Since 1952, Logan City (the “City”) has had an ordinance in its code prohibiting the parking of
vehicles on park strips within the City (the “Ordinance”). 1 The park strip is the area between the
road and the sidewalk. It appears that, for many years, the City did not enforce the prohibition
against parking on park strips. Individual park strips were often converted to parking spaces
(allowing for perpendicular or front-in parking), in some instances with the help of the City. 2
Many property owners parked or allowed the perpendicular parking of vehicles in the park strip
area.


1
  .Logan City Code, §10.52.010. The enactment date of the Ordinance was provided in a telephone conversation by
Teresa Harris, City Recorder for Logan City. The City Recorder is “the keeper of the community archives and is
responsible for the preservation and management of official records”. See the Logan City website,
http://www.loganutah.org.
2
   Letter of Kent Dunkley, dated April 24, 2008.

Advisory Opinion Kent Dunkley, Cache-Rich Assn. of Realtors/Logan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 25, 2008 − Page 2 of 8
The City states that the issue of parking in the park strip has been ongoing because of residents’
concerns. 3 The City reports that it began addressing these issues in 1998. In 2007, after
receiving public comment, the City determined that it would make parking enforcement a
priority, and no longer allow parking in park strips. The City also decided to give the property
owners one year notice of the City’s intent to enforce the park strip ordinance. 4

Recently, the City announced that it had approved a Park Strip Renovation Plan (“Park Strip
Plan”) which was adopted by the City Council on or about May 13, 2008. The Park Strip Plan
requires that perpendicular parking spaces be removed from park strips and no more than 30% of
the front yard could be paved. 5 This would also eliminate any additional parking areas that were
not in front of the garage of a home. The Park Strip Plan provided that all property owners and
residents in single family residential areas were to be notified when the City would come into
their neighborhoods to remove gravel, pavement and/or bridges over gutters within the City right
of way. 6 The removal of the gravel, pavement and/or bridges would be at the City’s expense
paid by CDBG grant funds. The property owners would incur some expense to restore
landscaping in the park strip. 7

Initially, under the Park Strip Plan, vehicle owners would not be ticketed. 8 Parking enforcement
would begin after the City had removed bridges, paving and/or gravel from the park strip. 9
Parallel parking would be allowed on the street. Property owners would be required to apply for
permits to park on the street and compliant property owners would have the permit and
application process streamlined for them. 10 Following the removal of gutter bridges, gravel
and/or paving, the City would begin to ticket offenders parking in the park strip. 11 The Park Strip
Plan would begin in single family residential areas and would eventually be enforced in all areas
of the City, including multi-family, commercial and industrial areas. 12

Kent Dunkley, individually and on behalf of the Cache-Rich Association of Realtors
(collectively, the “Applicant”) filed this Request for Advisory Opinion questioning whether the
City had waived its right to enforce the ordinance against parking in the park strip by its failure
to enforce over the years. The Applicant also requested an opinion regarding whether the use of
the park strip for parking may constitute a legal nonconforming use.




3
  Letter of Kymber D. Housley dated June 4, 2008.
4
  It is not clear when the notice was sent to the property owners regarding the Park Strip Plan or when the one year
notice period commenced.
5
  See Park Strip Plan, Paragraph 12. Paving of other areas of a particular lot would be restricted to 50% of the back
yard and 100% of any side yards.
6
  See Park Strip Plan, Paragraphs 4 and 15; and Letter to Logan City Resident or Property Owner.
7
  See Park Strip Plan, Paragraph 8. Landscaping in the park strip is required under Logan City Land Development
Code, §§17.39.040 and 17.39.140.
8
  See Park Strip Plan, Paragraph 4.
9
  See Park Strip Plan, Paragraph 6.
10
   See Park Strip Plan, Paragraphs 3, 9, and 10.
11
   See Park Strip Plan, Paragraph 6. Parking enforcement thereafter will continue on a complaint basis.
12
   See Park Strip Plan, Paragraph 1.

Advisory Opinion Kent Dunkley, Cache-Rich Assn. of Realtors/Logan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 25, 2008 − Page 3 of 8
                                                                    Analysis
              I.          The City Has Not Waived or Forfeited Enforcement of its Ordinance
                          Prohibiting Parking in the Park Strip.

The City has not waived or forfeited its ability to enforce its Ordinance 13 prohibiting parking in
the park strip due to lack of enforcement. The City has statutory authority to “regulate the use of
streets, alleys, avenues, sidewalks, crosswalks, parks and public grounds, prevent and remove
obstructions and encroachments thereon, and provide for the lighting, sprinkling and cleaning of
the same.” UTAH CODE ANN. §10-8-11 (1953). Accordingly, the City may remove any
improvements upon its right of way that do not comply with the Ordinance.

Although it appears that the City has not enforced its prohibition against parking in the park strip
in the past, 14 the City has determined that it will begin enforcement after a notification period to
property owners. A lack of past enforcement of an ordinance by a City does not render that City
unable to enforce that ordinance in the future: “[F]ailure to enforce zoning for a time does not
forfeit the power to enforce.” Town of Alta v. Ben Hame Corp., 836 P.2d 797 (Utah Ct. App.
1992) (citing Salt Lake County v. Kartchner, 552 P.2d 136 (Utah 1976)).” 15 This is because the
failure of City employees charged with ordinance enforcement to enforce an ordinance does not
abrogate or usurp the authority of the legislature body to enact the ordinance. Kartchner, 552
P.2d at 138 (“This governmental power usually may not be forfeited by the action of local
officers in disregard of the ordinance.”). Therefore, although the ordinance has not been enforced
in the past, the ordinance remains effective as an indication of the City’s legislative intent, and
the City may enforce the ordinance in the future. 16

Moreover, the Applicant raises an issue whether the City’s enforcement of the Ordinance is
discriminatory because it focuses on certain areas of the City. If the City chose to selectively
enforce the Ordinance against certain property owners, this action could be deemed
discriminatory. However, the City has indicated in its Park Strip Plan that City will eventually
enforce the Ordinance in all areas of the City, including commercial, multi-family, and industrial.

13
   See Logan City Code, §10.52.010 regulating the use of the park strip by prohibiting parking thereon.
14
   The actual extent of enforcement of the park strip ordinance has not been established. It is unknown whether the
City has ever enforced the ordinance, whether the City enforced the ordinance for a time and then stopped
enforcement, or whether the City enforced the ordinance sporadically over time. Although none of these scenarios
are determinative to the outcome of this Advisory Opinion, it will be assumed that the Ordinance has never been
enforced by the City.
15
    These cases specifically refer to zoning provisions, and the ordinance in the present case is not a zoning
ordinance. Nevertheless, no reason can be found to prohibit extending the reasoning in these cases to the park strip
ordinance. See also Chapman v. Lincoln, 84 Neb. 534 (Neb 1909) (“T]he city [is not] stopped by reason of its failure
to enforce the ordinances in the past, or by reason of its permission of such violation, from now insisting upon a
strict observance of its ordinances.”); Tucson v. Landry, 108 Ariz. 106 (Ariz. 1972) (holding that the City was not
estopped from enforcing its ordinance against an adult business in the future because it had failed to enforce it for a
few months).
16
   In addition, under Utah law, reliance on the City’s lack of enforcement does not estop future enforcement of the
Ordinance: “Mere silence or inaction will not operate to work an estoppel.” Town of Alta. at p.15. That is not to say
that a government entity will be held completely harmless for the failure to enforce an ordinance – only that failure
to enforce an ordinance does not render that ordinance unenforceable in the future. Reliance on the failure to enforce
an ordinance must be exceptional and seems to mitigate penalties for past violations rather than prohibit future
enforcement. See generally Kartchner, 552 P.2d at 138.

Advisory Opinion Kent Dunkley, Cache-Rich Assn. of Realtors/Logan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 25, 2008 − Page 4 of 8
Assuming that the City actually does so, enforcement of the Ordinance will not be
discriminatory. The City’s failure to enforce the ordinance in the past does not waive, forfeit, or
estop the City’s ability to enforce its ordinance in the future.

              II.         The Use of the Park Strip for Parking is Not a Legal Nonconforming
                          Use of Such Property.

In order for a land use to be a legal nonconforming use, it must meet three criteria: first, the use
must have legally existed before its current land use designation; second, the use has been
maintained continuously since the time the land use ordinance changed; and third, because of
subsequent land use ordinance changes, the use does not conform to the regulations that now
govern the use of the land. See UTAH CODE ANN. §10-9a-103(28). The property owner has the
burden of establishing the existence of a legal nonconforming use. UTAH CODE ANN. §10-9a-511.
Accordingly, establishment of a legal nonconforming use must be done on a case-by-case basis.
According to the City, the Parking Strip Ordinance was enacted in 1952. In order to establish a
legal nonconforming use to park in the park strip, a resident would have to establish that prior to
1952, that resident’s park strip was used for parking, and has been used for parking continuously
since that time. Although such a showing may be possible, it will be patently difficult to do.
Nothing has been provided to establish such facts in any property. Absent evidence satisfying the
elements of UTAH CODE ANN. §10-9a-103(28), parking in the park strip does not qualify as a
legal non-conforming use. 17

                                                                 Conclusion
The City may enforce its Ordinance prohibiting parking in the park strip. The failure of the City
to enforce the Ordinance previously does not waive nor estop the City from enforcing the
Ordinance.

Because of the difficulty in establishing use of park strips for parking prior to 1952, and
continuous use of the park strip for parking since, it is unlikely that many property owners will
be able to establish that their use of the park strip for parking is a legal nonconforming use.
Absent such a showing, parking in the park strip cannot be a legal nonconforming use.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




17
   Parking in the park strip may not qualify as legal nonconforming use even if such a showing can be made.
Parking in the park strip may not be considered a “land use” that would qualify as a nonconforming use. Parking
may be an incidental use of land that is regulated under other aspects of the City’s police power. This Advisory
Opinion expresses no opinion regarding whether the parking in the park strip is a land use that would qualify for
legal nonconforming use status.

Advisory Opinion Kent Dunkley, Cache-Rich Assn. of Realtors/Logan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 25, 2008 − Page 5 of 8
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, § 13-42-205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his/her
understanding of the relevant law, he/she does not represent anyone involved in this matter.
Anyone with an interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the
advice of his or her own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive
statement of how to protect or advance his/her interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

       Lois Price
       City Recorder
       255 N. Main
       Logan, Utah 84321


On this ____th day of September, 2008, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
