                     Advisory Opinion #48
                Parties: Ensign Development and Tooele City and Tooele County
                                          Issued: July 29, 2008

                                       TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      D: Exactions on Development

Requiring construction and dedication of flood control improvements constitutes
an exaction, which must satisfy rough proportionality analysis. Flood control is an
important public interest, so there is a link between the requirement and a
legitimate governmental interest. It remains to be seen, however, if the cost of the
improvements is roughly equivalent to costs that could be incurred by the
government to address the impacts.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
       Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN

 GARY R. HERBERT
 Lieutenant Governor



                                           ADVISORY OPINION

         Advisory Opinion Requested by:              Ensign Development

         Local Government Entity:                    Tooele City
                                                     Tooele County

         Project:                                    Canyon Gate Subdivision and Middle Canyon Wash

         Opinion Authored By:                        Su J. Chon, Attorney
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:              July 29, 2008

                                                      Issue
         May local government require Developer to dedicate property and provide improvements to a
         historic flood channel as a condition for approval of a proposed subdivision?

                                      Summary of Advisory Opinion
         The City’s requirement that the Developer dedicate property and provide improvements to a
         historic flood channel as a condition for approval of a proposed subdivision is an exaction that
         must be analyzed using the “Nollan/Dolan” rough proportionality test found in §10-9a-508. The
         requirement promotes legitimate governmental interests, and thus satisfies the first part of the
         test. The City must also show, however, that the dedication is roughly equivalent to the costs
         associated with assuaging the impact attributable to the new development. Only if the cost of
         addressing the impact can be shown to be roughly equivalent to the cost imposed upon the
         developer, can the condition be considered valid.

                                                    Review
         A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
         decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
         An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
         administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
         application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
         hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from Ensign Development on June 16, 2008.
As provided in statute, a letter with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return receipt
requested, to Sharon Dawson, City Recorder, at 90 N. Main Street, Tooele, Utah 84074, and to
Marilyn K. Gillette, County Clerk, at 47 S. Main, #318, Tooele, Utah 84074. Both of the return
receipts were signed and received on June 23, 2008, indicating that it had been received by both
the City and the County. Roger Baker, attorney for Tooele City, responded by mail on or about
June 25, 2008. Wayne Jones, the Deputy County Attorney for Tooele County, responded by mail
on or about June 26, 2008. Both of the attorneys referred to a letter dated February 22, 2008 as
being responsive to the request for Advisory Opinion.

                                                                    Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Ensign Development, and received by
                 the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, June 16, 2008.
     2.          Letter dated February 22, 2008 from Roger Baker, City Attorney for Tooele City, and
                 Wayne Jones, Deputy County Attorney for Tooele County, with attachments (the
                 “February 22nd Letter”).
     3.          Letter dated June 25, 2008 from Roger Baker, City Attorney for Tooele City, with
                 attachments.
     4.          Letter dated June 26, 2008 from Wayne Jones, Deputy County Attorney for Tooele
                 County.

                                                        Statutes & Ordinances

     1.          Tooele City Code, §7-19-2(2)(d).
     2.          Tooele County, Uniform Zoning Ordinance, Chapter 13.
     3.          Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-508.

                                                               Background
Ensign Development (“Developer”) and its principal, Elyas Raigne, approached Tooele City
(“City”) regarding a proposal to develop its property, which constitutes approximately 43 acres
(“Property”). The Middle Canyon Wash (“Wash”) runs through the approximate middle of the
Property. Middle Canyon Creek and the Wash is part of a historic, natural flood channel that
traverses through both the City and Tooele County (“County”). The County undertook a flood
control study of Middle Canyon Creek. As a result of the study, the Tooele County Commission
adopted the Middle Canyon Creek Master Plan (“Master Plan”) on January 8, 2008.

The Developer has not yet filed an application with the City for subdivision approval but has met
preliminarily with City. In its meetings with the City, the Developer understood that it would be

Advisory Opinion − Ensign Development/Tooele City & Tooele County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 29, 2008 − Page 2 of 8
responsible for making some improvements to the Wash as part of the City’s and County’s flood
control measures for Middle Canyon Creek and the Wash. In its Request for Advisory Opinion,
the Developer indicated its belief that it would be responsible for a structure that would cost
approximately one million dollars. The City has indicated that there will be a City requirement
of “property dedication and channel improvements to the Wash.” 1 Both the City and the County
have indicated that no final decision has been made as to the nature of the channel
improvements. The City and County have asked the Developer to provide some alternative flood
control solutions for review and have indicated a willingness to give professional consideration
to such proposals. The City and County indicate that they do not have funding to start
improvements to Middle Canyon Creek in accordance to the Master Plan. In the Master Plan,
the County has proposed some options for funding those improvements.

In their February 22nd letter, both the City and the County have acknowledged that the City’s
requirement that the Developer dedicate land and improve the Wash constitutes an exaction. The
City and County believe that the level of improvements that will be needed will be “directly
proportional” to the amount of the land that can be developed. 2 All of the parties have agreed to
have the OPRO issue an Advisory Opinion on this issue.

                                                                    Analysis
              I.         The City’s Requirement That the Developer Dedicate Property and
                         Provide for Improvements to the Wash Is an Exaction that Must Be
                         Analyzed Under the Nolan/Dollan Rough Proportionality Test.

The City’s requirement that the Developer dedicate property and provide some improvements to
the Wash constitutes an exaction under Utah law. “Exactions are conditions imposed by
governmental entities on developers for the issuance of a building permit or subdivision plat
approval.” B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 34, 128 P.3d 1161, 1169
(“B.A.M. I”). The term “exaction” includes any condition on development, including not only
dedication of property, but also payment of money, installation of specific improvements, or
other requirements imposed by a public entity. Furthermore, the term “exaction” includes
conditions imposed by a general legislative enactment as well as those imposed by decisions or
negotiations on specific proposals. Id., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 46, 128 P.3d at 1170. Because the City is
asking that the Developer dedicate property and provide improvements to the Wash, this request
is an exaction that must satisfy the requirements § 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code.

Section 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code authorizes cities to impose exactions on new development,
and also prescribes limits on that authority:

           A county may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in a land
           use application provided that:
           (1) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
           exaction; and

1 See February 22nd letter. It is presumed that the requirement of property dedication and channel improvements will
be a valid condition because it is required by the Tooele City Code, §7-19-2(2)(d), consistent with the requirements
expressed in Utah Code Annotated, §10-9a-509(e)
2 See February 22nd letter.


Advisory Opinion − Ensign Development/Tooele City & Tooele County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 29, 2008 − Page 3 of 8
           (2) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
           impact of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-508(1). 3 The Utah Supreme Court noted that the language of this
statute was borrowed directly from the U.S. Supreme Court analyses in Nollan v. California
Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825, 107 S.Ct. 3141 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374,
114 S.Ct. 2309 (1994). See also, B.A.M. I, 2006 UT at ¶ 41, 128 P.3d at 1170. In those two
cases, the Supreme Court promulgated rules for determining when an exaction is valid under the
federal constitution’s Takings Clause. 4 This has come to be known as the Nollan/Dolan “rough
proportionality” test, and that two-part analysis is reflected in § 10-9a-508.

Recently, the Utah Supreme Court clarified the second part of the analysis under § 10-9a-508(2)
in B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2008 UT 45 (“B.A.M. II”). 5 That decision
explained that the second prong of the “rough proportionality” test “has two aspects: first, the
exaction and impact must be related in nature; second, they must be related in extent.” Id. 2008
UT 45, ¶ 10. The “nature” aspect focuses on the relationship between the purported impact and
proposed exaction. The court agreed that the approach should be expressed “in terms of a
solution and a problem . . . [T]he impact is the problem, or the burden which the community will
bear because of the development. The exaction should address the problem. If it does, then the
nature component has been satisfied.” Id.

The “extent” aspect of the rough proportionality analysis measures the impact against the
proposed exaction in terms of cost:

           The most appropriate measure is cost—specifically, the cost of the exaction and
           the impact to the developer and the municipality, respectively. The impact of the
           development can be measured as the cost to the municipality of assuaging the
           impact. Likewise, the exaction can be measured as the value of the land to be
           dedicated by the developer at the time of the exaction.

Id., 2008 UT 45, ¶ 11. The court continued by holding that “roughly proportional” means
“roughly equivalent.” Thus, in order to be valid, the cost of an exaction must be roughly
equivalent to the cost that a local government would incur to address (or “assuage”) the impact
attributable to a new development.

In order to be a valid exaction, the City’s dedication requirement must satisfy all aspects
expressed in § 10-9a-508. First, there must be an essential link between a legitimate
governmental interest and each exaction. The Tooele City Code requires that a developer who
has property within the hundred (100) year flood plain provide solutions for flooding and



3
  There is a corresponding statute applicable to counties found at § 17-27a-507 of the Utah Code.
4
  See U.S. CONST., amend V. The Supreme Court has interpreted the Takings Clause as limiting a government’s
ability to impose conditions on development. Furthermore, “[t]he Utah Constitution reinforces the protection of
private property against uncompensated governmental takings . . ..” B.A.M. I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 31, 128 P.3d at 1168.
See also UTAH CONST. art. I, § 22.
5 B.A.M. II is a second appeal of a development project that originally promulgated the “rough proportionality”

analysis in Utah in the first appeal.
Advisory Opinion − Ensign Development/Tooele City & Tooele County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 29, 2008 − Page 4 of 8
drainage issues before a subdivision can be approved. 6 The City has a legitimate interest in
controlling flooding and drainage issues. 7 Requiring the Developer to dedicate the land in the
Wash and provide for channel improvements are reasonable means of accomplishing the City’s
objectives. 8 Since the City’s legitimate interests are promoted by the requirement, the first prong
of § 10-9a-508 is satisfied.

The City must also show that the second prong of the test has been met. 9 As stated above, the
“nature” aspect of the test is expressed in terms of a problem (the impact) and a solution (the
exaction). With regard to the “nature” aspect of the test, the problem is the existence of homes
within a flood plain and the potential that those homes could be flooded. Although the precise
solution has not been established, it is presumed that the solution would help to prevent flooding
of those homes. Therefore, the exaction is related in nature to the impact of the development.

Although the City has indicated that an exaction will be imposed, the specific exaction has not
been determined. The City states that it has provided several alternatives for drainage and flood
control, and has invited the Developer to do the same. Whenever the precise exaction has been
determined, the “extent” aspect of the Nollan/Dolan analysis will require a showing by the City
that the cost of the impact and the cost of the exaction are roughly equivalent. 10 As has been
discussed, the B.A.M. II court held that the analysis must include a comparison of the costs to the
City resulting from the impact of the development against the cost to the developer to dedicate
the land and provide the channel improvements. The City’s cost is measured by the cost
necessary to meet the increased needs for flood control and stormwater drainage due to the new
development. 11 Absent an analysis of the costs, and a showing that the costs are roughly
equivalent, the exaction must be deemed invalid and cannot be imposed by the City. 12




6  Tooele City Code, §7-19-2(2)(d). Also, the Tooele County Code contains a similar provision restricting
construction in a floodway or floodplain. See Uniform Zoning Ordinance of Tooele County, §13-4.
7
   See, e.g., Call v. West Jordan, 606 P.2d 217, 219 (Utah 1980) (“As undeveloped land is improved, it is also
important that some provision for flood control be made.”).
8
  Note that the first step of the evaluation under § 10-9a-508(1)(a) does not consider whether the City’s requirement
is the only or best means for accomplishing the City’s objectives, only that the requirement be a reasonable means
of accomplishing the those objectives. As long as the “essential link” is shown, the first prong is satisfied. There
may be many other reasonable means for accomplishing the City’s objectives. Tooele City has indicated a
willingness to consider alternative means.
9
  See B.A.M. I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 39, 128 P.2d at 1169-70 (Rough proportionality analysis “include[s] the imposition of a
burden on the governmental entity to make ‘some sort of individualized determination that the required dedication is
related both in nature and extent to the impact of the proposed development’”)(quoting Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391).
10
   The decision in B.A.M. II emphasized that the cost would be determined at the time of the exaction. Therefore,
the cost of acquiring the land would be the fair market value, which is the value of the land to the developer.
However, the cost of assuaging the impact may be different than merely the cost of the land to be dedicated.
11 The cost of the impact can perhaps be calculated as the cost to provide flood control to one home (in much the

same way that impact fees are calculated), multiplied by the number of homes in the proposed development. The
costs imposed upon the developer should be roughly equivalent to that amount.
12
    The Developer indicates that it anticipates that the cost of the exaction would be approximately one million
dollars. Under this analysis, requiring the developer to expend one million dollars to provide flood control to 21 lots
(a cost of approximately $83,000 per lot) may indeed be an excessive exaction for flood control. When the City
actually imposes the exaction, it must be shown roughly equivalent as to cost. If the exaction costs more to the
Developer than the cost of assuaging the impact, the City must reimburse the difference to the Developer.


Advisory Opinion − Ensign Development/Tooele City & Tooele County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 29, 2008 − Page 5 of 8
                                                                Conclusion
The City’s condition that the Developer dedicate property in the Wash and provide channel
improvement constitutes an “exaction” under state and federal law. A local government may
impose an exaction on property development, but the exaction must satisfy the Nollan/Dolan
“rough proportionality” analysis. The requirement promotes the legitimate governmental
objective of control of flood waters. Thus, the first prong of the “rough proportionality” analysis
is met.

A recent decision from the Utah Supreme Court held that “roughly proportional” means the same
as “roughly equivalent” in nature and extent. This means that the cost to the Developer of
dedicating property and channel improvements must be roughly equal to the cost that would be
incurred by the local government to address the impact caused by new development. The City’s
condition on the development must satisfy this analysis. Absent this analysis, with a showing
that the cost of the impact is roughly equal to the cost of the exaction, the exaction cannot be
imposed.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion − Ensign Development/Tooele City & Tooele County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 29, 2008 − Page 6 of 8
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, § 13-42-205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

       Sharon Dawson, City Recorder
       Tooele City
       90 North Main Street
       Tooele, Utah 84074

       Marilyn K. Gillette, County Clerk
       Tooele County
       47 South Main, #318
       Tooele, Utah 84074


On this 29th day of July, 2008, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
