                     Advisory Opinion #74
                             Parties: Howard Western and City of Delta
                                       Issued: September 3, 2009

                                          TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      B: Conditional Uses
                      R(viii): Other Topics (Appealing Land Uses Decisions)

Utah law requires that neighboring landowners file an administrative appeal of
land use decisions within a limited time frame. Failure to file a local appeal is
failure to exhaust administrative remedies, which deprives neighboring
landowners of their right to challenge the decision in the district court.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                        State of Utah
                        Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                        OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
GREGORY S. BELL
Lieutenant Governor




                                         ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                Howard Western

      Local Government Entity:                      Delta City

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:          The KEG Company

      Project:                                      Telecommunications Tower

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                September 3, 2009

      Opinion Authored By:                          Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney,
                                                    Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                    Issues
      Did Delta City properly issue a conditional use permit and/or a building permit to construct a
      large telecommunications tower in the City’s RR1 (Rural Residential) zone?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
      The City may have violated state law and local ordinances when it issued a conditional use
      permit and/or a building permit to construct the telecommunications tower. However, Utah law
      requires that the neighboring landowners file an administrative appeal of the decisions of local
      governments within a limited time frame. Failure to file a local appeal is failure to exhaust
      administrative remedies, which deprives neighboring landowners of their right to challenge the
      decision in the district court. Mr. Western has failed to file a local appeal to the issuance of the
      conditional use permit or the building permit. Therefore, he is unable to challenge the now
      complete construction of the cell tower.

                                                   Review
      A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
      decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or
other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such
a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received on June 15, 2009 from Howard Western. A
letter with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return receipt requested, to Gregory J.
Schafer, City Recorder/Finance Director, 76 North 200 West, Delta, Utah 84624-9440. Mr.
Schafer’s name was listed on the State’s Governmental Immunity Database as the contact person
for the District. By a letter dated July 9, 2009, Gayle Bunker, Mayor of Delta City, submitted the
City’s response to the Advisory Opinion request. By a letter dated July 25, 2009, Howard
Western submitted a response to the City’s submission. On August 18, 2009, Mayor Bunker by
telephone indicated that the City had no further response.

                                                Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion dated May 20, 2009, filed with the Office of the
                 Property Rights Ombudsman by Howard Western, with attachments.
     2.          Letter from Mayor Gayle Bunker dated July 9, 2009, with attachments.
     3.          Letter from Howard Western dated July 25, 2009, with attachments.


                                               Background
Howard and Betty Jo Western (“Western”) are owners of a parcel of property in Delta, Utah.
Near their home, on property owned by the “Millard County Motor Posse,” is a chain link fenced
enclosure containing a tall (196 feet) lattice telecommunications tower (“Cell Tower”) and
accompanying electronic equipment. Mr. Western believes that the Cell Tower has been wrongly
located and constructed in violation of city ordinance.

According to the minutes of the Delta City Planning and Zoning Commission, the Commission
approved a conditional use permit to construct the Cell Tower on September 18, 2008, and
granted the permit on September 22, 2008. The Commission added two conditions on the permit;
that the equipment building be constructed in earth tone colors approved by Delta City, and that
the area be enclosed by a chain link fence. On November 11, 2008, a building permit application
was submitted to the City. Delta City issued a building permit for construction of the Cell Tower
on February 25, 2009.

According to the January 22, 2009 minutes of the Delta City Council, construction was
underway by this date, even though it appears that no building permit had issued. At that

Advisory Opinion – Howard Western/Delta City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 3, 2009 – page 2 of 7 pages
meeting, City Councilwoman Betty Jo Western, wife to Howard Western, raised the issue of the
Cell Tower being erected near her home.

The Cell Tower appears to now be fully constructed. The documents provided indicate that the
Cell Tower has been constructed in the Rural Residential zone. The Rural Residential zone does
not specifically list telecommunications towers as a permitted or conditional use. It does,
however, list as a conditional use “essential public utility and public service installations.” The
zoning code also states that the maximum height restriction within the zone is 35 feet. The Cell
Tower appears to exceed that restriction significantly. Mr. Western raises numerous other
objections to the Cell Tower construction, the Building permit process, and the conditional use
permit process, which he believes violates state statutes and local ordinances.

In the City’s response, Mayor Bunker indicates, among other things, that Mr. Western has never
filed an appeal of the planning and zoning decision to grant the conditional use permit.
Moreover, it appears that no appeal was filed against the issuance of the building permit. Mr.
Western indicates that when he, his wife Councilwoman Western, or other neighbors raised
objection to the tower, they were told by the Mayor or other city personnel that there was nothing
that they could do about it, and were not told that they could appeal. Mr. Western states that he
was not aware of the appeals process.

                                                     Analysis
I.         The Challenger Must Appeal the Decision Locally in Order to Exhaust
           Administrative Remedies and Be Eligible to Bring a Challenge to the District Court.

The Westerns raise numerous issues and facts which they claim violate Delta City zoning
ordinances and state statutes. Some appear to have merit. However, for the reasons stated below,
these violations must be properly challenged in order to be enforced by Mr. Western. As the
alleged violations have not been properly challenged, they are not addressed in this Advisory
Opinion. 1

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-802 provides that an adversely affected owner of real estate within a
municipality may bring a legal action to abate zoning violations and remove unlawful buildings.
However, under UTAH CODE § 10-9a-801, a person may not bring such an action until the person
has exhausted his administrative remedies—meaning that person has brought an appeal to the
local appeal authority under the local ordinances in accordance with UTAH CODE § 10-9a-701 et
seq. If administrative remedies are not exhausted, a court challenge to the land use decision is not
available. See Patterson v. Am. Fork City, 2003 UT 7.



1
  Mr. Western challenges the actions of the City on several bases, including but not limited to inadequate notice,
prohibited use within the zone, zoning violations with regard to height and lot size, failure to abide by conditions in
conditional use permit, conflicts of interest, failure to properly obtain a building permit, and other substantive and
procedural grounds. Had the permit decisions been properly challenged, some of these bases may have invalidated
the granting of the conditional use permit or the building permit.

Advisory Opinion – Howard Western/Delta City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 3, 2009 – page 3 of 7 pages
II.        Mr. Western Has Not Filed a Timely Appeal

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-704 states that a municipality must establish an ordinance providing a
deadline to appeal decisions by a land use authority.2 If the municipality does not establish a
deadline for appealing, then under this statute an appeal must be brought within ten days.
According to the ordinances provided, Delta City has designated the Planning Commission as the
land use authority with regard to granting or denying conditional use permits. DELTA CITY CODE
§ 12-412. Under the Delta City Code, appeals of a decision administering or interpreting a
zoning ordinance must be brought within 30 days of the date of the decision. DELTA CITY CODE §
12-335.

The Conditional Use Permit was issued in this matter on September 22, 2008. According to local
ordinance, Mr. Western had until 30 days after that decision was issued—until October 22,
2009—to appeal the granting of the permit. Failure to appeal by that time represents a failure to
exhaust administrative remedies, and an appeal to the district court is not permitted.

It could be that the Westerns were not aware of the issuance of the conditional use permit before
October 22, 2009. 3 If that were true, the very recent and similar case of Fox v. Park City, 2008
UT 85, controls. In Fox, the plaintiffs were property owners living near a lot upon which
buildings were being constructed. The building permit was issued on July 14, 2005, and
construction began soon after. Several weeks later, the neighbors noticed that the buildings
appeared to violate the height limitation provisions of the Park City zoning code.

The plaintiffs in Fox immediately reviewed the plans, found that the zoning ordinances were
being violated, and filed an appeal on January 19, 2006, but their appeal was denied because it
was not brought within ten days of the issuance of the building permit as required by the local
ordinance. The plaintiffs appealed. The Supreme Court held that “A right to appeal a decision is
meaningless, however, if the person possessing the right has no actual or constructive notice of
the decision.” Id. at ¶23. However, the Court further held that “if a party does not receive actual
notice of the issuance of the permit, the party receives constructive notice that a building permit
has been issued when construction begins.” Id. at ¶27. In other words, once construction begins,
a person is put on notice that permits have been issued. The Court further held that the person is
responsible at that time to obtain and review the permits, and determine whether to bring an
appeal. The Fox court held that the plaintiffs should have appealed within ten days of the
beginning of construction, and not after construction was nearly complete. The Supreme Court
affirmed the dismissal the plaintiff’s case.

In this case, there is no question that Ms. Western was aware of the construction of the Cell
Tower by January 22, 2009, because at the City Council meeting on that date she raises a

2
  A “land use authority” is defined in state statute as “a person, board, commission, agency, or other body designated
by the local legislative body to act upon a land use application.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-103(22). Thus, a land use
authority is the person designated in local ordinance to act upon a land use application. The issuance of a conditional
use permit and the issuance of a building permit are both land use decisions, and the person designated to make
those decisions is the land use authority under this statute.
3
  The Westerns have not claimed that they lacked notice of the issuance of the Conditional Use Permit.

Advisory Opinion – Howard Western/Delta City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 3, 2009 – page 4 of 7 pages
concern that construction has begun. Even assuming that date was the earliest date that the
Westerns were aware of the issuance of the Conditional Use Permit, no appeal was brought
before the thirty days after this date. Moreover, it should be pointed out that the Westerns had an
additional opportunity to appeal after construction began. The building permit was issued on
February 25, 2009. A building permit is a land use decision that can be appealed. The Westerns
could have appealed the issuance of the building permit within 30 days after it was issued, but
failed to do so. 4 Because they failed to appeal, the Westerns have not exhausted their
administrative remedies. They are therefore unable to challenge the issuance of the conditional
use permit or the building permit in the district court.

                                                Conclusion
The Westerns have failed to file a local appeal to the issuance of the conditional use permit or the
building permit. Utah courts strictly uphold the requirement that administrative remedies be
exhausted. Despite the fact that there may be legal and procedural problems with the issuance of
the permits and the construction of the Cell Tower, the Westerns may not challenge those permits
in the District Court.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




4
  It is of no consequence that the Westerns did not know of their appeal rights, or that they were told by City
personnel that nothing could be done. The Fox court places the responsibility to determine whether to appeal upon
the landowner. See id. at ¶34. Moreover, it is likely that a court would assume that Ms. Western was aware of the
appeal process, or at least the availability of an appeal, due to her position as a city councilperson.

Advisory Opinion – Howard Western/Delta City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 3, 2009 – page 5 of 7 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Gregory J. Schafer
              City Recorder/Finance Director
              76 North 200 West
              Delta, Utah 84624-9440

On this 3rd day of September, 2009, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
