                       Advisory Opinion #3
                            Parties: Brad Richards and Morgan County
                                          Issued: July 10, 2006

                                       TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      K: Compliance with Mandatory Land Use Ordinances

If a county ordinance requires compliance with the county’s general plan, any part
of the approval that does not comply with the general plan is invalid. A final
decision of a land use authority or appeal authority is valid if the decision is
supported by substantial evidence in the record and is not illegal.
                                                      .




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Utah Department of Commerce
160 East 300 South, Second Floor
Salt Lake City, UT 84111
Tel. 801-530-6391



                                  Advisory Opinion

Advisory Opinion Requested by:              Brad Richards and others
Local Government Entity:                    Morgan County
Applicant for the Land Use Approval:        Gardner Cottonwood Creek LLC
Project:                                    Cottonwoods PUD Overlay District
Date of this Advisory Opinion:              7-10-06

Issue: Does the application of the Cottonwoods at Mountain Green PUD Overlay
District Development comply with the requirements of the Morgan County Land
Use Ordinances?

Review:

The request for an advisory opinion in this matter was received by the Office of the
Property Rights Ombudsman on Friday, May 5, 2006. A letter with the request and all
the attachments included was sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to Morgan
County on May 9, 2006. The letter was addressed to Craig Fisher, Commissioner at the
address shown on the Governmental Immunity Act Database at the Utah State
Department of Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code as required
by statute. A copy of the letter was also sent to Stacy Lafitte, the Morgan County
Recorder. A copy of the request and all attachments was also sent to Rulon Gardner, the
registered agent of Gardner Cottonwood Creek, LC, as shown on the records of the
Division of Corporations and Commercial Code at the Utah Department of Commerce, at
the address shown on those records. These letters were sent certified mail, with return
receipt requested, and all were received by the County and by the company on May 10,
2006.

On May 18, 2006 I spoke with Sherrie Christensen, the County Planner, and on May 11,
2006, with Jann Farris, the County Attorney, each of whom advised me that the County
Council had approved my proceeding to prepare the opinion from the Office of the
Property Rights Ombudsman. I also spoke with Cathy James on May 11, 2006 and Brad
Richards at about the same date, who also consented to my preparing the opinion. On
May 11 I also spoke with LaMont Richardson, representing Gardner Cottonwood Creek
LLC, who agreed to have me proceed. My decision to proceed with the preparation of


                                           1

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
the opinion was made on May 18, 2006 and the parties were notified of that decision via
a letter dated May 22, 2006

Prior to the preparation of this opinion, I visited via telephone several times with Cathy
James, the attorney who jointly prepared the request for an advisory opinion with the
person making the request, Brad Richards. I also met with Jann Farris, Morgan County
Attorney and with Sherrie Christensen, Morgan County Planner, in Morgan on June 2,
2006, where they made available to me a number of documents related to the project
which is the subject of this opinion. In order to properly analyze the facts and issues, I
made a second trip to Morgan to again review the files on June 13, 2006 and again on
June 27, 2006. I also had conversations prior to writing this opinion with Rulon Gardner,
principle of Gardner Cottonwood Creek LLC and LaMont Richardson and Robert
McConnell of Parr Waddoups, the attornies for the LLC. Numerous emails were
exchanged in the process of preparation, each of which was circulated to all those
individuals mentioned and copies of which are in the file at the Office of the Property
Rights Ombudsman.

The following documents were reviewed by the author prior to completing this advisory
opinion:

   1.      Morgan County Ordinances:
           a. Title 16, Chapter 6, Section 230 – Powers and Duties of the Board of
               Appeals
           b. Title 16, Chapter 6, Section 240 – Appeals.
           c. Title 16, Chapter 8 – Code Amendment, Document, Submission, Review
               Procedures and Process Steps
           d. Title 16, Chapter 35 – Planned Unit Development (PUD) Overlay Zone.
   2.      Morgan County General Plan, including a section entitled Mountain Green
           Area Plan.
   3.      Morgan County Council – Staff Report, April 18, 2006 – Request: Approval
           of Development Plan, Development Agreement & Preliminary Plat, Phase II,
           Cottonwood Hills (draft overlay ordinance).
   4.      Proposed ordinance – Chapter 49 – PUD OVERLAY DISRICTS (PUD),
           COTTON WOODS PUD OVERLAY DISTRICT. Undated version provided
           on June 13, 2006 by the Morgan County Planner, Sherrie Christensen
   5.      Proposed agreement – Development Agreement for the Cottonwoods at
           Mountain Green, Morgan County, Utah. Version dated 6/12/06.
   6.      pdf document showing a map of the Mountain Green area of Morgan County
           with the approximate locations of the residences of each of the individuals
           who joined in filing an appeal of the Morgan County Council’s decision
           approving a preliminary plan for the Cottonwoods development to the Morgan
           County Board of Appeals. Map provided by Sherrie Christensen, the Morgan
           County Planner with an attached note indicating that the County Engineer had
           prepared the map.

                                            2

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
   7.       Brief of Appellants, Before the Morgan County Board of Appeals, Appellants
            Brad Richards and others, dated May 3, 2006 and attached to the Request for
            an Advisory Opinion in this matter. The brief includes 21 attachments. A
            copy of the entire document was provided to the other parties with the original
            request for an advisory opinion, mailed to the parties as noted above on May
            9, 2006.
   8.       County Staff Response to Brad Richards Appeal. Undated thirteen page
            summary provided by Sherrie Christensen, Morgan County Planner to me on
            June 20, 2006. Electronic copies were provided to the parties noted above on
            that same date via email.
   9.       Letter dated May 9, 2006 to the Morgan County Board of Appeals from Parr
            Waddoups Brown Gee & Loveless, Attorneys for Gardner Cottonwood Creek
            LC. This letter is also a response to the Brief of Appellants.
   10.      Letter dated May 24, 2006 to the Morgan County Board of Appeals from
            Robert McConnell, Parr Waddoups Brown Gee & Loveless, Attorneys for
            Gardner Cottonwood Creek LC. This letter challenges the jurisdiction of the
            Morgan County Board of Appeals to hear the appeal.

Assumed facts:

   1.       The proposed Cottonwoods PUD Development (referred to in the documents,
            minutes and correspondence by several names, but herein referred to as the
            PUD) involves approximately 1036 acres of land in Morgan County.
   2.       Before proceeding with development in the format proposed by the developer,
            Gardner Cottonwood Creek LC, Morgan County must approve a concept plan,
            an overlay ordinance, and a development agreement.
   3.       The Morgan County Council granted preliminary approval for the
            Cottonwoods concept plan on April 18, 2006.
   4.       Brad Richards and others filed an appeal to the Morgan County Board of
            Appeals on May 3, 2006, claiming that the preliminary approval by the
            Council did not comply with mandatory provisions of the Morgan County
            ordinances and asking the Board of Appeals to reverse the Council’s decision.

Analysis:

In previous commentaries distributed to the parties involved in the preparation of this
advisory opinion, I have provided the background analysis completed by which I came to
the conclusion that some of the persons who filed the appeal of this matter to the Morgan
County Board of Appeals had standing to do so. I also prepared and circulated
commentaries concluding that the Board of Appeals can properly hear the kind of issues
that are raised in the appeal if that appeal is timely brought. Those commentaries are not
a part of this advisory opinion.



                                             3

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
Brad Richards, who requested this opinion, asks only whether or not the Council erred in
granting preliminary approval for the PUD on April 18, 2006.

Is the Current Issue Legislative or Administrative?

There is some confusion in my mind as well as others in the land use arena in exactly
what is an administrative decision and what constitutes a legislative decision in the land
use context. This issue is pivotal, for there are different standards that a court or the
Board of Appeals should use in determining if the decision by a local land use authority
will be upheld.

When a legislative body makes legislative decisions it has very broad discretion. Its
decisions will rarely be overturned on appeal, and the appeal is not to a Board of Appeals
but to the District Court. The Board of Appeals only hears appeals from decisions
applying or interpreting the ordinance, not from decisions creating the ordinances in the
first place or amending them. Bradley v. Payson City Corp., 2003 UT 16, at para. 13.

A legislative decision by the Council will be upheld by the courts if it is “reasonably
debatable that the decision could promote the general welfare.”

       This court has long recognized that municipal land use decisions should be upheld
       unless those decisions are arbitrary and capricious or otherwise illegal. Gayland v.
       Salt Lake County, 11 Utah 2d 307, 358 P.2d 633, 636 (Utah 1961) ; Marshall v.
       Salt Lake City, 105 Utah 111, 141 P.2d 704, 709 (Utah 1943) . Indeed, municipal
       land use decisions as a whole are generally entitled to a "great deal of deference."
       Springville Citizens for a Better Cmty. v. City of Springville, 1999 UT 25, P23,
       979 P.2d 332 . However, in specific cases the determination of whether a
       particular land use decision is arbitrary and capricious has traditionally depended
       on whether the decision involves the exercise of legislative, administrative, or
       quasi-judicial powers. When a municipality makes a land use decision as a
       function of its legislative powers, we have held that such a decision is not
       arbitrary and capricious so long as the grounds for the decision are "reasonably
       debatable." Marshall, 141 P.2d at 709 (reviewing municipal zoning decision as
       legislative function and employing reasonably debatable standard); Smith Inv. Co.
       v. Sandy City, 958 P.2d 245, 252 (Utah Ct. App. 1998) (same). When a land use
       decision is made as an exercise of administrative or quasi-judicial powers,
       however, we have held that such decisions are not arbitrary and capricious if they
       are supported by "substantial evidence." Xanthos v. Bd. of Adjustment of Salt
       Lake City, 685 P.2d 1032, 1034-35 (Utah 1984) (reviewing board of adjustment
       decision as an administrative act and employing substantial evidence standard).

Bradley v. Payson City Corp., 2003 UT 16, P10. The Supreme Court has also stated that
“because a ‘zoning classification reflects a legislative policy decision,’ we will not
interfere with that decision ‘except in the most extreme cases.’” Harmon City v. Draper,

                                             4

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
2000 UT App 31 at P18. This broad discretion by legislative bodies would not apply to
administrative acts.

Sometimes the lines between administrative acts and legislative acts become thin. Even
the courts have expressed frustration over being forced to make the call as to what is
legislative and what is administrative:

       Although the legislative-administrative distinction is difficult to apply in almost
       any context, it is especially so in connection with zoning enactments, which
       involve an unending variety of factual circumstances and relate to peculiarly local
       matters.

See J.R. Kemper, Annotation, Adoption of Zoning Ordinance or Amendment Thereto as
Subject of Referendum, 72 A.L.R.3d 1030 § 2, at 1035 (1976), quoted in Mouty v. Sandy
City, 2005 UT 41 at footnote 9.

The courts have had no problem, however, making a distinction between the procedural
requirements of the ordinance adoption process and the pure policy aspects of legislation.
In striking down legislative decisions because the process of adopting an ordinance did
not comply with mandatory provisions of the local laws or state statute, there is no
mention of legislative deference. These rules are akin to administrative in nature, and if a
legislative body does not comply with the mandatory rules for deliberation, the resulting
ordinance will be struck down on procedural bases alone. Citizens Awareness Now v.
Makaris, 873 P.2d 1117.

The Morgan County ordinances include very strict language about the necessity of
compliance with the General Plan in the review and approval of PUD Overlay Zone
Amendments. For example: “All PUD applications must strictly comply with the
Morgan County General Plan” Morgan Land Use Ordinance, 16-35-07. “The governing
body may grant conditional approval of a PUD overlay zone amendment if it finds and
cites to specific provisions demonstrating that the application is in accord and consistent
with the General Plan and with the policies and provisions of the PUD.” Morgan Land
Use Ordinance, 16-35-07(6).

Inasmuch as these requirements appear to be similar to procedural limits on the process
of approving ordinance changes, they must be complied with in order for an ordinance to
be valid once adopted. They also involve decisions made in the “application or
interpretation of the ordinance” so those decisions can be properly appealed to the Board
of Appeals, even though legislative decisions cannot. If the Council wishes to avoid
these strict requirements, all it need do is to pass an ordinance eliminating or amending
them. Absent such legislative action to remove these administrative impediments to the
process, those requirements are valid and would control the adoption of a PUD overlay
zone, even though the ultimate result of that adoption would indeed be a legislative act.


                                             5

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
This is consistent with Utah case law. In Springville Citizens v. City of Springville, the
court reviewed a local decision involving a PUD issue that “adopted an ordinance” and
“amended the zoning map” but still considered the process administrative. The court
overturned the PUD approval in that case because the city did not comply with the
mandatory provisions of its own ordinances, even in the process of making a legislative
decision.

       In the case at bar, the undisputed facts demonstrate that the City's decision was
       not arbitrary or capricious but was the result of careful consideration and was
       supported by substantial evidence. Of significant import, consideration of the
       P.U.D. spanned nearly a year and a half and involved more than a dozen separate
       meetings wherein public input was heard, objections voiced, and modifications to
       the P.U.D. imposed. Although certain materials were not timely submitted, the
       majority of the required documentation was before the planning commission and
       the city council when the P.U.D. ultimately was approved. That documentation, as
       well as the other evidence before the commission and the council, supported
       approval of the P.U.D. Moreover, throughout the approval process and in an effort
       to meet the P.U.D. requirements, the city council required Peay to satisfy
       numerous conditions concerning the proposed development, all of which Peay
       eventually fulfilled. In short, the undisputed evidence reveals without question
       that substantial evidence supported the City's decision and that a reasonable
       person could have reached the same decision as the City. We conclude, therefore,
       that the City's decision to approve the P.U.D. was not arbitrary or capricious.

       This conclusion does not end our inquiry, however. Under Utah Code Ann. § 10-
       9-1001(3)(b), we must also determine whether the City's decision was illegal.
       Plaintiffs argue convincingly that the City's decision to approve the P.U.D. was
       illegal because the City violated its own ordinances during the approval process.
       Plaintiffs highlight that compliance with the city ordinances at issue was, under
       the City's own legislatively enacted standard, mandatory. Plaintiffs point to
       Springville City ordinance 11-10-101, which states, "For purposes of this Title,
       certain words and terms are defined as follows: . . . (4) Words 'shall' and 'must' are
       always mandatory." (Emphasis added.)

       Title 11 of the Springville ordinances, entitled "Development Code," details the
       procedures and requirements for P.U.D. approval, including those that plaintiffs
       contend the City violated. Those procedures and requirements, as indicated in the
       ordinances quoted above, frequently are prefaced by the words "shall" and
       "must." Thus, according to the City's own rule of interpretation, compliance with
       the P.U.D. procedures and requirements containing these words was mandatory.

       In its ruling granting summary judgment in favor of the City, the district court
       appeared to recognize the mandatory nature of the city ordinances but concluded
       nonetheless that substantial compliance with those ordinances was sufficient. In

                                             6

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
       fact, one of the express legal principles upon which the district court premised its
       ruling was that "the city's actions approving the PUD must be upheld if those
       actions are in substantial compliance with the city's ordinances."

       The district court's use of the substantial compliance doctrine in the face of
       ordinances that are expressly mandatory was erroneous. While substantial
       compliance with matters in which a municipality has discretion may indeed
       suffice, it does not when the municipality itself has legislatively removed any
       such discretion. The fundamental consideration in interpreting legislation,
       whether at the state or local level, is legislative intent. See Board of Educ. v. Salt
       Lake County, 659 P.2d 1030, 1030 (Utah 1983). Application of the substantial
       compliance doctrine where the ordinances at issue are explicitly mandatory
       contravenes the unmistakable intent of those ordinances.

       Municipal zoning authorities are bound by the terms and standards of applicable
       zoning ordinances and are not at liberty to make land use decisions in derogation
       {979 P.2d 338} thereof. See Thurston v. Cache County, 626 P.2d 440, 444-45
       (Utah 1981). The irony of the City's position on appeal is readily apparent: the
       City contends that it need only "substantially comply" with ordinances it has
       legislatively deemed to be mandatory. Stated simply, the City cannot "change the
       rules halfway through the game." Brendle v. City of Draper, 937 P.2d 1044, 1048
       (Utah Ct. App. 1997). The City was not entitled to disregard its mandatory
       ordinances. Because the City did not properly comply with the ordinances
       governing P.U.D. approval, we conclude that under Utah Code Ann. § 10-9-
       1001(3)(b) , the City's decision approving the P.U.D. was illegal.

Springville Citizens v. Springville, 1999 UT 25, P25-30. Thus, if the County’s actions are
clearly not in compliance with mandatory provisions of the ordinances, they will be
overturned in the courts. Where the violation is clear, the result would be clear, but there
is not always a bright line between compliance and noncompliance. In the Springville
case, there were clear mile markers along the way to approval. In the current matter,
however, what we have to consider is a mandatory provision requiring compliance with
the general plan. This is clearly an administrative act, as the Supreme Court held in a
subsequent case brought in response to some broad language in the Springville Citizens
case. In Bradley v. Payson City, 2003 UT 16, the Court held that the issues in the
Springville case were clearly administrative, even though they involved the adoption of a
PUD and changing the zoning map. This is so because it was not the policy issue that
was challenged in Springville Citizens, but whether or not the city had complied with the
mandatory provisions of its own ordinances.

It is easy to determine that compliance with the general plan is therefore essential if the
County’s action to approve the PUD is to be upheld. The hard issue is to determine
whether that compliance has occurred.


                                              7

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
Standard of Review

This leads us to the guidelines the courts have set up to interpret the ordinances and the
general plan. In Springville Citizens, the issues were clear. The ordinance required
specific acts and those acts were not performed in the process of reviewing a PUD. In
this case, however, the lines are not so clearly drawn. The County ordinance here
demands compliance with a document that is open to much more interpretation, in that it
embodies some specific requirements and some statements of general policy and intent.
We are therefore left to make some judgment calls on what compliance is and is not.

In interpreting and applying the ordinances the standard is:

       A municipality's land use decisions are entitled to a great deal of deference. See
       Xanthos v. Board of Adjustment, 685 P.2d 1032, 1034 (Utah 1984); Triangle Oil,
       Inc. v. North Salt Lake Corp., 609 P.2d 1338, 1339-40 (Utah 1980); Cottonwood
       Heights Citizens Ass'n v. Board of Comm'rs, 593 P.2d 138, 140 (Utah 1979);
       Naylor v. Salt Lake City Corp., 17 Utah 2d 300, 410 P.2d 764 (Utah 1966).
       Therefore, "the courts generally will not so interfere with the actions of a city
       council unless its action is outside of its authority or is so wholly discordant to
       reason and justice that its action must be deemed capricious and arbitrary and thus
       in violation of the complainant's rights." Triangle Oil, 609 P.2d at 1340. Indeed,
       the statute that forms the basis of this appeal requires the courts to "presume that
       land use decisions and regulations are valid." Utah Code Ann. § 10-9-1001(3)(a) .
       However, this discretion is not completely unfettered, and the presumption is not
       absolute. If a municipality's land use decision is arbitrary, capricious, or illegal, it
       will not be upheld. See id. § 10-9-1001(3)(b).

Springville Citizens v. Springville, 1999 UT 25, P23.

       Our "primary goal in interpreting statutes is to give effect to the legislative intent,
       as evidenced by the plain language, in light of the purpose the statute was meant
       to achieve."

Foutz v. City of S. Jordan, 2004 UT 75, P 11, 100 P.3d 1171 (internal quotation omitted).
Cited in Mouty v. Sandy City, 2005 UT 41.

       The courts shall:
       (i) presume that a decision, ordinance, or regulation made under the authority of
       this chapter is valid; and
       (ii) determine only whether or not the decision, ordinance, or regulation is
       arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.
       (b) A decision, ordinance, or regulation involving the exercise of legislative
       discretion is valid if the decision, ordinance, or regulation is reasonably debatable
       and not illegal.

                                              8

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
       (c) A final decision of a land use authority or an appeal authority is valid if the
       decision is supported by substantial evidence in the record and is not arbitrary,
       capricious, or illegal.
       (d) A determination of illegality requires a determination that the decision,
       ordinance, or regulation violates a law, statute, or ordinance in effect at the time
       the decision was made or the ordinance or regulation adopted.

Utah Code Ann. 17-27a-801(3)(a). In determining whether the “decision, ordinance or
regulation” violates existing law, the courts have given the following guidelines:

       To resolve conflicts in interpretation of statutes or ordinances, we look to well-
       settled rules of statutory construction. First, "in cases of apparent conflict between
       provisions of the same statute, it is the Court's duty to harmonize and reconcile
       statutory provisions, since the Court cannot presume that the legislature intended
       to create a conflict." Madsen v. Brown, 701 P.2d 1086, 1089-90 (Utah 1985).

       Further, "a provision treating a matter specifically prevails over an incidental
       reference made thereto in a provision treating another issue, not because one
       provision has more force than another, but because the legislative mind is
       presumed to have stated its intent when it focused on that particular issue." Id. at
       1090.

Bennion v. Sundance Development, 897 P.2d 1232 (Utah 1995). These citations clearly
indicate that the courts will give deference to local government entities where that is
appropriate.

There is another context, however, where local discretion is limited in Utah
jurisprudence:

       "In interpreting the meaning of . . . ordinance[s], we are guided by the standard
       rules of statutory construction." Brendle v. City of Draper, 937 P.2d 1044, 1047
       (Utah Ct. App. 1997). However, "because zoning ordinances are in derogation of
       a property owner's common-law right to unrestricted use of his or her property,
       provisions therein restricting property uses should be strictly construed, and
       provisions permitting property uses should be liberally construed in favor of the
       property owner." Patterson v. Utah County Bd. of Adjustment, 893 P.2d 602, 606
       (Utah Ct. App. 1995). We first look to the plain language of the ordinance to
       guide our interpretation. See Brendle, 937 P.2d at 1047. Only if the ordinance is
       ambiguous need we look to legislative history to ascertain legislative intent. See
       id.

Brown v. Sandy City Board of Adj., 957 P.2d 207. Based on these guidelines, a third
party has an uphill battle to challenge local decisions where the city or county has made a
land use decision. The courts will “seek to uphold” local discretion. Where there is real

                                             9

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
ambiguity, issues in conflict will be resolved “in favor of the property owner.” It would
seem that the third parties “bring up the rear” in Utah’s land use jurisprudence.

This is not to say that neighbors and others challenging local decisions always lose.
Some prominent cases, including the Springville Citizens case, indicate otherwise. But
for our present purposes, we will discuss the challenges to the County’s review of the
PUD with these guidelines in mind:

   1.        The County’s approval must conform to the provisions of the General Plan.
   2.        If any part of the approval clearly does not comply with the General Plan, the
             approval is therefore invalid.
   3.        If the provisions of the General Plan or the PUD proposal are not clear and the
             issue of compliance is one of interpretation, then the County will be given the
             benefit of the doubt under the precedents above so long as the interpretation
             used by the County is logical and reasonable.
   4.        Where ambiguities exist, the County also has a duty to resolve ambiguities in
             favor of the property owner.

Issues raised in the appeal:

Issue 1. The size limits on a neighborhood

Appellant:

The subdivision breaches the very essence of General Plan principles based on a system
of residential development inside Town, Village, and Neighborhood centers, and rural
density outside these centers. The County Council erred in granting approval to this PUD
application as it does not conform to the 3000 ft. Neighborhood center as required by the
General Plan.

Applicant:

The General Plan is only referred to by reference and is overridden by the more specific
provision of the Overlay Ordinance. The Development Documents involve a grant of
density that is the real issue the appellants are challenging. The Overlay Ordinance
clearly makes the 3000 foot radius inapplicable and other provisions of ordinances
supercede it.




                                             10

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
Staff:

The Wilkinson Farm neighborhood is to be located by the physical constraints analysis of
MPDR. MGAP Policy 5.14 states that development shall “generally” be accomplished
according to the Neighborhood pattern to be designated on a Future Land Use Map. The
General Plan does not mandate a RR20 density in neighborhoods. The applicant has
vested rights to the current zoning densities.

Analysis:

The General Plan Controls – see Amendment – Policy 2.1.3: “the general plan
provisions, including goals, policies and objectives, contained in chapters 1 through 9
herein, shall prevail and control to the extent that such provisions may be inconsistent
with provisions contained in the six area plans.”

The goal in interpreting ordinances is to avoid inconsistencies. While the area plan
provides for some flexibility in the configuration on the Future Land Use Map, it does not
state on its face that this means that the more limiting definitions in the General Plan are
to be superceded.

The provisions in Policy 3.1.2 identifying the Wilkinson Farm as to be “located by
constraints analysis/MPDR” does not specifically override the more specific provisions
of the neighborhood definition in Policy 3.1.5.5. The limit of an approximate distance of
3000 feet from the designated center is not inconsistent with other provisions of the
General Plan and need not be disregarded to achieve the flexibility other policies and
goals advance.

What is at issue, however, is whether the General Plan prohibits what the County has so
far approved in preliminary reviews. Because of the deference paid to local officials by
the court, I would conclude that the violation of the General Plan must be clear in order
for a court to overturn local decisions and impose its judgment on local land use
decisions. As stated above, sometimes the lines between administrative decisions and
legislative decisions become blurred. I cited the Harmon case, where the court said that
it would interfere with issues of policy “only in the most extreme circumstances.” My
personal prediction would be that this particular issue is so muddled with claims about
good policy and legislative intent that a court would simply refuse to draw bright lines
that would result in a finding that the local legislative body violated its own policy
documents unless that conclusion is clearly and obviously mandated by the MCGP.

I have been advised by the County staff that there are several occasions where
neighborhoods exist and have been approved that are contiguous, and that the 3000 foot
radius requirement results in not scattered, autonomous neighborhoods, but identifiable
centers every 3000 feet within the development pattern. If neighborhoods can border
each other, then I would conclude it is not a stretch of the intent of the General Plan to

                                            11

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
have neighborhoods border rural cluster development. If the MCGP can be reasonably
read to allow the development as the Council has approved it, then a court will not
overturn that interpretation of the General Plan under the statutory provision cited above
directing the court to “presume that a decision, ordinance, or regulation made under the
authority of this chapter is valid.”

Conclusion:

The LUMC requires compliance with a written document (the MCGP), not the
sentiments that may have been behind it which are not clearly stated as mandates in its
terms and provisions. As stated above, in interpreting the language of local ordinances,
the "primary goal in interpreting statutes is to give effect to the legislative intent, as
evidenced by the plain language, in light of the purpose the statute was meant to
achieve." Where there is no plain language requiring specific mandates on development,
the discretion of the legislative body to apply the General Plan to a given application will
be upheld.

The total length of the proposed Wilkinson Farm development does not clearly violate
the General Plan. The General Plan does not specifically prohibit the location of clusters
that border neighborhoods, and a court would not read the plan so precisely as to overturn
the legislative judgment of the Planning Commission and County Council, who wrote the
General Plan, in interpreting its provisions and mandates.

Issue 2. Density and boundary requirements

Appellant:

A center (such as a neighborhood center) must have a “well-defined development edge”
as per MCGP Policy 3.1.8. and be surrounded by rural densities.

Applicant:

The Neighborhood is established by the Overlay Ordinance, and looking at the
Cottonwoods as a whole, it has a well-defined development edge.

Staff:

The “well defined development edge” issue is inapplicable to neighborhoods. MCGP
Policy 3.1.8 refers to town centers and village centers, not neighborhoods. Policy 5.16 of
the MGAP refers to commercial centers. There is no requirement that the area around a
neighborhood be maintained in rural densities.




                                             12

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
Analysis:

Prior decisions made in the designation of zoning districts and the intent of legislative
decisions made before the current decision would not govern the legality of future
legislative acts without specific linkage in the relevant ordinances. A court would not go
beyond the LUMC and the MCGP to consider legislative history unless there was some
clear ambiguity to be resolved. In this density and boundary requirements issue, there is
not.

The definition of “center” as used in the MCGP at Policy 3.1.8 probably refers to villages
and towns, not neighborhoods. See, for example, policy 3.1.8.14 indicating that
“centers” have public space such as a church, school, or park. This is ambiguous and will
be resolved “in favor of the property owner.”

The pattern of approvals cited by the appellant indicates a series of consistent decision
over the size of neighborhoods, but not, as the narrative indicates, the application of
development edge requirements on neighborhoods.

Conclusion:

The proposed PUD is a neighborhood, not a town or village center, and the requirements
for a “well-defined development edge” do not apply.

Issue 3: Agricultural Land Requirements

Appellant:

The proposed PUD does not preserve the existing agricultural uses.

Applicant:

The overlay ordinance supercedes the MCGP. To read the MCGP to require preservation
of existing agriculture would be illogical as it would stop all development. It is more
logical to assume that development should not infringe upon neighboring agricultural
uses.

Staff:

The policies in the MCGP were designed to protect neighboring agricultural uses, not the
land being developed. The MCGP encourages the preservation of agriculture outside of
towns and village centers, not within the neighborhoods inside those centers.




                                             13

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
Analysis:

The MCGP clearly embraces a limited, guided transition of some areas of the county
from rural and agricultural uses to more concentrated development. The Wilkinson Farm
area is designated for development as a neighborhood, even though the term “farm” is
used to describe its historical use.

Conclusion:

The proposed PUD does not violate the policies in the MCGP that seek to preserve
agriculture.

Issue 4: Slopes.

Appellant:

The proposed PUD involves development and construction on slopes that exceed 25%,
which is prohibited by the MCGP.

Applicant:

The LUMC at 16-04-770(a) prohibits building envelopes on natural or manmade slopes
over twenty-five percent grade without site-specific review by a geologist and/or
geotechnical engineer. This allows disturbance of such slopes and supercedes the
MCGP. There are no building envelopes on a slope greater than 25% and no
geotechnical concerns have been found. The County Council’s action to grant
preliminary approval conclusively resolved the issue of “over-lot grading.”

Staff:

The 25% slope limitation applies to the construction of homes on slopes greater than 25%
and no homes are to be built on such slopes. The geotechnical studies have shown that
there is no slope instability hazard potential. Further study will be required with each
building permit application. There is no prohibition in the LUMC, the MCGP or the
MGAP against lots with more than 25% slope. It is too early to tell if there will be any
lots that do not have a building pad of 15% slope or less. The Council and Planning
Commission toured the site and determined that the provisions related to “over-grading”
did not apply as they defined the term.

Analysis:

The provision of Policy 1.1.5 of the MCGP is very clear. Any “development or
construction” on any natural slope that equals or exceeds 25% is prohibited. The second
part of this policy could be read to apply to development and construction on slopes that

                                           14

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
are less than 25% to make the sentence internally consistent. The Policy addresses two
solutions to hillside issues: 1) no development on 25% slopes and 2) engineering
measures on other slopes to reduce the risks of instability.

This provision may or may not be reasonable, but it is clearly stated in the text of the
document and therefore would be given its full legal force.

In the Springville Citizens case, the court overturned a PUD approval because the city
had not complied with mandatory provisions of the local ordinances. The opinion does
not applaud the restrictive measures that tripped up the applicant and the city reviewers,
but simply stated that if the city chose to impose mandatory rules that were impractical it
should amend them, not ignore them.

Conclusion:

If the PUD as proposed involves any roads or construction on natural slopes equal to or
greater than 25%, it violates the General Plan. It is not possible to determine
conclusively at this point if any such development is mandated by the development as
preliminarily approved, but as more specific plans and engineering proceeds, any
development or construction on natural slopes of 25% or greater would violate the
provisions of the Planned Unit Development Overlay Zone Ordinance at 16-35-070.

Issue 5: Open Space

Appellant:

The open space provisions of the MCGP are essential to calculating bonus densities and
to the goals of the plan. They should minimize sprawl and preserve prime areas as open
space. The proposed PUD does not do this, but uses undesirable and unbuildable land as
open space while still obtaining bonus densities for not developing those properties.

Applicant:

The Overlay Ordinance supercedes the MCGP and only requires 40% open space
although the MCGP requires 60%. The Development Documents do not violate the
Overlay Ordinance. The open space includes large and contiguous pieces of land and a
trail system. The assertion that these lands are left over or scattered is without merit.

Staff:

The open space proposed is neither unconnected or undesireable. These lands have
continuing use in farming and wildlife habitat. The minimum “useable” open space is
easily met. Densities were not calculated as alleged.


                                             15

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
Analysis:

The MCGP policies cited by the appellant use the word “should” rather than “must” or
“shall”. This leaves the interpretation and application of these provisions to the judgment
of the land use authority.

Conclusion:

There is substantial evidence in the record which is sufficient to support the decision that
the open space is appropriately configured.

Issue 6: Wildlife Habitat

Appellant:

The Wilkinson Farm is critical habitat. Provisions of the MCGP requiring preservation,
mitigation, and close cooperation with wildlife officials have not been followed. The
impact of the project on wildlife has not been appropriately minimized. Again, bonus
densities were granted contrary to the limits in the ordinances and MCGP.

Applicant:

The impact on wildlife is minimal and in compliance with the Overlay Ordinance and the
provisions of the general plan. The property is not critical habitat for the Sage Grouse.
The wildlife corridors identified in the project proposal meet the critical needs.

Staff:

The applicant has worked closely with DWR and staff also made contacts to verify
sufficiency. If no sensitive lands were affected by development, there would be no
development. The proposal makes adequate provision for wildlife.

Analysis:

The provisions of the MCGP related to wildlife are more general in scope and impose
less specific mandates than the requirements imposed on other aspects of development.

Conclusion:

Local discretion will be supported on this issue. There is substantial evidence in the
record which is sufficient to support the decision that the open space is appropriately
configured.



                                             16

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
II. PUD VIOLATIONS

Issue 1. Useable Open Space Requirements

Appellant:

The open space in the proposed PUD is not sufficiently useable. Most of the more level
property is covered with development. Those areas set aside were already constrained by
other limits on use. There is no provision that useable open space be landscaped and
maintained. The minimum requirement that 10% of open space be useable has not been
complied with.

Appellant:

The proposed PUD complies with the ordinances as more than 10 percent of the open
space is improved. All open space is landscaped and maintained.

Staff:

The proposed PUD meets the requirements. The standard is not that the land must be
landscaped, but that it must be able to be landscaped. There is disagreement on what
constitutes “useable” vs. “improved” open space.

Analysis:

The provisions of the ordinances related to open space are general in scope and impose
less specific mandates than the requirements imposed on other aspects of development.

Conclusion:

Local discretion will be supported on this issue. There is substantial evidence in the
record which is sufficient to support the decision that the open space is appropriately
configured.

Issue 2 – Bonus Density Improperly Granted.

Appellant:

Staff justification for bonus density awarded with regard to “extra useable open space
was inadequate. Inappropriate density bonus for slope set-asides and public reservoir
use.

Applicant:

                                            17

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
No response

Staff:

The density bonus was vested at concept plan approval.

Analysis:

As stated above, no vesting has occurred with regard to any aspect of the project other
than that the ordinances that were in place and applicable to the review of an application
cannot be changed without the consent of the applicant after a complete application is
submitted and applicable fees are paid. See Utah Code Ann. 17-27a-508.

The density bonus aspects of chapter 35 of the Land Use Management Code at Section
16-35-040 appear to be very discretionary. The “Extra useable open space for public
use” provision is defined in footnote 7 to apply to “open space allowed for public use”
while I have not reviewed the staff comments referred to, it would seem that the reference
to a reservoir where public use is allowed would be sufficient to support the exercise of
discretion by the planning commission in granting this density bonus.

Conclusion:

The density bonus allowed for extra useable open space for public use would be upheld.
Local discretion will be supported on this issue. There is substantial evidence in the
record which is sufficient to support the decision that the density bonus is allowed in
response to making an amenity included in useable open space available to the public.

Issue 3 – Improper Density Calculation

Appellant:

The bonus densities violate the maximum densities allowed in rural areas under the
General Plan, which the PUD ordinance insists be followed exactly.

Applicant:

No comment.

Staff:

The General Plan does not prohibit bonus density outside the neighborhood boundary and
bonus densities have been given in the normal course of approval for PUD developments
in rural areas. There were no duplicative bonus densities given.

                                            18

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
Analysis

The bonus densities are allowed under specific provisions of the land use ordinances in
the same chapter where the provision exists that requires strict conformity to the General
Plan. These specific provisions allowing density bonuses would be considered by a court
to better reflect the legislative intent instead of any more general statements in the
General Plan. In order to make the General Plan, the bonus densities provisions and the
strict conformance provisions reconcile, it would be logical to conclude that the
legislative intent of all these provisions was to allow bonus densities, and that those
bonuses do not violate the General Plan.

Conclusion:

The bonus densities do not violate the General Plan.

Issue 4 – Improper Granting of Variances

Appellant:

The project allows reduced setbacks and flag lots without the necessary findings that are
required of variances by state statute. Variances are reserved for the Board of Appeals to
grant and cannot be granted by the PUD approval process.
Applicant:

The Overlay Amendment supercedes any conflicting language in other, older ordinances.
By enacting an ordinance specific to the property, the County is not granting a variance.

Staff:

Section 16-35-060 allows the Council to vary setbacks, yard, coverage and height
regulations. The adoption of an ordinance is not a function of the Board of Appeals. The
Council can adopt a specific ordinance for a specific PUD zone and include appropriate
setback, height, frontage, and other requirements as deemed suitable in the new zone.

Analysis:

Section 16-35-060 of the Land Use Management Code does indeed allow the Council,
upon the recommendation of the Planning Commission, to “vary” the normal setbacks,
yard, coverage, and height regulations of the underlying zone. When the legislative body
sets new standards, it is not granting a “variance” as used in the state statute and the
Appeals section of the Land Use Management Code. To quote the language specifically,
the statute reads “variances from the terms of the land use ordinances” in Utah Code Ann.


                                            19

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
17-27a-701(1)(a). In the current case, the “variances” are not from the ordinance, they
are in the ordinance. The statutory discussion of variances does not apply.

Conclusion:

The proposed PUD ordinance does not contain illegal variances.

Issue 5. PUD overlay zone amendment must be applied within Town or Village
Boundaries.

Appellant:

PUD overlay zones cannot be used outside a Town or Village identified by the General
Plan. Since part of the PUD lies outside the defined boundaries of the Town of Mountain
Green, the PUD cannot be approved.

Applicant:

No response.

Staff:

The General Plan defined the boundaries of the Town of Mountain Green. The PUD was
always within those town boundaries. Other recommendations and aspects of the Area
Plan did not change the definition of the boundaries of the entire Town.

Analysis:

The General Plan lists “Wilkinson Farm” as a neighborhood in the Town of Mountain
Green. The associated maps generally identify the area considered in the Mountain
Green Area Plan, which includes all the PUD area. It would appear that the proposed
PUD is within the area of the Town of Mountain Green and is eligible for development
under the PUD ordinance. The determination of the staff, the planning commission, and
the council that the PUD is within a “town” is within the discretion afforded local
government in interpreting its ordinances.

Conclusion:

The proposed PUD does not violate Section 16-35-060 of the Land Use Ordinances. The
PUD is within the Town of Mountain Green.




                                           20

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
III. Mountain Green Area Plan Violations.

Appellant:

The Mountain Green Area Plan applies to the development. The development is not in
compliance because it is outside the town boundaries, exceeds the recommended
densities, and violates the development guidelines related to the airport area.

Applicant:

The application was submitted prior to the pending approval of the Area Plan, and the
applicant has proceeded with the application with reasonable diligence, so the Plan does
not apply.

Staff:

The Area Plan approval was not pending at the time the application was submitted, so it
does not apply. Densities in the Area Plan are not exceeded by the PUD as proposed.
Reasonable efforts were made, consistent with the Land Use Ordinances, to
accommodate the details of the PUD as they relate to the airport area.

Analysis:

This issue is impossible to resolve without extensive research that is beyond the scope of
this advisory opinion. Among the questions that would have to be addressed are:
    1.      What is a complete PUD application?
    2.      When was a complete PUD application submitted and all applicable fees
            paid?
    3.      Could the Area Plan be considered a “pending ordinance” when it is not in
            ordinance form?
    4.      When did the Area Plan become a “pending ordinance”? Was it adopted
            within six months of that date?
    5.      Although the PUD Chapter of the Land Use Ordinance mandates strict
            compliance with the General Plan, does that extend to include “supplements”
            to the General Plan such as the Area Plans?
    6.      What about inconsistencies between the General Plan and the Area Plans?
            Which control?

Conclusion:

The County and the Applicant maintain that the PUD is not required to comply strictly
with the provisions of the Area Plan. Absent the right answers to the above questions, the
default decision would be that it does not apply. That is by far the most likely result of


                                            21

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
any investigation done on the issues raised, and the conclusion of this advisory opinion as
well. The Mountain Green Area Plan does not apply to the application at issue here.

Conclusion of the Advisory Opinion:

The position of the appellants is correct with regard to their claim that the proposed PUD
must comply with mandatory provisions of the General Plan. While there are more
details to be determined, particularly with regard to natural slopes of 25% or more, I
conclude that a court would find that the County would not exceed its discretion if it were
to approve the current proposal with a provision that future approvals for specific site
configuration and building permits must also comply with the MCGP and relevant
ordinances.

The complexities and nuances of the MCGP and the competing philosophies being
advanced by all involved are very much issues of policy, not law. The normal intention
of the courts to defer to local decision makers in such matters and the case law
requirements that ambiguities be resolved in favor of the use of property combine to
make it very difficult to challenge land use decisions such as these.

As I am bound by the same guidelines that a court would be, I must arrive at that same
conclusion. As I understand the facts and law at this time, I have concluded that if this
matter were to be decided by legal process, a court would likely find that the application
as proposed and approved preliminarily does not violate relevant law with regard to the
issues raised.

I also believe that the pending appeal before the Board of Appeals is not timely brought
and the Board has no authority to hear it at this time. The appellants can challenge the
approval of the PUD after it the Council makes a final decision. At that time the
appellants can appeal to the Board of Appeals and/or to the District Court. I have also
concluded that there has been no lapsing of appeals rights because this interim appeal is
premature, and all issues will be available for review once the final decision of the
County Council is made.




Craig M. Call, Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, 13-42-205. It does
not constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or
policy of the State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed
                                            22

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
are arrived at based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this
specific matter, and may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in
another matter where the facts and circumstances are different or where the
relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his
understanding of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this
matter. Anyone with an interest in these issues who must protect that interest
should seek the advice of his or her own legal counsel and not rely on this document
as a definitive statement of how to protect or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not
binding on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is
the subject of an advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that
cause of action is litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved
consistent with the advisory opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause
of action may collect reasonable attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the
development of that cause of action from the date of the delivery of the advisory
opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the
opinions, writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights
Ombudsman are not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small
claims court, a judicial review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees
as explained above.




                                           23

Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Richards/Morgan County/ Cottonwoods PUD – July 10, 2006
