                     Advisory Opinion #78
                             Parties: Bob Martino and Salt Lake County
                                       Issued: November 24, 2009

                                         TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      E: Entitlement to Application Approval (Vesting)
                      H: Compelling, Countervailing Public Interests

Lot owners enjoy vested rights a “buildable pad” identified on each lot on the
subdivision plat. Those vested rights cannot be impaired, unless there is a
compelling, countervailing public interest. The County has a legitimate interest in
protecting ridgelines and hillsides, but that interest is not a threat to the public’s
health or safety.      Therefore, the County does not have a compelling,
countervailing public interest, and it may not impair or restrict the owner’s vested
rights.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                        State of Utah
                        Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                        OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   GREG BELL
Lieutenant Governor




                                         ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                Bob Martino

      Local Government Entity:                      Salt Lake County

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:          Bob Martino
                                                    Scott Holmes

      Project:                                      Single Family Dwelling

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                November 24, 2009

      Opinion Authored By:                          Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney, Office of the Property
                                                    Rights Ombudsman

                                                    Issue
      May a local government restrict building in an area identified on a subdivision plat as a
      “buildable pad?”

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
      The plat that was approved in 1994 identified a “buildable pad” on each lot. Since the pads were
      approved as part of the plat, lot owners enjoy vested rights in those pads, along with the lot sizes
      and configurations. Those vested rights cannot be impaired, unless the County has a compelling,
      countervailing public interest that requires interference with those rights. A serious threat to the
      public’s health, safety, or welfare is considered sufficiently compelling to justify interference
      with vested rights.

      The County has a legitimate interest in protecting ridgelines and hillsides, but the County has not
      shown that this interest presents sufficient threat to the public’s health or safety. Therefore, the
      County does not have a compelling, countervailing public interest, and it may not impair or
      restrict Mr. Martino’s right to use the buildable pad for construction of a building.
                                                    Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-
205. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Bob Martino on July 15, 2009. A copy of
that request was sent via certified mail to Sherrie Swenson, Salt Lake County Clerk. The return
certificate, indicating that the County received the copy of the Request, was received by the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman on July 20, 2009. The County submitted a response
to the OPRO, which was received on August 18, 2009.

                                                  Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, including attachments, filed July 15, 2009 with the
                 Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman by Bob Martino, including attachments.
     2.          Response from Salt Lake County, including attachments, submitted by Donald
                 Hansen, Deputy District Attorney, received August 18, 2009.

                                                Background
Bob Martino owns parcels located in Emigration Canyon. 1 The parcels are part of a planned unit
development entitled “Estates at Emigration Oaks Phase 4,” which was recorded in February of
1994. 2 The plat for Emigration Oaks shows large hillside or canyon lots with privately owned
and maintained roads. The lots within the subdivision are five acres or larger; however, the
practical buildable area is smaller, because of steep slopes. The plat for phase 4 identifies a
“buildable pad” on each lot, showing where a building could be located. 3 Salt Lake County
acknowledges the existence of the buildable pads, and notes that about “1/3 to 1/2” of Lot 402 is
usable. 4 The plat map does not show dimensions for the buildable pads, but they are apparently
drawn to scale.


1
  Salt Lake County notes that Lot 402, which is the subject of this Opinion, is actually owned by Lana Martino as a
Trustee. Bob Martino is listed as the owner of an adjoining lot.
2
  The earlier phases of Emigration Oaks date back to the 1980s and early 1990s.
3
  The size of the buildable pad varies with each lot.
4
  The buildable pad of Lot 402 is shaped somewhat like an arch, with two large areas connected by a narrow neck.

Advisory Opinion – Martino/Salt Lake County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 24, 2009– page 2 of 6 pages
In August of 1997, the County adopted a “Slope Protection Ordinance,” as part of the Foothills
and Canyons Overlay Zone regulations. That ordinance prohibits development within a
“ridgeline protection area” that has been designated in a county or township general plan. 5 The
ordinance defines the term “ridgeline protection area” as

           an area consisting of a prominent ridgeline that is highly visible from public
           rights-of-way or trails, and that includes the crest of any such designated
           prominent hill or slope, plus the land located within one-hundred feet horizontally
           (map distance) on either side of the crest.

SALT LAKE COUNTY CODE, § 19.72.070 (definition of “Ridgeline Protection Area”).

The County states that a ridgeline on Lot 402 was identified and mapped in August of 1999, as
part of the Emigration Canyon Township General Plan. The Ridgeline Protection Area (100 feet
on either side of the ridgeline) extends into the buildable pad identified for Lot 402. Although
the Ridgeline Protection Area limits the amount of the buildable area, a home could be located
on the remaining area.

Mr. Martino states that the ridgeline protection area restricts building in the most desirable
portion of the lot, based on view and accessibility. Mr. Martino states that a potential buyer
declined to purchase the lot because of the restrictions imposed by the ridgeline protection area.
The buyer intended to build a home in the area nearest the ridgeline, but the protection area
would force the home to be located 50-100 feet from the proposed location. Because of the
unusual shape of the buildable pad, the buyer’s home would need to be located on the opposite
side of the lot. That location is not as desirable, and so the buyer decided not to purchase the
lot. 6 Mr. Martino feels that the ridgeline protection area has taken away vested rights to develop
the property, and has severely impacted its value.

                                                      Analysis
I.       The Property Owner has a Vested Right in the Buildable Pad Identified on the Plat
         Map

Because the 1994 plat map specifically identifies a “buildable pad” on each lot in the Emigration
Oaks plat, Mr. Martino has a vested right to build within that pad. A property owner “is entitled
to a building permit . . . if his proposed development meets the zoning requirements in existence
at the time of his application . . . .” Western Land Equities v. Logan, 617 P.2d 388, 396 (Utah
1980). The Utah Legislature later codified that rule at § 17-27a-508 of the Utah Code:

           [A]n applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the application
           conforms to the requirements of the county’s land use maps, zoning map, and
           applicable land use ordinance in effect when a complete application is submitted.



5
    See SALT LAKE COUNTY CODE, § 19.72.060(B).
6
    The County notes that no application for a building permit or other type of development has been submitted.

Advisory Opinion – Martino/Salt Lake County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 24, 2009– page 3 of 6 pages
UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-508(1)(a). The purpose of the vesting rule was explained by the Utah
Supreme Court:

           It is intended to strike a reasonable balance between important, conflicting public
           and private interests in the area of land development. A property owner should be
           able to plan for developing his property in a manner permitted by existing zoning
           regulations with some degree of assurance that the basic ground rules will not be
           changed in midstream.

Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 396.

The Utah Court of Appeals recognized that the owner of an approved subdivision plat enjoys
some vested rights in the plat, although development would still be subject to changes in zoning
regulations:

           Some courts have recognized that the filing of a subdivision plat gives a vested
           right to individual lot owners as to the lots’ size . . . . Individual lot owners within
           an approved subdivision, however, generally have no vested right to build under a
           given zoning ordinance until the municipality has issued a building permit for that
           specific lot or the lot owner has incurred substantial expense in reliance on the
           current zoning ordinance.

Stucker v. Summit County, 870 P.2d 283, 288 (Utah Ct. App. 1994). This establishes a sensible
balance between an owner’s property rights and the public’s interest in land use regulation. 7 A
lot owner may claim vested rights in a lot’s size and configuration, because those are established
when the plat is approved and recorded. However, aspects of future development not shown on
the plat or otherwise previously vested or approved, such a building height or landscaping for
example, remain subject to regulation. 8

Accordingly, under Stucker, Mr. Martino may claim vested rights in the “buildable pads”
depicted on the Emigration Oaks plat. It must be presumed that the County knowingly approved
the subdivision with a “buildable pad” identified on most, if not all, lots. Because the pad
appears on the final plat, the pad is an aspect of lot configuration, and an owner may claim a
vested right to build within that area. A subsequent regulation cannot alter that right, unless there
is a compelling, countervailing public interest justifying an interference with the owner’s rights.

The County’s Ridgeline Ordinance was adopted in 1997, and the ridgeline impacting Lot 402
was identified in 1999. The Estates at Emigration Oaks Phase 4 plat was recorded in February of
1994, prior to adoption of the Ridgeline Ordinance, and identification of the ridgeline. Mr.
Martino has a vested right to build within the area approved on Lot 402, unless there is a


7
  See UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-102(2) (Counties to balance public’s interests against landowners property rights).
8
  Under the ruling announced in Stucker, a property owner could also claim vested rights based on “substantial
expense in reliance on the current zoning ordinance.” Stucker, 870 P.2d at 288. But see Western Land Equities, 617
P.2d at 395 (rejecting “reliance” tests used in other jurisdictions). Mr. Martino is not claiming substantial expense in
reliance on any former zoning ordinance.

Advisory Opinion – Martino/Salt Lake County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 24, 2009– page 4 of 6 pages
compelling, countervailing public interest that would be jeopardized by permitting building
within the designated building pad.

II.     There Is Not a Compelling Public Interest Sufficient to Hinder the Owner’s Vested
        Rights in the Buildable Pad.

Although protection of undeveloped hillsides is a legitimate public interest, it cannot be
considered compelling enough to justify restricting the Mr. Martino’s vested rights in the
buildable pad. A local government must honor a property owner’s vested rights, unless there is a
“compelling countervailing public interest” that warrants interference with the right. The Utah
Supreme Court indicated that a significant threat to the public welfare should be considered
compelling. “If a proposal met zoning requirements at the time of application but seriously
threatens public health, safety, or welfare, the interests of the public should not be thwarted.”
Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 395-96.

There is no dispute that the County may regulate land uses to promote the public’s health, safety,
or welfare. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-102(1). Regulations that severely impacted or even
prohibited land uses have been upheld as valid exercises of a local government’s authority. See
e.g., Arnell v. Salt Lake County Board of Adjustment, 2005 UT App. 165, ¶ 33, 112 P.3d 1214,
1224 (noting decisions from the United States Supreme Court upholding local restrictions on
land use). The County has a legitimate interest in restricting development on hillsides or steep
slopes. 9

The County enacted the Ridgeline Ordinance in order “to preserve the natural character of the
foothills and canyons . . .” and “to minimize the scarring and erosion effects of cutting, filling,
and grading related to construction on hillsides, ridgelines, and steep slopes . . . .” SALT LAKE
COUNTY ORDINANCES, § 19.72.010. While these are laudable and legitimate objectives, absent a
showing that they pose a serious impact the public’s health, safety, or welfare, they do not
warrant interference with a vested property right. 10 The County already approved a buildable pad
on Lot 402, indicating that a building could be located anywhere on that pad. It cannot revoke a
portion of that right without a showing of a serious threat to public welfare. 11

The County argues that most of the buildable pad identified on Lot 402 is may still be used even
if the Ridgeline Ordinance is strictly enforced. The County notes that the proposed home could
be moved “approximately 50 feet to the East” to avoid the ridgeline protection area. However,
the County also noted that “only about ½ of the proposed house . . . encroached into the 100-foot
protected ridgeline setback line.” Despite that characterization, a setback that affects ½ of a
proposed building is a significant impact in an already-approved buildable area, and cannot be



9
   See Arnell, 2005 UT App. 165, ¶ 27, 112 P.3d at 1223. (Court of Appeals did not dispute authority to regulate
development on hillsides; however, it did hold that a regulation could “go too far.”)
10
    The County does not claim that protecting the ridgeline on Mr. Martino’s property is necessary to prevent a
landslide or other subsidence. If there were such an imminent threat, a restriction on building may be justified.
11
    The County may allow development within a ridgeline protection area, by waiving or reducing the setback
required by the Ridgeline Protection Ordinance.

Advisory Opinion – Martino/Salt Lake County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 24, 2009– page 5 of 6 pages
considered insignificant or minimal. 12 Nevertheless, the standard requires a showing that a
compelling, countervailing public interest is high, rather than a showing that the impact upon the
property is low. 13

Mr. Martino has a vested right in the buildable pad identified on Lot 402. The County has not
shown that there is a compelling, countervailing public interest sufficient to overcome Mr.
Martino’s rights that have vested by means of the approved and recorded plat. At the time that
Mr. Martino or a subsequent owner makes an application for a building permit, the County must
make such a showing or honor Mr. Martino’s vested rights and allow him to build within the
shown buildable area.


                                                Conclusion
Mr. Martino has a vested right in the buildable pad identified on Lot 402. The pads were
included in the subdivision plat when it was approved by the County in 1994, and the owners
may rely upon them in the same manner in which they can rely upon the lot sizes and
configurations that were approved. The County may not interfere or restrict Mr. Martino’s
vested rights, unless a serious threat to the public’s health, safety, or welfare justifies a
restriction.

While protecting ridgelines and hillsides is a legitimate public interest, the County has not shown
that there is such a serious threat to the public’s health or safety that a property owner’s vested
rights must be compromised. Without a showing that the public’s health or safety is seriously
jeopardized unless the regulation is enforced, the County may not interfere with Mr. Martino’s
right to construct a home on the buildable pad approved for Lot 402.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




12
   In addition, “since zoning ordinances are in derogation of a property owner’s use of land . . . any ordinance
prohibiting a proposed use should be strictly construed in favor of allowing the use. Carrier v. Salt Lake County,
2004 UT 98, ¶ 31, 104 P.3d 1208, 1217.
13
   The Ridgeline Ordinance includes a provision allowing for adjustment or waiver of the required setback.
Therefore, it is possible to adjust the setback to allow a home to be placed on the buildable pad.
Advisory Opinion – Martino/Salt Lake County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 24, 2009– page 6 of 6 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

           Sherrie Swenson, County Clerk
           Salt Lake County
           2001 S. State St., #S2200
           Salt Lake City, Utah 84190-1050

On this ___________ Day of November, 2009, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
