                     Advisory Opinion #42
                       Parties: Equidigm Holding, LLC and North Ogden City
                                          Issued: May 29, 2008

                                       TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      D: Exactions on Development

A City’s requirement that a Developer purchase an undeveloped public right-of-
way from the City, build a road, and then dedicate it back to the City adds
unnecessary costs that are not proportional to the impact of the development.
There is no reason why the City cannot retain ownership of the roadway strip, and
allow the Developer to construct the road.         Payment of an exaction “under
protest” in order to preserve a right to a challenge may be permissible, although it
is by no means clear.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                        State of Utah
                        Department of Commerce
JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
       Governor
                        OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 GARY R. HERBERT
 Lieutenant Governor



                                        ADVISORY OPINION
         Purchase and Improvement of Publicly-Owned Property as Condition of Development


       Advisory Opinion Requested by:             Equidigm Holding, LLC

       Local Government Entity:                   North Ogden City

       Applicant for the Land Use Approval:       Ryan Johnson, Managing Member

       Project:                                   Residential Subdivision

       Date of this Advisory Opinion:             May 29, 2008

       Opinion Authored By:                       Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney, Office of the Property
                                                  Rights Ombudsman


                                                  Issues
       May the City of North Ogden require that a developer purchase publicly-owned land, construct a
       street on it, and then dedicate the same property back to the City?

                                   Summary of Advisory Opinion
       The City’s requirement that Equidigm purchase a publicly-owned roadway, construct a road, and
       then dedicate the improved property back to the City is an invalid condition on Equidigm’s
       proposed land development. As a condition imposed on subdivision approval, the City’s
       “Purchase/Improve/Rededicate Requirement” is an exaction, which must satisfy the “rough
       proportionality” analysis of § 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code. The City has not shown that the
       burden and costs of purchasing the City-owned property, building the road, and then dedicating
       the property back to the City is roughly proportional to the impact caused by the proposed
       subdivision. Without an individualized determination that the exaction is roughly proportionate
       to the impact created by the subdivision, the exaction exceeds the City’s authority.
                                                 Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Utah Code Ann. § 13-43-
205. The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or
other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such
a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from Equidigm Holding, LLC on April 7,
2008. A letter with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return receipt requested, to
Mayor Gary A. Harrop, North Ogden City, at 505 East 2600 North, Ogden, Utah 84414. Mayor
Harrop’s name was listed on the State’s Governmental Immunity Database as the contact person
for the City. The return receipt was signed and was received by the Office of the Property Rights
Ombudsman (OPRO) on April 10, 2008, indicating that the City had received it.

                                                Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion filed April 7, 2008 with the Office of the Property
                 Rights Ombudsman by Equidigm Holding, LLC, with attachments.
     2.          Email response from Bruce Evans, Attorney for North Ogden City, dated May 6,
                 2008.

                                              Background
Equidigm Holding, LLC (“Equidigm”) purchased a parcel of land in North Ogden City, and
proposed developing a residential subdivision. The parcel was “landlocked,” and did not have
access to any improved public streets. However, the City owned an adjoining parcel that had
evidently been acquired many years ago to be a public road or right of way. According to the
information available for this Opinion, the City possessed fee simple title to the adjoining parcel
(not merely an easement or defeasible title). The parcel was a narrow strip, suitable for use as a
public road, although the road was never built, and the parcel was never used for public travel.

Equidigm approached the City and explained its proposal to develop the subdivision, and
construct a road on the City’s parcel. The road would not only provide access for Equidigm’s
proposed subdivision, but also access for other nearby properties. Equidigm was willing to build




Advisory Opinion – Equidigm/North Ogden
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 29, 2008 – page 2 of 8 pages
the road at its expense. 1 The City, however, rejected this proposal, and required Equidigm to
purchase the parcel from them, build the road, and then dedicate the newly-constructed road back
to the City when construction was completed. The City offered to sell the parcel to Equidigm for
$18,000.00. According to the City, this was nearly $2,000 below the appraised value. Although
Equidigm objected to the sale, it nevertheless accepted the City’s offer, and purchased the parcel
in April of 2008. Ryan Johnson, the managing member of Equidigm, reports that he purchased
the parcel under protest, and informed the City that he reserved the right to challenge the City’s
requirement. The City acknowledged Mr. Johnson’s objections in its response.

                                                    Analysis
I.         Requiring Equidigm to Purchase the Road Parcel and Dedicate it Back to the City
           Constitutes an Improper Exaction.

The City’s requirement that Equidigm purchase the road parcel and dedicate back to the City
after the road is improved (the “Purchase/Improve/Rededicate Requirement”) constitutes an
improper exaction under the laws of the State of Utah. Local governments are restricted from
imposing unfair exactions on new development. As is discussed herein, the City’s requirement is
an improper exaction because the cost and burden imposed on Equidigm are not roughly
proportional to the impact caused by the proposed subdivision. Disproportionate exactions are
prohibited by § 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code, and by decisions of the Utah Supreme Court.

           A.         The Utah Code Establishes Parameters for Local Governments that Impose
                      Development Exactions

In 2005, the Utah Legislature enacted § 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code, which authorizes cities to
impose exactions on new development, but prescribes limits on that authority:

           (1) A county may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in a
           land use application provided that:

           (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
           exaction; and

           (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
           impact of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-508(1). 2 The Utah Supreme Court observed that the language of this
statute was borrowed directly from the U.S. Supreme Court analyses in Nollan v. California
Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825, 107 S.Ct. 3141 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374,
114 S.Ct. 2309 (1994). (See B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 41,
1
  From the information available for this Opinion, it appears that the road in question is not particularly long, and
would end shortly past the boundary of Equidigm’s property.
2
  There is a corresponding statute applicable to counties found at § 17-27a-507 of the Utah Code.



Advisory Opinion – Equidigm/North Ogden
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 29, 2008 – page 3 of 8 pages
128 P.3d 1161, 1170.) In those two landmark cases, the U.S. Supreme Court promulgated rules
for determining when an exaction is valid under the federal constitution’s Takings Clause. 3 This
has come to be known as the Nollan/Dolan “rough proportionality” test, and that two-part
analysis has been codified in § 10-9a-508.

           B.         The City’s Requirement is an Exaction.

The City’s requirement that the Developers purchase a roadway parcel from the City, improve it,
and then dedicate the parcel back to the City constitutes an “exaction” under Utah law.
“Exactions are conditions imposed by governmental entities on developers for the issuance of a
building permit or subdivision plat approval.” B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 34, 128 P.3d at 1169. 4 The
term “exaction” includes any condition on development, including not only dedication of
property, but also payment of money, installation of specific improvements, or other
requirements imposed by a public entity. Furthermore, the term “exaction” includes conditions
imposed by a general legislative enactment as well as those imposed by decisions or negotiations
on specific proposals. Id., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 46, 128 P.3d at 1170. Since the City is asking Equidigm
to purchase, improve, and then rededicate the roadway parcel in order to obtain approval for a
subdivision, the City is requiring an exaction, which must satisfy the requirements of § 10-9a-
508(1) of the Utah Code. 5

           C.         There is an Essential Link Between the Exaction and the City’s Legitimate
                      Governmental Interest.

Because improvement and maintenance of roadways and management of traffic is a legitimate
governmental interest, there is an essential link to the City’s requirement that Equidigm provide a
public road. The City’s requirement that Equidigm acquire, improve, and dedicate property for a
roadway meets the first test of § 10-9a-508, which requires an essential link, or “nexus” between
the governmental interest and the proposed exaction. See Nollan, 483 U.S. at 837; see also
B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 36, 128 P.3d at 1169. Building and maintaining adequate roadways is a
legitimate government interest. UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-8-8; see also Carrier v. Lindquist, 2001
UT 105, ¶ 18, 37 P.3d 1112, 1117. 6 Requiring Equidigm to acquire, improve, and dedicate
3
  See U.S. CONST., amend. V. The Supreme Court has interpreted the Takings Clause as limiting a government’s
ability to impose conditions on development. Furthermore, “[t]he Utah Constitution reinforces the protection of
private property against uncompensated governmental takings. . . .” B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 31, 128 P.3d at 1168. See
also UTAH CONST. art. I, § 22.
4
  See also Salt Lake County v. Board of Education, Granite School District, 808 P.2d 1056, 1058 (Utah 1991)
(Development exactions are “contributions to a governmental entity imposed as a condition precedent to approving
the developer’s project.”)
5
  The City’s Purchase/Rededication Requirement falls squarely within the U.S. Supreme Court’s Nollan/Dolan
analysis, which specifically includes dedication of land as a condition of approval. See Monterey v. Del Monte
Dunes at Monterey, LTD., 526 U.S. 687, 703 (1999); see also Dolan, 512 U.S. at 385.
6
  “In order for a government to be effective, it needs the power to establish or relocate public throughways, even at
the expense of some individual citizens, for the convenience and safety of the general public. . . . In fact, cities are
vested with the statutory power to ‘lay out, establish, open, alter, widen, narrow, extend, grade, pave or otherwise
improve streets, alleys, avenues, boulevards, sidewalks, . . . and may vacate the same . . . by ordinance’. Utah Code
Ann. 10-8-8." Carrier, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18, 37 P.2d at 1117.



Advisory Opinion – Equidigm/North Ogden
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 29, 2008 – page 4 of 8 pages
property to use as a roadway promotes the City’s legitimate objectives, and thus the
Purchase/Improve/Rededicate Requirement meets the first prong of § 10-9a-508. 7

           D.         The City has not Shown that the Purchase/Improve/Rededicate Requirement is
                      Roughly Proportional to the Impact of the Proposed Subdivision.

The required exaction exceeds the City’s authority because there has been no showing that the
Purchase/Improve/Rededicate Requirement is roughly proportional to the impact of the proposed
subdivision. Both the Federal and Utah Constitutions “bar the Government from forcing some
people alone to bear public burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the
public as a whole.” Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960). 8 Fairness and justice
dictate that a local government cannot force a single developer to construct and dedicate a public
improvement over and above what is needed for a specific development. That is the underlying
philosophy of the Nollan/Dolan rough proportionality analysis, codified at § 10-9a-508.

In order to satisfy § 10-9a-508(1)(b), the City is required to undertake “some sort of
individualized determination” that its exaction is roughly proportional to the impact of the
subdivision. See B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 39, 128 P.3d at 1170; see also Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391.
The City has not shown the sort of individualized determination necessary to justify the
Purchase/Improve/Rededicate Requirement. Without this determination, the City cannot meet its
burden of establishing that the exaction is proper.

The City points out that requiring developers to deed roadways in new subdivisions to local
governments is a “well established and lawful practice.” In general, that is correct, as many
residential subdivisions include internal and access roads built by private developers, which have
been turned over to local authorities. Such road dedications are exactions, however, and are
subject to the individualized rough proportionality analysis required by § 10-9a-508. Simply
because the practice is well-established does not mean that it is exempt from the Nollan/Dolan
rough proportionality analysis.

Even without an individualized study of the exaction’s burden on the developer, there are serious
questions that the Purchase/Improve/Rededicate Requirement is disproportional to the impact of
Equidigm’s subdivision. In the first place, the road that is being constructed appears to benefit
other properties. If that is the case, it is unfair and unjust that Equidigm bear the full burden of
constructing the road. State and Federal law prohibits the City from requiring Equidigm to bear
more than its proportional share for the road.
7
  Note that the first prong of the exaction test in § 10-9a-508 requires an essential link between the exaction
(dedication of the road) and a legitimate government interest (providing adequate roadways). This first prong does
not, however, require an essential link between the exaction (widening the road) and the approval sought (a
subdivison). See Nollan, 483 U.S. at 837. The “rough proportionality” prong of the test weighs the impact of
project for which approval has been sought against the nature and extent of the proposed exaction. See B.A.M., 2006
UT 2, ¶¶ 39-40, 128 P.3d at 1169-70.
8
  See also Monterey, 526 U.S. at 703 (“[I]n a general sense, concerns for proportionality animate the Takings
Clause” (i.e., the Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.)). As has already been discussed, Article 1, § 22 of the
Utah Constitution also prohibits uncompensated public takings. See footnote 3, supra.



Advisory Opinion – Equidigm/North Ogden
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 29, 2008 – page 5 of 8 pages
Secondly, the City’s requirement that Equidigm purchase the property for the road from the City
adds unnecessary cost to the project. Requiring purchase of the property amounts to a windfall
for the City, because it gets the improved property back, but keeps the purchase price. There has
been no individualized determination that the impact of the Equidigm subdivision is roughly
proportional to the cost of acquiring the property, plus the cost of building the road and
dedicating the property back to the City. Unless the City can show that the overall cost
(including the purchase price as well as construction costs) is roughly proportional to the impact
caused by the proposed subdivision, the requirement is an improper exaction under § 10-9a-508.

The City states that conditioning approval of the subdivision on Equidigm’s purchase of the
roadway parcel was “entirely appropriate,” and necessary to prevent the City’s property from
becoming part “of one or more building lots.” This argument is specious, because the City’s
property could not become part of a private building lot or a subdivision without the City’s
approval. Along the same lines, since it is impossible to obtain title to public property through
adverse possession, there is no danger that City property will revert to private ownership. 9

In further defense of the condition, the City claims that there was no other way to ensure that the
development would proceed. “If the City were to ‘gift’ the property to a developer in this
circumstance, the City cannot easily guarantee that the proposed development will proceed, be
approved or sold to another owner.” This argument also has little merit, because once the City
has sold its property, nothing prevents a purchaser from reselling it. In fact, the City would exert
more control over the development if it retained title to the roadway parcel and simply required
Equidigm to construct the road

The City’s position apparently stems from a belief that Equidigm must own the property in order
that it may construct improvements upon it. It is true, as the City states, that a government entity
must receive fair value when it disposes of public property. Price Development Co. v. Orem
City, 2000 UT 26, ¶ 27, 995 P.2d 1237, 1247. However, that principle does not mean that the
City is obligated to sell the roadway parcel to Equidigm so that the road could be built. It also
does not follow, as the City seems to contend, that the City must sell its property to a developer
in order force that developer to dedicate the improved property back. 10 There is no law
preventing the City from requiring a developer to improve any property already owned by the
City, subject to rough proportionality analysis. In other words, the City may retain title to the




9
   UTAH CODE ANN. § 78B-2-216 (formerly§ 78-12-13); see also Cassity v. Castagno, 10 Utah 2d 16, 18, 347 P.2d
834, 835 (Utah 1959) (“One may not adverse the sovereign”); Fries v. Martin, 2006 UT App. 514, ¶ 7, 154 P.3d 184,
186-87 (Claimaint “cannot adversely possess land ‘designated for public use’”).
10
   The City states that: “The practice Equidigm espouses (i.e., not being required to purchase the roadway parcel)
could directly threaten future developments within the City or statewide if it resulted in an expectation that the City
shouldn’t seek or require compensation for its property wherever it lies. Taken to an extreme, this would threaten
deeding aprons, sidewalks, and other land when the City will ultimately receive title.” E-mail Response, City of
North Ogden, May 6, 2008.



Advisory Opinion – Equidigm/North Ogden
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 29, 2008 – page 6 of 8 pages
land, but require construction and dedication of any improvements. The City could have simply
entered an agreement with Equidigm to construct the road on the property it already owns. 11

In sum, the Purchase/Improve/Rededicate Requirement is an exaction that is subject to § 10-9a-
508. In order for the exaction to be valid, the City must show that the total burden on Equidigm
is roughly proportional, both in nature and extent, to the impact caused by the proposed
subdivision. The City has not undertaken the sort of individualized determination which
satisfied the rough proportionality test. The exaction is therefore invalid. Even without an
individualized analysis, it appears that the added cost of purchasing the property from the City,
only to dedicate it back after constructing a road, exceeds the proportional impact attributable to
the subdivision.

 II.        Equidigm May Preserve the Right to Challenge the Exaction, by Protesting the
            Purchase of the Roadway Parcel.

Equidigm purchased the roadway parcel under protest. The City acknowledged that Equidigm
disputed the sale. 12 While a full analysis of Equidigm’s legal rights is beyond the scope of this
Opinion, it is possible that an action challenging the exaction could be maintained. In Call v.
City of West Jordan, 606 P.2d 217 (Utah 1979), one of the property owners paid the disputed
exaction “under protest,” so that his development could proceed. The Utah Supreme Court did
not question his ability to pursue a challenge to the required exaction. 13



                                               Conclusion
The requirement that Equidigm purchase the roadway parcel from the City, construct a road, and
then dedicate the same property back to the City is invalid. This Purchase//Improve/Rededicate
Requirement is an exaction, because the City has imposed the requirement as a condition on
Equidigm’s subdivision application. As an exaction, the condition must satisfy the two-part test
expressed in § 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code.

Requiring the purchase of City property for a road satisfies the first part of the test: There is an
essential link between the construction and dedication of the road, and the City’s legitimate
interest in providing adequate public roadways. However, the requirement is an invalid exaction,
because there has been no showing that it is roughly proportional to the impact caused by
Equidigm’s proposed subdivision. The burden of constructing the road alone may be

11
   As a condition of approval, such an agreement would be an exaction subject to the “rough proportionality”
analysis of § 10-9a-508.
12
   See E-mail Response, North Ogden City, May 6, 2008. The City stated that it rejected Equidigm’s request that
the purchase money be held in escrow pending this Opinion.
13
   Call v. City of West Jordan, 606 P.2d 217, 218 (Utah 1979). Plaintiff Clark Jenkins paid $16,576.00 “under
protest.” The Court did not directly address his standing to challenge the exaction.




Advisory Opinion – Equidigm/North Ogden
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 29, 2008 – page 7 of 8 pages
disproportionate to the impact of the subdivision, plus the unnecessary cost of purchasing the
property from the City further exceeds the needs caused by the proposed development. For these
reasons, the Purchase/Improve/Rededicate Requirement is an invalid exaction, unless the City
can show, through an individualized determination, that the total cost and burden is roughly
proportional to the impact of Equidigm’s proposed subdivision.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Equidigm/North Ogden
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 29, 2008 – page 8 of 8 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Mayor Gary A. Harrop
              505 E. 2600 North
              North Ogden, UT 84414

On this ___________ Day of May, 2008, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
