                     Advisory Opinion #47
                         Parties: David Grotegut and City of Spanish Fork
                                          Issued: July 29, 2008

                                         TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      D: Exactions on Development
                      E: Entitlement to Application Approval (Vesting)

The expense of complying with exaction must be roughly equal to the costs the
City would incur to address the impact. It also must be remembered that the trail
requirement was imposed in exchange for concessions on density. Development
must proceed within the bounds set by statute and ordinances, as well as specific
plans.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
       Governor
                            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 GARY R. HERBERT
 Lieutenant Governor



                                            ADVISORY OPINION
                        Validity of Development Agreement for Construction of Public
                                  Improvements as Condition of Development


       Advisory Opinion Requested by:                 David Grotegut

       Local Government Entity:                       Spanish Fork City

       Applicant for the Land Use Approval:           David Grotegut

       Project:                                       Residential Subdivision

       Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 July 29, 2008

       Opinion Authored By:                           Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney, Office of the Property
                                                      Rights Ombudsman


                                                      Issues
          I.     May a local government require dedication of a twenty-eight foot strip of land for a trail,
                 landscaping, and storm-water management from an individual property owner who is part
                 of a larger development project?

          II.    Is the City obligated to approve an additional lot proposed by the developer?

                                       Summary of Advisory Opinion
       The required dedication constitutes an exaction, which must satisfy the “rough proportionality”
       analysis required by state and federal law. The requirement promotes legitimate governmental
       interests, and thus satisfies the first part of the test. The City must also show, however, that the
       dedication is roughly equivalent to the costs associated with assuaging the impact attributable to
       the new development. Only if the cost of addressing the impact can be shown to be roughly
       equal to the cost of the property to be dedicated, can the condition be considered valid.

       The City is not obligated to approve an additional lot on a major collector if the lot violates
       prohibitions found in the City’s code. The property is subject to zoning regulation by the City,
and the subdivision must comply with the restrictions found in the City’s code. Even if an
additional lot is allowed by the applicable density, the restrictions prohibit the layout proposed
by the developer.

                                                  Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or
other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such
a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from David Grotegut on March 26, 2008. A
letter with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return receipt requested, to Kimberly
Robinson, City Recorder, Spanish Fork City, at 40 S. Main Street, Spanish Fork, Utah 84660.
Ms. Robinson’s name was listed on the State’s Governmental Immunity Database as the contact
person for the City. The City submitted a response, which was received by the Office of the
Property Rights Ombudsman on April 8, 2008. Mr. Grotegut submitted additional information
on April 14, 2008 and on April 29, 2008. On April 14, copies of all correspondence that had
been received were sent to Brent Bowers of Salisbury Development, which is a potentially
interested party. Neither Mr. Bowers nor Salisbury Development submitted any response.

                                                 Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion filed March 26, 2008 with the Office of the
                 Property Rights Ombudsman by David Grotegut, with attachments.
     2.          Response from Spanish Fork City, submitted by S. Junior Baker, City Attorney.
     3.          Additional information from David Grotegut, received on April 14 and 29, 2008.

                                                Background
In June of 2006, Spanish Fork City annexed about 127 acres, including a parcel owned by Mr.
Grotegut. The parcel was located along the City’s eastern boundary, near 400 North. Mr.
Grotegut agreed to this annexation. 1 By the end of 2006, Salisbury Homes had submitted an

1
 According to Mr. Grotegut, the annexation was proposed by KDNJ Development, LLC. Mr. Grotegut signed an
agreement with KDNJ, along with another property owner. It appears that Salisbury Homes acquired the KDNJ
property, and has pursued development.


Advisory Opinion – Grotegut/Spanish Fork City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 29, 2008 – page 2 of 8 pages
application for a proposed planned unit development (“PUD”) encompassing all or most of the
parcel. The PUD included single family homes, condominiums, and multi-family residences,
along with some parks. The City allowed the PUD to have a higher density, or number of units,
than would have been allowed under the zoning designation for the property. This “bonus
density” of 79 units was approved, at least in part, because the PUD’s developers promised to
develop a trail along 400 North to be incorporated into the City’s trail system. 2

Mr. Grotegut’s property is included in the northwest corner of the PUD, although he states that
he is free to develop his property independently of the PUD’s developer, and that his property is
not bound by the requirements imposed on the remainder of the PUD. The property will be
linked to the remainder of the annexed parcel by roads. Mr. Grotegut lives in an existing home
on the property, located on 400 North, but no other lot will be accessible directly from that road.
By agreement, Mr. Grotegut transferred the “bonus” density on his property to KDNJ, in
exchange for payment of initial fees and engineering costs.

The overall development was approved in phases. Salisbury began by developing the first two
phases on the southern portion of the parcel, away from Mr. Grotegut’s property, and has
proceeded northward. Mr. Grotegut’s property is designated as “Neighborhood #2” and it
appears that it will not be developed by Salisbury, although it will still be part of the same PUD.

As a condition of approval, the City required the developers of the PUD to dedicate a 28 foot
strip of property along 400 North for a trail and landscaping. The landscaping would include a
curb and gutter, storm drain, and a wall separating the trail from the adjoining homes. 3 Mr.
Grotegut objects to this condition, stating that the burden of the total required exaction is
disproportionately high compared to the impact caused by the development on his property. As
of this writing, Mr. Grotegut has not formally dedicated the property to the City.

The City approved a preliminary plat for the PUD in early 2007. Mr. Grotegut’s property
included 22 new lots, plus the existing lot. None of the new lots had frontage on 400 North, but
all were accessed by internal streets. The City indicated that it preferred to restrict access onto
400 North, in order to minimize traffic disruption on that collector route. 4 In November of 2007,
Mr. Grotegut applied to modify the plat layout on his property. He hoped to add an additional lot
on 400 North to the west of his home. He maintained that this proposed lot could share the
existing access with his home, or, in the alternative, be accessed by a lane from an internal street.
The City rejected both the “shared access” proposal and the alternative “lane access,” on the
basis that City ordinances prohibited “flag” lots. 5 The City also maintains that the maximum

2
  The City ordinance annexing the parcel designated the zoning as “R-1-12” (12,000 square foot lots, or a density of
about 3.5 units per acre), and imposed two conditions: (1) Completion of 130 West before July 2008; and (2)
construction of a trail in conjunction with development of the parcel. The City states that 17.38 additional lots are
attributable to the trail construction.
3
  Mr. Grotegut’s home would still have access from 400 North, although it is not clear whether the wall would be
required. Dedication of land for the trail was also a condition of annexation. See note 2.
4
  The City’s Ordinances prohibit new lots with frontage on arterial or major collector streets. Spanish Fork City
Code, § 39.20.030(G).
5
  A “flag” lot does not have full frontage directly on a public street, but is accessed by a driveway or lane.


Advisory Opinion – Grotegut/Spanish Fork City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 29, 2008 – page 3 of 8 pages
allowable density, or number of lots, has been reached, and so an additional lot could not be
added.

The City did allow Mr. Grotegut access to his existing home from the east, via a 12 foot lane
from a cul-de-sac. The City felt that this access would be beneficial, because it would help
alleviate possible traffic problems on 400 North. Mr. Grotegut disagrees with this proposal.

                                                  Analysis
    I.     In Order to be a Valid Exaction, the Cost of the Trail Must be Roughly Equal to the
           Cost Necessary to Address the Increased Needs Caused by the Development.

The City’s requirement that property be dedicated for a trail constitutes an “exaction” under Utah
law. “Exactions are conditions imposed by governmental entities on developers for the issuance
of a building permit or subdivision plat approval.” B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake
County, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 34, 128 P.3d 1161, 1169 (“B.A.M. I”). 6 The term “exaction” includes any
condition on development, including not only dedication of property, but also payment of money,
installation of specific improvements, or other requirements imposed by a public entity.
Furthermore, the term “exaction” includes conditions imposed by a general legislative enactment
as well as those imposed by decisions or negotiations on specific proposals. Id., 2006 UT 2, ¶
46, 128 P.3d at 1170. Since the City is asking Mr. Grotegut dedicate a portion of his property
and develop it into a trail and landscaping in order to obtain approval for a subdivision, the City
is requiring an exaction, which must satisfy the requirements of § 10-9a-508(1) of the Utah
Code.

In 2005, the Utah Legislature enacted § 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code, which authorizes cities to
impose exactions on new development, within established limits:

           (1) A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed
           in a land use application provided that:

           (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
           exaction; and

           (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
           impact of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-508(1). 7 The Utah Supreme Court observed that the language of this
statute was borrowed directly from the U.S. Supreme Court analyses in Nollan v. California
Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825, 107 S.Ct. 3141 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374,
114 S.Ct. 2309 (1994). (See B.A.M I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 41, 128 P.3d at 1170.) In those two landmark

6
  See also Salt Lake County v. Board of Education, Granite School District, 808 P.2d 1056, 1058 (Utah 1991)
(holding that “development exactions” are “contributions to a governmental entity imposed as a condition precedent
to approving the developer’s project.”)
7
  There is a corresponding statute applicable to counties found at § 17-27a-507 of the Utah Code.


Advisory Opinion – Grotegut/Spanish Fork City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 29, 2008 – page 4 of 8 pages
cases, the U.S. Supreme Court promulgated rules for determining when an exaction may be
validly imposed under the federal constitution’s Takings Clause. 8 This has come to be known as
the Nollan/Dolan “rough proportionality” test, and that two-part analysis has been codified in §
10-9a-508.

The Utah Supreme Court further honed the “rough proportionality” analysis in B.A.M. v. Salt
Lake County, 2008 UT 45 (“B.A.M. II”), which was a second appeal stemming from the same
development project at issue in the earlier decision. The decision explained that rough
proportionality analysis “has two aspects: first, the exaction and impact must be related in
nature; second, they must be related in extent.” B.A.M. II, 2008 UT 45, ¶ 9. The “nature” aspect
focuses on the relationship between the purported impact and proposed exaction. The court
agreed that the approach should be expressed “in terms of a solution and a problem . . . . [T]he
impact is the problem, or the burden which the community will bear because of the development.
The exaction should address the problem. If it does, then the nature component has been
satisfied.” Id., 2008 UT 45, ¶ 10.

The “extent” aspect of the rough proportionality analysis measures the impact against the
proposed exaction in terms of cost:

           The most appropriate measure is cost—specifically, the cost of the exaction and
           the impact to the developer and the municipality, respectively. The impact of the
           development can be measured as the cost to the municipality of assuaging the
           impact. Likewise, the exaction can be measured as the value of the land to be
           dedicated by the developer at the time of the exaction.

Id., 2008 UT 45, ¶ 11. The court continued by holding that “roughly proportional” means
“roughly equivalent.” Thus, in order to be valid, the cost of an exaction must be roughly
equivalent to the cost that a local government would incur to address (or “assuage”) the impact
attributable to a new development.

In order to be a valid exaction, the City’s dedication requirement must satisfy all aspects
expressed in § 10-9a-508. First, there must be an essential link between a legitimate interest and
each exaction. The City’s legitimate governmental interests are promoted because the dedication
provides drainage control, 9 a pedestrian trail, 10 street improvements, and landscaping. 11
Requiring the developers to dedicate the land for these improvements is a reasonable means of

8
  See U.S. CONST., amend. V. (“nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.”)The
Supreme Court has interpreted the Takings Clause as limiting a government’s ability to impose conditions on
development. Furthermore, “[t]he Utah Constitution reinforces the protection of private property against
uncompensated governmental takings . . ..” B.A.M I., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 31, 128 P.3d at 1168. See also UTAH CONST. art.
I, § 22 (“Private property shall not be taken or damaged for public use without just compensation.”)
9
   See, e.g., Call v. West Jordan, 606 P.2d 217, 219 (Utah 1980). (“As undeveloped land is improved, it is also
important that some provision for flood control be made.”).
10
   Call, 606 P.2d at 219 (Court endorsed the desirability of public recreational facilities, such as parks and trails); see
also UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-8-8 (Cities may establish pedestrian walkways).
11
    See Carrier v. Lindquist, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18, 37 P.3d 1112, 1117 (Cities authorized to establish and improve
roads); see also UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-8-8. The dedication includes curb and gutter along 400 North.


Advisory Opinion – Grotegut/Spanish Fork City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 29, 2008 – page 5 of 8 pages
accomplishing the City’s objectives. 12 Since the City’s legitimate interests are promoted by the
dedication, the first prong of § 10-9a-508 is satisfied.

The City must also show that the second prong of the test has been met. 13 With regard to the
“nature” aspect of the test, the problem stemming from the proposed development seems to be
the increased concentration of population from approximately 350 new homes, along with some
increase in traffic on local streets. The solution proposed by the City is a trail along 400 North,
plus drainage control, street improvements, and landscaping. The need for drainage control,
street improvements, a trail system, and landscaping, can be attributed, at least in part, to the
impact of the new development on the PUD. Therefore, the exaction is related in nature to the
impact of the development.

However, the City has provided no information about the costs associated with the dedication
requirement. As has been discussed, the B.A.M. II court held that the analysis must include a
comparison of the cost to the City resulting from the impact of the development against the cost
to the developer to dedicate the land. The “needs” caused by the development includes the
impact on the City’s trail system, along with the need for increased stormwater drainage. These
costs are measured by the “impact” of the new development, and may be different than the cost
of the land to be dedicated. 14 Instead, the City’s cost is measured by the cost necessary to meet
the increased needs due to the new development, which may be not be the same as the cost to
acquire the land directly. Absent an analysis of the costs, and a showing that the costs are roughly
equivalent, the excaction must be deemed invalid and cannot be imposed by the City.

Mr. Grotegut’s parcel is part of the entire PUD area. The City has granted additional density in
the PUD in exchange for dedication of the trail. Mr. Grotegut has benefited from the additional
density by receiving value in exchange for transferring his portion density to KDNJ. It is
therefore appropriate that the entire PUD be used to determine the level of impact and allocation
of costs, rather than Mr. Grotegut’s smaller parcel alone. If the cost of assuaging the need is
approximately equal to the value of the land and improvements to be dedicated, the exaction
satisfies the “rough proportionality” (or “rough equivalency”) test. If the City’s cost to address
the impacts is less than the value of the land and improvements, the City will either have to




12
    Note that the first step of the evaluation under § 10-9a-508(1)(a) requires an essential link between the exaction
and a legitimate governmental interest. This first prong of the test does not require a connection between the
exaction and a need attributable to new development. As has been discussed, the “nature aspect” expressed in § 10-
9a-508(1)(b) concerns the relationship between the exaction and the need created by new development. B.A.M. II,
2008 UT 45, ¶ 10.
13
   See B.A.M. I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 39, 128 P.2d at 1169-70 (Rough proportionality analysis “include[s] the imposition of
a burden on the governmental entity to make ‘some sort of individualized determination that the required dedication
is related both in nature and extent to the impact of the proposed development’”)(quoting Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391).
14
   The decision in B.A.M. II emphasized that the cost would be determined at the time of the exaction. Therefore, the
cost of acquiring the land would be the fair market value, which is exactly the value of the land to the developer.
However, the cost of assuaging the impact may be different than merely the cost of the land to be dedicated.


Advisory Opinion – Grotegut/Spanish Fork City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 29, 2008 – page 6 of 8 pages
modify its condition, or compensate the land owners for amounts that exceed the cost of the
impact. 15

     II.     The City is not Obligated to Approve an Additional Lot on 400 North.

Because of restrictions in the Spanish Fork City Code, the City could deny Mr. Grotegut’s
request for an additional lot on 400 North. The City’s standards for street improvements prohibit
new lots with direct access from arterial or major collector streets. See Spanish Fork City Code,
§ 39.20.030(G). In addition, § 15.3.24.090(F) of the City Code prohibits flag lots in new
subdivisions. These two provisions preclude the alternative proposed by Mr. Grotegut for a new
lot to the west of his existing home. Access from 400 North is precluded, if the street is an
arterial or major collector road.16 Furthermore, the alternative access, via a driveway or lane
from an interior cul-de-sac, is also prohibited, as that would result in the creation of a “flag” lot.

Mr. Grotegut maintains that the density approved for his parcel allows at least one additional lot,
so he should permitted to develop a lot on the west of his home. However, the number of
allowable lots is not the determining factor. Based on the plat maps, Mr. Grotegut could develop
3-4 lots along 400 North. 17 The City Code, however, prohibits new lots with access from a
major street, and also prevents flag lots. 18 Mr. Grotegut’s property is subject to the zoning
regulations of the City Code. 19 In this case, those regulations prevent development of the lot in
the manner he has proposed. If Mr. Grotegut would like to take advantage of the additional lots,
he would need to reconfigure his design in a manner permitted by City Ordinances.

                                                  Conclusion
The City’s condition that Mr. Grotegut dedicate a 28-foot strip of his property for a trail, curb
and gutter, and storm drainage constitutes an “exaction” under state and federal law. A local
government may impose an exaction on property development, but the exaction must satisfy the
Nolan/Dolan “rough proportionality” analysis. The requirement promotes the legitimate
governmental objectives of street improvement, development of recreational facilities, and

15
   The “rough equivalency” analysis also applies to the costs to install improvements, in addition to the cost of
dedicating the land. Because no information concerning impacts or costs have been submitted, it is not possible for
this Opinion to determine whether the exaction is valid.
16
   The materials submitted for this Opinion do not conclusively identify 400 North as either an arterial or major
collector street, but there are references in Planning Commission and City Council minutes that strongly imply such
a status.
17
   The extra lot apparently fits within the allowable density for the property. The City’s objections stemmed from
the access issues.
18
   It appears that a plat was proposed which included 24 lots with no new lots on 400 North. It is not clear why this
proposal is undesirable.
19
   “[A]n owner of property holds it subject to zoning ordinances enacted pursuant to a [city's] police power.” Smith
Inv. Co. v. Sandy City, 958 P.2d 245, 252 (Ct. App. Utah 1998) (quoting Western Land Equities v. City of Logan, 617
P.2d 388, 390 (Utah 1980)). The access restrictions were in place before Mr. Grotegut applied for development, so
he does not have the right to develop a new lot that would violate the City’s ordinances. He does, however, have the
right to maintain the access that already exists to his home.



Advisory Opinion – Grotegut/Spanish Fork City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 29, 2008 – page 7 of 8 pages
control of storm and flood waters. Thus, the first prong of the “rough proportionality” analysis is
met.

A recent decision from the Utah Supreme Court held that “roughly proportional” means the same
as “roughly equivalent” in nature and extent. This means that the cost to the developer of
dedicating property must be roughly equal to the cost that would be incurred by the local
government to address the impact caused by new development. The City’s condition on Mr.
Grotegut’s development must satisfy this analysis. Since no information concerning the
respective costs has been submitted, this Opinion cannot determine if the City’s condition
satisfies this aspect of the analysis. Absent this analysis, with a showing that the cost of the
impact is roughly equal to the cost of the exaction, the exaction cannot be imposed.

The City was not obligated to approve an additional lot on 400 North, because to do so violated
the City’s ordinances. The City’s Code prohibits new lots with access from major collector or
arterial streets, and it also prohibits “flag” lots. The proposed lot would either be a flag lot, or
would require access from 400 North. Since this is prohibited by the City Code, the lot should
not be approved. Even though the additional lot may be permissible under the density applicable
to the parcel, the restrictions of the City’s Code prohibit the proposed lot.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Grotegut/Spanish Fork City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 29, 2008 – page 8 of 8 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Kimberly Robinson, City Recorder
              Spanish Fork City
              40 S. Main St.
              Spanish Fork, UT 84660

On this ___________ Day of July, 2008, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
