                     Advisory Opinion #95
                            Parties: Lisa and Brad Wilson and Park City
                                        Issued: January 31, 2011

                                        TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      B: Conditional Uses

A conditional use permit was properly granted, because it was not shown that the
amount of open space was miscalculated.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   GREG BELL
Lieutenant Governor



                                         ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:               Lisa & Brad Wilson

      Local Government Entity:                     Park City Municipal Corporation

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:         SR Silver Lake LLC

      Type of Property:                            Commercial Condominium Development

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:               January 31, 2011

      Opinion Authored By:                         Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
                                                   Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                   Issues
      Did Park City properly and legally approve the conditional use application for a condominium
      project (“Project”) on the North Silver Lake Subdivision Lot 2B?



                                   Summary of Advisory Opinion
      The rules governing the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman limit this Advisory Opinion
      to the question of whether the Conditional Use Permit, issued by Park City to develop the Silver
      Lake Lodge, was properly granted. The Wilsons contend that the Conditional Use Permit was
      illegally granted, because it lacks the required open space. According to the Wilsons, the
      development lacks the required open space because the acreage allocation was improperly and
      illegally increased several years ago. It is unnecessary, however, to determine whether or not the
      acreage was properly adjusted years ago. Even assuming that the Wilsons are correct that the
      acreage was improperly adjusted, the development still meets the open space requirement when
      the improper adjustment is removed. Accordingly, the Wilsons have failed to establish that
      granting the conditional use permit was an illegal act.
                                                 Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Lisa & Brad Wilson on June 7, 2010. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Janet M. Scott, City Recorder for Park City, at
445 Marsac Ave, P.O. Box 1480, Park City, Utah 84060. The return receipt was signed and
delivered on June 16, 2010, indicating it had been received by the City. A copy of the materials
regarding the request was also sent to Thomas G. Bennett, attorney for SR Silver Lake LLC
(“SRSL”), at Ballard Spahr LLP, One Utah Center, Suite 800, 201 South Main Street, Salt Lake
City, Utah 84111. Polly Samuels McLean, assistant attorney for Park City, submitted a response
via email to the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, which was received on June 16, 2010
and which included a copy of the City’s staff report on the appeals of the Planning Commission’s
conditional use approval of the Project. Mr. Bennett submitted a response on June 18, 2010.
Over the ensuing several weeks, both parties sent multiple submissions, by email and regular
mail, some with attachments and exhibits.

                                                Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Lisa and Brad Wilson, and received
                 by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, June 7, 2010.
     2.          Response submitted on behalf of the City by Polly Samuels McLean, assistant
                 attorney, dated June 16, 2010.
     3.          Response submitted on behalf of SR Silver Lake LLC by Thomas G. Bennett of
                 Ballard Spahr, dated June 18, 2010, and all attached documents.
     4.          City Council Staff Report on the appeals of the Planning Commission’s conditional
                 use approval, dated June 24, 2010, and all attached documents.
     5.          Letter dated June 30, 2010 from Mr. Bennett.
     6.          City Council Staff Report approval of the conditional use permit, dated July 2, 2010.
     7.          Letter dated July 9, 2010 from Ms. Wilson, with attachments.
     8.          Letter dated July 22, 2010 from Mr. Bennett, with attachments.
     9.          Letter dated August 16, 2010 from Ms. Wilson, with attachments.
     10.         Letter dated September 7, 2010 from Mr. Bennett, with attachments.
     11.         Letter dated September 14, 2010 from Ms. Wilson.

Advisory Opinion – Wilson/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 31, 2011 – page 2 of 7 pages
     12.         Letter dated October 7, 2010 from Ms. McLean, with attachments.
     13.         Email dated October 12, 2010 from Ms. Wilson, with attachments.
     14.         Letter dated November 18, 2010 from Ms. McLean.
     15.         Request for a Record Review, submitted by Lisa Wilson, dated December 2, 2010,
                 and all attached documents.
     16.         Email dated December 3, 2010 from Ms. McLean.
     17.         Letter dated December 6, 2010 from Ms. Wilson, with attachments.
     18.         Letter dated January 14, 2011 from Ms. McLean.

                                               Background
SR Silver Lake LLC is the owner and developer of a 5.96-acre parcel of real property located in
Park City, Utah known as Lot 2B. Lot 2B is located within the Deer Valley Master Plan
Development (“DVMPD”), and is part of the North Silver Lake Subdivision. Under the
DVMPD, Lot 2B is a development lot and permitted a density of 54 residential units, 14,552
square feet of commercial and support space, a height limit of 45 feet, and most importantly for
this Advisory Opinion, a minimum open space requirement of 60%.

Lot 2B was created in 1997 by the recording of a plat that divided a lot of approximately ten
acres into two lots – Lot 2B and a 4.03 acre parcel titled Lot 2D. Lot 2D was expressly reserved
on the plat as open space for the benefit of adjoining lots 2A and 2B. 1 Lot 2A has been
developed, and ¼ of Lot 2D has been allocated as open space to that development. Accordingly,
three quarters of the acreage of lot 2D, 3.02 acres, remains allocated as open space to Lot 2B.
Lot 2B has remained undeveloped since that time.

Since the DVMPD plan was first adopted in 1977, it has been amended multiple times. 2 Relevant
to this matter are the 6th, 7th, and 8th amendments. In the sixth amendment, issued October 10,
1990, the total acreage of the North Silver Lake Development was shown to be 108.34 acres. The
seventh amendment, dated April 14, 1993, showed the total acreage to be 105.94 acres, a
decrease of 2.4 acres. The eighth amendment, dated April 25, 2001, 3 shows the total acreage of
the North Silver Lake as 108.22 acres, an increase of 2.28 acres. Those increases and decreases
are totals for the entire development. Each amendment shows multiple adjustments to the size of
various lots, both increases and decreases, with the 2.4 decrease (7th Amendment) and the 2.28
increase (8th Amendment) being the net sum of the various adjustments. Neither amendment
contains an express or ready explanation of the reasons for the adjustments.

In 2008, SR Silver Lake LLC applied for a conditional use permit to develop lot 2B with a 54-
unit condominium project. The project consists of 38 units in four multi-story buildings in the
center of Lot 2B and 16 single family and duplex condominiums situated around the perimeter.
After many appearances before the Park City Planning Commission, including one approval that

1
   The plat contains a notation stating that “Pursuant to the NORTH SILVER LAKE MASTER PLAN
DEVELOPMENT AMENDMENT, portions of Lot 2D are allocated to Lot 2A and 2B for purposes of open space
calculation.”
2
  The DVMPD is currently on its tenth amendment.
3
  The eighth amendment was issued nearly four years after the Plat that created lots 2B and 2D was recorded.

Advisory Opinion – Wilson/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 31, 2011 – page 3 of 7 pages
was appealed and remanded, the commission finally approved the revised conditional use permit
on April 28, 2010. According to the City, the Project site plan as finally approved contains 70.6%
of open space, including the available open space from lot 2D.

On May 10, 2010, Lisa Wilson filed an appeal of the CUP approval with the City. 4 Ms. Wilson’s
appeal raised several allegations, primarily concerning failure to properly provide notice of
several recent and past actions by the City, and also concerning compatibility of the development
with surrounding properties. She also alleges that the 60% open space requirement for North
Silver Lake has not been met with the proposed development on Lot 2B. On June 24, 2010 the
Park City Council reviewed the appeal and denied it. On June 7, 2010, Ms. Wilson submitted a
request for Advisory Opinion.

                                                     Analysis
I. An Advisory Opinion is Available to the Wilsons on the Conditional Use Permit Approval

Park City has asked this Office to review whether an Advisory Opinion in the present matter is
available to the Wilsons. Park City points out that the Wilson’s request consists of a challenge to
the propriety and legality of the 1993 7th Amendment and the 2001 8th Amendment to the Deer
Valley Master Plan, and the 1997 Subdivision Plat. Park City argues that those documents, being
more than a decade old, are beyond review and are not properly subjects of an Advisory Opinion.

Advisory Opinions from the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are limited in both
subject matter and timing. The timing limitation permits Advisory Opinions only when they have
been requested prior to the final appeal decision on the related land use application. UTAH CODE
§ 13-43-205. 5 A local appeal authority’s involvement becomes final not only when it issues its
final decision, but also when the deadline to appeal passes. Advisory Opinions are unavailable
when requested after that date.

The revised conditional use permit in this matter was granted on April 28, 2010, and was
appealed by the Wilsons on May 10, 2010. The appeal was heard and denied by the City on June
24th, 2010. Ms. Wilson submitted her request for Advisory Opinion on June 7th, 2010, several
days before the final decision on her appeal by the local appeal authority. Therefore, her request
for Advisory Opinion was timely with respect to the propriety of the Conditional Use Permit.

There is no question, however, that the deadlines to challenge the 1993 7th Amendment, the 1997
Plat, and the 2001 8th Amendment have passed. Accordingly, an Advisory Opinion to directly
challenge those Amendments would be improper. The appropriate question, therefore, is not
whether those previous amendments were properly adopted, properly noticed, or legal, but only



4
  This appeal was filed within the time limit for filing an appeal under the Utah Code and the Park City Land
Management Code.
5
  “At any time before a final decision on a land use application by a local appeal authority . . . a local government or
a potentially afflicted person may, in accordance with Section 13-43-206, request a written advisory opinion . . . .”
UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.

Advisory Opinion – Wilson/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 31, 2011 – page 4 of 7 pages
whether the present conditional use permit, based on those prior amendments, was properly
granted. 6

II. The Wilsons have Failed to Establish that the CUP was Improperly Granted

In the request for Advisory Opinion, the Wilsons contend that Deer Valley’s approval of a permit
to develop a 330,000 square foot hotel is inappropriate in a residential neighborhood. The
Wilsons’ request mentions the requirement that the Silver Lake development maintain 60% open
space, and questions whether the open space requirement was changed in 2001 without proper
notification. Extensive information related to the Wilsons’ appeal of the conditional use permit
was then provided with or closely following the request, most of which raised questions about
whether the actions of the City were properly noticed, and whether the ski runs shown on the plat
are properly designated open space. In accordance with OPRO policy, the request was provided
to the City, and the City responded. Materials submitted by the City were provided to the
Wilsons, and so forth as each of the multiple submissions were exchanged. Through the course
of those submissions, the issue in contention distilled and focused somewhat to a question of
whether the development violates the minimum open space requirement. Although the history
and arguments are complicated, the issue in contention can be summarized thus: in the 1993 7th
Amendment to the Deer Valley Master Plan, the North Silver Lake Development reduced by 2.4
acres. Then, with the 2001 8th Amendment, the North Silver Lake Development was increased
by 2.28 acres. However, the perimeter of North Silver Lake did not change in either of these
Amendments. The Wilsons contend that the two-acre reduction occurred because the Silver
Dollar and Belleterre ski runs were excluded from the North Silver Lake Development 1993, and
that in 2001, they were improperly returned. The Wilsons contend that those ski runs should not
have been returned as they are now commercial private property owned by Deer Valley. Without
those acres, the Wilsons contend, the North Silver Lake development lacks the required 60%
open space.

In Utah, a land use decision will be upheld if it is not arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. See UTAH
CODE § 10-9a-801(3)(a)(ii); Fox v. Park City, 2008 UT 85 ¶11. A decision to grant or deny a
conditional use permit is not arbitrary or capricious if it is supported by substantial evidence on
the record, and is not illegal if it complies with the applicable laws, statutes, and ordinances:
“First, a land use authority's decision is arbitrary or capricious only if it is not “supported by
substantial evidence in the record.” A land use authority's decision is illegal if it “violates a law,
statute, or ordinance in effect at the time the decision was made.” Id.
6
   The very recent Utah Supreme Court case of Gillmor v. Summit County, 2010 UT 69, raises some interesting
questions about whether and how the 1993 7th Amendment, the 1997 Plat, and the 2001 8th Amendment can be
challenged alongside the present challenge. Gillmor holds that “once petitioners have satisfied the jurisdictional
requirements . . . of CLUDMA, they may assert any and all claims related to the alleged arbitrary, capricious, or
illegal nature of a county’s land use decision--including facial challenges to the zoning ordinance upon which the
decision was based.” The Wilson’s challenge to the present Conditional Use Permit is based upon perceived
discrepancies in the open space calculations in the 1993 7th Amendment to the Deer Valley Master Plan, and the
2001 8th Amendment to the Deer Valley Master Plan. An interesting question arises whether Gillmor extends to the
present matter, and would permit the Wilsons to challenge the 1993 and 2001 amendments as part of their present
challenge of the Conditional Use Permit. Gillmor does differ somewhat from the present case. However, we need
not decide whether Gillmor applies to the present matter, because, as will be shown, the conditional use permit was
properly granted no matter how the prior plan amendments are interpreted.

Advisory Opinion – Wilson/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 31, 2011 – page 5 of 7 pages
The Wilsons argue the approval of the conditional use permit was illegal, because it violates the
open space requirement. Under Utah law, the Wilsons have the burden to prove that the decision
to grant the conditional use permit was in error. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-705. The Wilsons have not
met this burden. Specifically, they have not shown that the development does not meet the open
space requirements.

There appears to be no dispute that, if the 2.28 acres are included in the development (as the City
contends they should be), the development has over 70% open space and the 60% minimum
open space requirement is met. The Wilsons contend that the 1993 acreage is correct, and the
2.28 acres added in the 2001 Amendment should not be included. 7 They contend further that if
those acres are not included, the open space requirements are not met. However, the Wilsons’
calculations are in error. The Wilsons have removed the 2.28 acres only from the allocated open
space, rather than from the entire development. The following chart illustrates the difference
between the Wilsons’ and the City’s calculation of the open space requirement:

                             2.28 acres included                                    2.28 acres removed
                                (undisputed)
             Total Acreage in Open space       Open space %          Total Acreage       Open space        Open space
             Development        acreage        (open /total)         in Development      acreage           %
                                                                                                           (open/total)

Wilson 9.74                               6.915   70%                9.74                4.635        48%
                                                                                         (6.915-2.28)

Park         9.74                         6.915   70%                7.46                4.635        62%
City                                                                 (9.74-2.28)         (6.915-2.28)



Despite their calculations, the Wilsons have not argued that the 2.28 acres should be subtracted
from the open space allocation only but not removed from the entire development. In fact, they
argue that the 2.28 acres represent private property, ski runs owned by Deer Valley Resort, and
have not been part of the Silver Lake development since 1993. Accordingly, given the Wilsons’
own arguments, the 2.28 acres should be subtracted from the total acreage for Silver Lake.

7
  With regard to their argument that the 2.28 acres should not be included, the Wilsons have done a remarkable job
uncovering the history of the project. However, despite their diligence and persistence in uncovering evidence more
than a decade old, many factual gaps remain, and it is not clear that the 2.28 acres should not be included. Although
it is clear that the total allocation reduced in 1993 by 2.4 acres, and that in increased in 2001 by 2.28 acres, nothing
in those documents explain those variations, or indicate that those variations have an easy explanation. The
Amendments themselves each show variances in multiple lots, both increases and decreases, on the lots in question
and other lots not in question. The Wilsons assume that those variations represent the removal and the return of the
ski runs, but nothing has been provided to show conclusively that the 2.4 acre reduction was to create the ski run, or
that the 2.28 increase was returning the ski run to the development allocation. The Wilsons do point to a letter from
Bob Wells, Vice President of Deer Valley Resort's Real Estate Development, dated November 16, 1996. The letter
discusses the history of the development and open space allocation, and discusses the creation of the ski runs, but
cannot be conclusively read to indicate that the 1993/2001 discrepancy represents the ski runs, nor that the 2.28
acres should not be included in the open space allocation for the development.

Advisory Opinion – Wilson/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 31, 2011 – page 6 of 7 pages
The 1993 and 2001 Amendments themselves also support that conclusion. The 2.4 acre decrease
in 1993, and the 2.28 acre increase in 2001, represent a net decrease and increase after
adjustments are made to multiple lots in the development, including lots that are not in
controversy. In fact, in 2001, when the development was said to increase by 2.28 acres, Lot 2B is
shown to have decreased 2.09 acres. The amendments show the 2.28 increase belongs to the
entire development, not just to the open space allocation. Accordingly, if the 2.28 increase was
improper, the acres can only be removed from the entire development, not just from the open
space allocation.

Moreover, for the Wilsons’ calculation to be accurate, the ski runs would still need to be part of
the development, but not available to be counted as open space. This would require a showing
that the 2.28 acre increase was specifically allocated in 2001 to lots 2B and/or 2D as open space.
Nothing in the documents provided could be found to support that conclusion. Indeed, if the 2.28
acres represent the ski runs, they are open ski runs, and appear to meet the definition in the Park
City Land Management Code for open space. 8 Accordingly, if they are part of the development,
and are also open space, very clear evidence would appear necessary to justify a finding that
open space in the project is not available open space for the project. To the contrary, the
documents available, and in particular the 1997 subdivision plat that creates Lot 2B and 2D
clearly indicates the opposite – that the ski runs are part of Lot 2D and all of Lot 2D is reserved
open space for Lot 2B. This cuts strongly in favor of the City’s calculation. Accordingly, if the
2.28 acres are excluded, the development still has more than the required 60% open space.

As shown, the Wilsons believe that without the 2.28 acres in the allocation, the development has
only 48% open space. However, the Wilsons have failed to meet their burden to show that the
2.28 acres should be subtracted only from the open space allocation and not from the entire
development. With the 2.28 acres removed, the development still has approximately 62% open
space. Accordingly, it is not necessary to determine whether the 2.28 were illegally or improperly
added in 2001.

                                                  Conclusion
The Wilsons have failed to meet their burden to prove that the 2.28 acre discrepancy makes the
decision to grant the conditional use permit illegal. Whether or not the 2.28 acres are included,
the development still meets the 60% open space requirement. The Conditional Use Permit was
therefore legally granted.



Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

8
    The Park City Land Management Code defines Open Space in relevant part as follows:
           1.170. OPEN SPACE.
           (A) Open Space, Landscaped. Landscaped Areas, which may include local government facilities,
           necessary public improvements, and playground equipment, recreation amenities, public
           landscaped and hard-scaped plazas, and public pedestrian amenities, but excluding Buildings or
           Structures.
Advisory Opinion – Wilson/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 31, 2011 – page 7 of 7 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Janet M. Scott
              Park City Recorder
              445 Marsac Avenue
              Park City, Utah 84060

On this ___________ Day of January, 2011, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
