                       Advisory Opinion #15
    Parties: Brian Hofheins and Wasatch County, Wasatch County Special Service District #1
                                    Issued: April 27, 2007


                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES

                                        Exactions on Development


A requirement that a developer dedicate water rights is an exaction. An exaction must satisfy
rough proportionality analysis. There was no showing that the amount of water required is
roughly proportionate to the impact of the proposed subdivisions.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                                       State of Utah
                                       Department of Commerce
                                       OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor




                                                             ADVISORY OPINION
                             Proving Water Rights as a Condition of Property Development


            Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                  Bryan Hofheins
            Local Government Entity:                                        Wasatch County
                                                                            Wasatch County Special Service District #1

            Applicant for the Land Use Approval:                            Bryan Hofheins
            Project:                                                        Subdivision of Two Parcels in Wallsburg

            Date of this Advisory Opinion:                                  April 27, 2007

                                                                             Issue

            Is Wasatch County's requirement that a property owner obtain four acre-feet of water rights per
            acre for two proposed subdivisions a valid exaction under § 17-27a-507 of the Utah Code?

                                                         Summary of Advisory Opinion

            The county's requirement that the property owner obtain water rights and transfer joint
            ownership to a special service district is an exaction. In order to be valid, this exaction must
            meet the two-part standard imposed by § 17-27a-507 of the Utah Code. This statute adopts the
            constitutional takings analysis of the U.S. Supreme Court in the Nollan and Dolan cases. The
            county's exaction meets the first prong of that analysis, because there is an essential link between
            the county's legitimate objective of ensuring adequate water supplies and requiring property
            owners to provide water rights for new development.

            The exaction, however, does not meet the second prong of the test required by the statute. There
            has been no showing that the amount of water required is roughly proportionate to the impact of
            the proposed subdivisions. The county bases the requirement on a finding that the properties had
            been "historically irrigated," which ignores the intended agricultural use of the new
            development. The county's water requirement appears to be derived from the irrigation duty for
            the area, and not on the proposed use of the properties. Furthermore, even if historic use is the
            basis for the amount of water required, there is evidence that the properties were irrigated with
            one-half of the water the county now expects the property owner to provide.


160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 •
www.comnierce.utah.gov
                                                                                                                         IITAH
                                                                                                                         L I F E   E L E V A T E D '
                                                  Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final decision by
a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of U.C.A. §13-43-205. An advisory opinion is meant
to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative remedies, of significant land use
questions so that those involved in a land use application or other specific land use disputes can have an
independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve
differences in a fair and neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as
explained at the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues
in the courts.
The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from Bryan Hofheins on January 22, 2007. A letter
with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return receipt requested, to Thomas Low, Salt Lake
City, at 805 W. 100 South, Heber City, Utah 84032. The return receipt was signed and was received on
February 23, 2007, indicating that Mr. Low had received it.
                                                 Evidence

The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory opinion
were reviewed prior to its completion:
     1.      Request for an Advisory Opinion filed January 22, 2007 with the Office of the Property
             Rights Ombudsman by Bryan Hofheins
     2.      Ordinance No. 10.01.01 of the Wasatch County Code, "Adequate Water Rights Required"
     3.      Ordinance No. 16.07.14 of the Wasatch County Code, "Other Requirements"
     4.      "Water Development Review Data Sheet — Scarpino Subdivision" (Undated, presumed
             late 2006)
     5.      "Water Development Review Data Sheet — Thompson Subdivision" (Undated, presumed
             late 2006)
     6.      "Proposed Determination of Water Rights by the State Engineer Provo River Division Round
             Valley Subdivision Book 1" dated May 1, 1984 (Available via Utah Division of Water
             Rights Web Site, Code 55, Book 1)
     7.      Telephone conversations and emails from Bryan Hofheins
     8.      Telephone conversation with Steve Ferrell, Wasatch County Water Advisory Board
                                             Assumed Facts
     1.      This Opinion focuses solely on the requirement that the developer obtain water shares in order
             to gain approval for the subdivisions. It is assumed that the proposed subdivisions would
             meet other development requirements of the county.
     2.      This Opinion also assumes that sufficient water shares are available for purchase by the
             property owners from the water companies, and that purchase of the shares for the




Advisory Opinion – Hofheins/Wallsburg/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 27, 2007 – Page 2 of 9
             intended use does not violate any of the articles, bylaws, or resolutions of the respective
             water companies, and is not otherwise illegal or impossible.

                                                Background

Bryan Hofheins has proposed two subdivisions on two separate parcels located in Wallsburg, Utah. The
first proposal would subdivide a 15 acre parcel into three lots (the "Scarpino Subdivison"), and the
second would subdivide a 30 acre parcel into five lots (the "Thompson Subdivision"). The two parcels are
not contiguous, and are owned by two separate entities incorporated by Mr. Hofheins and his business
partner. The purpose of the subdivisions is to create large residential lots with animal rights. The
properties are both zoned "Residential-Agricultural" (RA-5), which allows residences with agricultural
uses on lots no smaller than five acres.

In order to gain approval of the subdivisions, the Wasatch County Water Advisory Board ("Board")
required that the property owners acquire the following:
              Scarpino Subdivision                             Thompson Subdivision
Obtain the following amount of water rights from       Obtain the following amount of water rights from
the Main Creek Irrigation Company:                     the Hobble Creek Irrigation Company:
     .45 acre-feet of water per lot (for culinary           .45 acre-feet of water per lot (for culinary
     water), or 1.35 acre-feet total, plus                  water), or 2.25 acre-feet total, plus
     A total of 58.00 acre-feet (for agricultural           A total of 111.50 acre -feet (for
     irrigation).                                           agricultural irrigation)

Steve Ferrell of the Water Advisory Board confirmed that subdivision approval was conditioned on the
property owner obtaining the amount of water described above. Mr. Ferrell also stated that on average, a
share in both the Main Creek and Hobble Creek Irrigation Companies equals four acre-feet of water.
Assuming those averages are correct, the property owners needed a total of 15 shares of Main Creek
Company stock for the Scarpino Subdivision, and 29 shares of Hobble Creek Company stock for the
Thompson Subdivision in order to satisfy the Board's requirement. The County further required that
ownership of the shares be held jointly by the owner of each lot and the Wasatch County Special Service
Area #1. According to the Water Advisory Board, this condition was imposed to discourage sale of the
water shares.
Mr. Ferrell is familiar with the area, and in a telephone conversation stated that the Scarpino property had
eight shares of Main Creek stock when it was irrigated, but the previous owners sold five shares
sometime around 1990, leaving three shares for the parcel. Accordingly, at the time of the subdivision
applications the owners of the Scarpino parcel possessed 3 shares of Main Creek stock. The ovvners of
the Thompson parcel had 15 shares of Hobble Creek stock. Mr. Hofheins found that shares in the two
companies are available for purchase, with the cost




Advisory Opinion – Hofheins/Wallsburg/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 27, 2007 – Page 3 of 9
being in the range of $9,000 to $14,000 per share. Mr. Hofheins has not purchased any
additional shares for the subdivisions.

The Board imposed the water requirement based on Section 16.07.14(5) of the Wasatch County
Code. That subsection applies to properties located in an RA-5 zone and provides the following,
under "water requirements:"

         (a) Each dwelling shall be considered a fulltime residence and must have
        sufficient culinary water available as required by the State Water Engineer and/or
        governing water district for residential use only.

         (b) Other Requirements. Each dwelling must have sufficient water for outside
        irrigation to provide water for a minimum of one-quarter (.25) acres of landscaped
        area, plus any water required for irrigation of any agricultural use intended. All
        lots must prove sufficient water to irrigate any land, which has been historically
        irrigated. An appropriate reduction acreage may be given for: 1) water which is
        converted to provide culinary water service for the dwelling, and 2) certain
        surface areas that do not require irrigation and that may be created in association
        with the development of the land. These areas include, but are not limited to,
        building pads, sidewalks, roadways, driveways and parking areas. The amount of
        water required for outside irrigation will be determined by the Water Resources
        Director, based upon the needs of the property after taking into consideration the
        existing irrigation patterns and any landscaping or agricultural plans of the owner.
        The Director will also be guided by the policies of the irrigation company
        involved as well as the State Engineer.

Wasatch County Code § 16.07.14(5)(a-b). The Water Advisory Board determined the water
requirements based on its understanding of the needs for agricultural cultivation and culinary
service. According to the Board, the agricultural needs in the area were four acre-feet of water
per acre, and the annual culinary requirements are .45 acre-feet per residence. There was no
evidence of an individualized analysis of the water needs of the proposed subdivisions.

In 1984, the State Engineer's office prepared a general determination of the water duty in the
area including the Main Creek drainage. That determination found the following water duty
allowances:

                Irrigation: 4.0 acre-feet per acre per calendar year . .

                Stockwatering purposes: 25 gallons per day per equivalent livestock unit.

                Domestic or household use: .45 acre-feet per year, (401.76 gallons per
                day), per residential unit.




Advisory Opinion – Hofheins/Wallsburg/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 27, 2007 – Page 4 of 9
    "Proposed Determination of Water Rights by the State Engineer Provo River Division Round Valley
    Subdivision Book 1," May 1, 1984, ¶¶ 8-10.1 The duty amounts are consistent with other determinations made
    in central Utah.



                                                       Analysis

"Exactions are conditions imposed by governmental entities on developers for the issuance of a building
permit or subdivision plat approval." B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 34,
128 P.3d 1161, 1169. A requirement that water rights be obtained or established as a condition to obtain
approval for a subdivision is thus an exaction, and must be analyzed as a potential constitutional taking
according to the relevant law.

Section 17-27a-507 of the Utah Code authorizes counties to impose exactions on new development,
but prescribes limits on that authority:
           A county may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in a land use
           application provided that:
            (1) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each exaction;
           and
            (2) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact of
           the proposed development.
UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-507.2 The Utah Supreme Court noted that the language of this statute was
borrowed directly from the U.S. Supreme Court analyses in Nollan v. California Coastal Comm'n, 483
U.S. 825, 107 S.Ct. 3141 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374, 114 S.Ct. 2309 (1994).
See B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 41, 128 P.2d at 1170. In those two cases, the Supreme Court promulgated
rules for determining when an exaction is valid under the federal constitution's Takings Clause.3 This has
come to be known as the Nollan/Dolan "rough proportionality" test, and that two-part analysis is
reflected in § 17-27a-507. The county's requirement that the developer prove a certain amount of water rights
must therefore meet both standards required by § 17-27a-507.




1
  An "equivalent livestock unit" is 1 horse or cow, 5 sheep, goats, or swine, or 33 chickens, turkeys, other fowl, or small
animals. 25 gallons per unit per day equals .028 acre-feet per unit per year.
2
  There is a corresponding statute applicable to municipalities found at § 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code.
3
  See U.S. Const.., amend V. The Supreme Court has interpreted the Takings Clause as limiting a government's
ability to impose conditions on development. Furthermore, "[t]he Utah Constitution reinforces the protection of
private property against uncompensated governmental takings . . .." B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 31, 128 P.3d at 1168. See also
Utah Const. art. I, § 22.


Advisory Opinion – Hofheins/Wallsburg/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 27, 2007 – Page 5 of 9
      I. There is an Essential Link Between the Legitimate Government al Interest and the
          Requirement that Sufficient Water Rights be Obtained for the Proposed Subdivisions

 The county's condition that the developer obtain or prove water rights for the subdivided
properties meets the first part of the statutory analysis. Ensuring an adequate water supply is an
important objective for the county, particularly in Utah, where water is a scarce resource. See
Summit Water Distribution Co. v. Mountain Regional Water Special Serv. Dist, 2005 UT App.
66, ¶¶ 11-14, 108 P.3d 119, 121-122. Requiring a developer to provide water rights for a
proposed subdivision is a reasonable method to meet that objective.4 Thus, there is an essential
link between the county's objective to ensure adequate water supplies, and the requirement that
water rights be provided for the proposed subdivisions.
    2. There Have Been no Findings that the Requirement is Roughly Proportionate to the Impact of the
        Proposed Subdivisions

The condition proposed by the county does not pass the second part of the analysis required by § 17-27a-507.
The county has not adequately shown that the amount of water required by the county is roughly proportionate
to the impact caused by the proposed subdivisions. The county chose the amount of water necessary for
the proposed subdivisions without any evidence showing how that amount addresses the needs of the
proposed new development.

Section 16.07.14 of the Wasatch County Code requires that each dwelling in the RA-5 Zone have sufficient culinary
water, sufficient water for outside irrigation of a minimum of .25 acres of landscaping, "plus any water required
for irrigation of any agricultural use intended." Wasatch County Code, § 16.07.14(5)(b).

The amount of water was determined not because of the impact of the proposed subdivision, nor on the
amount of water necessary for the intended use, but supposedly due to a finding that the parcels had been
"historically irrigated." Using Section 16.07.14 of the Wasatch County Code, the Water Advisory Board
ascertained that there had been cultivation on the parcels in the past, and that four acre-feet per acre was
required to irrigate the land.

Even if historic irrigation is the measure, there is still no specific finding supporting the amount of water
required. According to the Water Advisory Board, the Scarpino parcel had eight shares of water (or ½
share per acre) when it was irrigated, and that the Thompson parcel also had only ½ share per acre. The county
has presented no evidence showing why the amount of water actually used for irrigation. in the past should now
be doubled for the subdivisions, which are proposing a different agricultural use.




4
  See, e.g., Acosta v. Big Bear Community Serv. Dist., 2004 Cal. App. Unpub. LEXIS 2253, at 23-24, (Cal. App 2004),
an unpublished opinion applying the Nollan/Dolan test to a requirement that water rights be conveyed to a public
entity as a condition of development approval. The California Court of Appeals found that dedication of water rights
from a property developer was a reasonable means of furthering the legitimate objective of ensuring adequate water
resources.

Advisory Opinion – Hofheins/Wallsburg/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 27, 2007 – Page 6 of 9
    There is also no showing that the amount of water required is tied to watering livestock, which is the proposed
    agricultural use of the subdivision. The developer intends to market the lots as large residential lots with animal
    rights, not for cultivation of crops. The county did not analyze water needs based on that proposed use, even
    though § 16.07.14 only requires sufficient water for the intended agricultural use.5

 The amount of water required for culinary use appears to be consistent with established standards in Utah.
Other local governments follow the standard established by the Utah Department of Environmental
Quality. (See Utah Admin. Code Rule R309-510-7, sources for residential water must provide a yearly average
of 146,000 gal/year/residence (or .45 acre-feet per year)).

On the other hand, the amount of water required for agricultural purposes appears to be based solely on the
irrigation duty determined by the State Engineer's office. While data from the State Engineer's office may
be useful in calculating the amount of water required for a specific development, the irrigation duty is only a
measure of the amount of water deemed necessary for beneficial irrigation in a given area, not a
recommendation for any specific use.6 Because the determinations of the State Engineer are not specific to
properties or use, they cannot be the sole source to determine amounts of water required for a specific
development.

It should also be noted that it is difficult to determine whether the county's measure of water is dictated by the
number of shares, or if the number of shares is dictated by the amount of water. The amount of water
available per share varies from year to year, depending upon precipitation, and the four acre-feet per
share is actually an average of -the water historically provided. Other irrigation companies in Wasatch County
have different average amounts.7

                                                      Conclusion

Wasatch County's requirement that a certain amount of water rights be proven in order to obtain
subdivision approval is an exaction which is subject to § 17- 27a-507 of the Utah Code. There is
an essential link between the county's legitimate interest in providing adequate water supplies for
future development and the requirement that a landowner provide sufficient water to meet the
needs of a proposed subdivision.

However, the county has not demonstrated that the amount of water rights required is roughly
proportionate to the impact of the proposed subdivision of the Scarpino and Thompson parcels.
There has been no showing that the proposed subdivisions need the amount of water required by
the county. Furthermore, the county's bases the water requirement on a conclusion that the



5
  Crop cultivation is feasible on the smaller lots of the proposed subdivisions, but not likely. The property owner
has suggested that a covenant be recorded with each lot in the subdivisions, defining the scope of agricultural activities
that can be conducted.
6
  See In re Green River Canal Co. v. Olds, 2004 UT 106, ¶ 10, fn. 2, 110 P.3d 666, 670, fn. 2. According to the State
Engineer's Office, the irrigation duty is based on the amount of water needed for alfalfa cultivation.
7
  A company in the Midway area reports 3 acre-feet per share, while another company in Wasatch County reports
9 acre-feet per share.

Advisory Opinion – Hofheins/Wallsburg/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 27, 2007 – Page 7 of 9
      properties had been "historically irrigated," although the historic irrigation on those properties actually used half
      the water the county now requires for the subdivisions.
      In addition, there has been no analysis demonstrating the amount of water required for the intended agricultural
      use. The landowner proposes to subdivide the parcels, and market them as large residential lots with animal rights.
      The county made no findings determining the amount of water necessary due to that proposed use. Such findings
      are required not only by the Utah Code, but also by § 16.07.14 of the Wasatch County Code, which only requires
      sufficient water for the intended agricultural use.
      This conclusion does not mean, however, that the county cannot require the developer to prove sufficient water, nor
      that the amount of water required by the county will be automatically less than four acre-feet per acre. The county
      must show that the amount of water rights required is roughly proportionate to the impact of the proposed
      subdivisions. The required amount may include sufficient rights to provide culinary water, irrigation for
      landscaping, and water for the proposed agricultural uses.
      For these reasons, it is the opinion of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman that Wasatch County's requirement
      that the owners of the Scarpino and Thompson properties prove ownership of four acre-feet of water per acre for
      their proposed subdivisions does not meet the requirements of Section 17-27a-507 of the Utah Code.


      Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
      Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
      NOTE:

      This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, § 13-42-205. It does not constitute
      legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of Utah or
      the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are based on a summary review of the
      factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may not reflect the opinion that
      might be expressed in another matter where the facts and circumstances are different or where
      the relevant law may have changed.

      While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding of the
      relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an interest in these
      issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own legal counsel and
      not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or advance his interest.




Advisory Opinion – Hofheins/Wallsburg/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 27, 2007 – Page 8 of 9
An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court's resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.




                                     MAILING CERTIFICATE

U.C.A. §13-43-206(10)(b) requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to the government
entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with U.C.A. §63-30d-401 (Notices Filed
Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address sholvn is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                Thomas Low
                Wasatch County Attorney
                805 W. 100 South
                Heber City, UT 84032
On this       Day of April, 2007, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.



                                                          Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                  _________________________________________




Advisory Opinion – Hofheins/Wallsburg/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 27, 2007 – Page 9 of 9
