                     Advisory Opinion #49
                  Parties: Jim Farrell, agent for Howard Kent and Grand County
                                         Issued: August 20, 2008

                                        TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      D: Exactions on Development
                      J: Requirements Imposed Upon Development

Requiring construction and dedication of a connector road (and a bond for the
improvements) is an exaction, which must satisfy rough proportionality analysis.
The condition was properly imposed, because it was proposed, discussed, and
approved by the County Council, which approved the recommendations made by
the Planning Commission. A local government may impose conditions on new
development, provided those conditions are expressed in a statute or ordinance,
or expressed in writing as part of the approval process.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                           State of Utah
                           Department of Commerce
JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
       Governor
                           OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN

 GARY R. HERBERT
 Lieutenant Governor



                                            ADVISORY OPINION

         Advisory Opinion Requested by:               Jim Farrell, agent for Howard Kent

         Local Government Entity:                     Grand County

         Project:                                     Pueblo Verde PUD

         Opinion Authored By:                         Su J. Chon, Attorney
                                                      Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:               August 20, 2008



                                                      Issue
         May the County require Developer to dedicate property and provide a bond for road
         improvements as a condition for approval of a proposed subdivision?



                                      Summary of Advisory Opinion
         The City’s requirement that the Developer dedicate property and provide a bond for road
         improvements as a condition for approval of a proposed subdivision is an exaction that must be
         analyzed using the “Nollan/Dolan” rough proportionality test found in UTAH CODE § 17-27a-
         507. The requirement promotes legitimate governmental interests, and thus satisfies the first part
         of the test. The City must also show, however, that the cost of the dedication is roughly
         equivalent to the amount associated with assuaging the impact attributable to the new
         development. Only if the cost of addressing the impact can be shown to be roughly equivalent to
         the cost imposed upon the developer, can the condition be considered valid. The County has not
         made such a showing, and until doing so, cannot impose the exactions.

         The Conditions imposed by Ordinance No. 439, Series 2006 are not invalid due solely to the fact
         that they were not attached to the City Council motion granting approval of the preliminary plat.
         The conditions appear frequently and patently within the written record evidencing approval of
the subdivision plat, and thereby may be imposed in accordance with UTAH CODE § 17-27a-
508(1)(h)(i).

                                                Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from Jim Farrell, agent for Howard Kent, on
May 16, 2008. As provided in statute, a letter with the request attached was sent via certified
mail, return receipt requested, to Commissioner Judy Carmichael at 125 E. Center Street, Moab,
Utah 84532. The return receipt was signed and received on May 21, 2008, indicating that it had
been received by the County. W. Scott Barrett, deputy attorney for Grand County, responded by
mail on or about June 25, 2008. Mr. Farrell sent a letter dated June 23, 2008, responding to the
statement by Grand County.

                                               Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Jim Farrell, and received by the
                 Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, May 16, 2008.
     2.          Letter dated June 25, 2008 from W. Scott Barrett, Deputy County Attorney for Grand
                 County, with attachments.
     3.          Letter dated June 23, 2008 from Jim Farrell.


                                              Background
Jim Farrell, on behalf of Howard Kent and SLI Real Estate Development (collectively, the
“Developer”), filed an application for sketch plan and preliminary plat regarding a proposal for
the Pueblo Verde PUD Subdivision (the “PUD”) in 2006. The PUD property is bounded by
Spanish Valley Drive on the north and east and by Chapman Lane, a dirt road, on the west. The
PUD will have 28 total units: 4 ranchettes on 2.5 acre lots and 24 one-third acre lots, with a
primary access from Spanish Valley Drive.

According to the Minutes of the meeting dated August 9, 2006, the Grand County Planning
Commission approved the Developer’s sketch plan along with several staff recommendations.

Advisory Opinion − Jim Farrell/Grand County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 20, 2008 − Page 2 of 8
Those recommendations included “3. Extension of a connecting road to Chapman Lane to be
shown on the Preliminary Plat.” On September 27, 2006, the Grant County Planning
Commission approved the Developer’s preliminary plat application with conditions. Those
conditions included: “2. Street Improvements should be made on the extension of Alejandro
Drive to the County road standard and dedicated as a right-of-way. 3. The applicant shall bond
for Street improvements on Chapman road within the subdivision to the County road standard
and dedicate the half street right-of way.”

In the Minutes of the Grand County Council Meeting dated October 17th, 2006, a public hearing
was held on the Developer’s preliminary plat application. The minutes reflect the approval and
recommendation of the Planning Commission with conditions. The record does not indicate that
any public comment was received. Finally, at the Grand County Council Meeting on November
21, 2006, the County Council considered and approved the Developer’s preliminary plat
application. The minutes show only that the application was considered and approved. No
conditions are listed.

The County Council then issued and recorded Ordinance No. 439, Series 2006, dated November
21, 2006. This Ordinance contains the Approval of the Developer’s preliminary plat. This
Ordinance includes the conditions approved by the County Planning Commission verbatim,
including the condition requiring improvement of Chapman Lane, and the improvement and
extension of Alejandro Drive. The Ordinance is signed by Frank Townsend, County Clerk, and
Joette Landianese, Chair of the County Council.

In his request, Mr. Farrell objects to the conditions that he dedicate and improve Alejandro Drive
and that he dedicate property and bond for the improvements to Chapman Lane. Mr. Farrell
claims that these conditions are illegal exactions. Mr. Farrell also objects to those conditions
because they were not included in the motion approved by the County Council, but instead were
surreptitiously and wrongfully placed within the ordinance by County staff.

                                                 Analysis
              I.          The County’s Requirement that the Developer Dedicate Property
                          and Provide a Bond for Road Improvements Is an Exaction that
                          Must Be Analyzed Under the Nolan/Dollan Rough Proportionality
                          Test.

The County’s requirement that the Developer dedicate property and provide a bond for road
improvements constitutes an exaction under Utah law. “Exactions are conditions imposed by
governmental entities on developers for the issuance of a building permit or subdivision plat
approval.” B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 34, 128 P.3d 1161, 1169
(“B.A.M. I”). The term “exaction” includes any condition on development, including not only
dedication of property, but also payment of money, installation of specific improvements, or
other requirements imposed by a public entity. Furthermore, the term “exaction” includes
conditions imposed by a general legislative enactment as well as those imposed by decisions or
negotiations on specific proposals. Id., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 46, 128 P.3d at 1170. Because the County
is asking that the Developer dedicate property and provide a bond for road improvements as a


Advisory Opinion − Jim Farrell/Grand County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 20, 2008 − Page 3 of 8
condition of development approval, this request is an exaction that must satisfy the requirements
§ 17-27a-507 of the Utah Code.

Section 17-27a-507 of the Utah Code authorizes counties to impose exactions on new
development, and also prescribes limits on that authority:

           (1) A county may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in a
           land use application provided that:
           (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
           exaction; and
           (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
           impact of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-507(1). 1 The Utah Supreme Court noted that the language of this
statute was borrowed directly from the U.S. Supreme Court analyses in Nollan v. California
Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825, 107 S.Ct. 3141 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374,
114 S.Ct. 2309 (1994). See also, B.A.M. I, 2006 UT at ¶ 41, 128 P.3d at 1170. In those two
cases, the Supreme Court promulgated rules for determining when an exaction is valid under the
federal constitution’s Takings Clause. 2 This has come to be known as the Nollan/Dolan “rough
proportionality” test, and that two-part analysis is reflected in § 17-27a-507.

Recently, the Utah Supreme Court clarified the second part of the analysis under § 17-27a-
507(1)(b) in B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2008 UT 45 (“B.A.M. II”). 3 That
decision explained that the second prong of the “rough proportionality” test “has two aspects:
first, the exaction and impact must be related in nature; second, they must be related in extent.”
Id. 2008 UT 45, ¶ 10. The “nature” aspect focuses on the relationship between the purported
impact and proposed exaction. The court agreed that the approach should be expressed “in terms
of a solution and a problem . . . [T]he impact is the problem, or the burden which the community
will bear because of the development. The exaction should address the problem. If it does, then
the nature component has been satisfied.” Id.

The “extent” aspect of the rough proportionality analysis measures the impact against the
proposed exaction in terms of cost:

           The most appropriate measure is cost—specifically, the cost of the exaction and
           the impact to the developer and the municipality, respectively. The impact of the
           development can be measured as the cost to the municipality of assuaging the
           impact. Likewise, the exaction can be measured as the value of the land to be
           dedicated by the developer at the time of the exaction.


1 There is a corresponding statute applicable to cities found at § 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code.
2 See U.S. CONST., amend V.       The Supreme Court has interpreted the Takings Clause as limiting a government’s
ability to impose conditions on development. Furthermore, “[t]he Utah Constitution reinforces the protection of
private property against uncompensated governmental takings . . . .” B.A.M. I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 31, 128 P.3d at 1168.
See also UTAH CONST. art. I, § 22.
3 B.A.M. II is a second appeal of a development project that originally promulgated the “rough proportionality”

analysis in Utah in the first appeal.
Advisory Opinion − Jim Farrell/Grand County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 20, 2008 − Page 4 of 8
Id., 2008 UT 45, ¶ 11. The court continued by holding that “roughly proportional” means
“roughly equivalent.” Thus, in order to be valid, the cost of an exaction must be roughly
equivalent to the cost that a local government would incur to address (or “assuage”) the impact
attributable to a new development.

In order to be a valid exaction, the County’s dedication requirement must satisfy all aspects
expressed in § 17-27a-507. First, there must be an essential link between a legitimate
governmental interest and each exaction. The Grand County Land Use Code requires that a
developer provide connector roads from a subdivision to “existing principal streets.” 4 The
County is also concerned that the PUD have a secondary access in case of an emergency. The
County has a legitimate interest in managing and controlling roads, 5 traffic and access. 6
Requiring the Developer to dedicate land for the connector road and the widening of Chapman
Lane, and to provide a bond for future road improvements are reasonable means of
accomplishing the County’s objectives. 7 Since the County’s legitimate interests are promoted by
the requirement, the first prong of § 17-27a-507 is satisfied.

The County must also show that the second prong of the test has been met. 8 As stated above, the
“nature” aspect of the test is expressed in terms of a problem (the impact) and a solution (the
exaction). With regard to the “nature” aspect of the test, the problem lies in the addition of
twenty-eight new homes to the area -- and the associated increase in traffic, as well as the need
to provide a secondary, emergency access for the homes. The proposed solution is to provide a
secondary road access to a county road. This solution is to be achieved by having the Developer
dedicate land for and construct the improvements to the connector road (the extension of
Alejandro Drive); dedicate land to widen that portion of Chapman Lane that lies within the
boundaries of the Developer’s property; and provide a bond for the future construction of road
improvements to Chapman Lane. The proposed solution would improve traffic management and
provide secondary road access. Therefore, the exaction is related in nature to the impact of the
development.

However, the County must also establish that the cost of the exaction to the Developer is roughly
equivalent in extent to the cost to the County of assuaging the impact of the Development. In
order to make such a showing, and satisfy the “extent” aspect of the Nollan/Dolan analysis,
information must be provided that establishes (a) the cost of the exaction to the Developer,
including the cost of dedicating land, the cost of improving the roads to the County standard, and
the cost to bond for future road improvements; (b) the cost to the County to assuage the impact
of adding twenty-eight new homes, including traffic management costs and costs to provide

4 GRAND COUNTY LAND USE CODE, § 5.3.2.
5 UTAH CODE ANN. §17-50-505(1)(b).
6 See, Hampton v. State Rd. Comm’n, 445 P.2d 708, 710 (Utah 1968) where the Supreme Court recognized the

government’s police power to protect the public and facilitate traffic and access.
7 Note that the first step of the evaluation under § 17-27a-507(1)(a) does not consider whether the County’s
requirement is the only or best means for accomplishing the County’s objectives, only that the requirement be a
reasonable means of accomplishing the those objectives. As long as the “essential link” is shown, the first prong is
satisfied. There may be many other reasonable means for accomplishing the County’s objectives.
8 See B.A.M. I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 39, 128 P.2d at 1169-70 (Rough proportionality analysis “include[s] the imposition of a

burden on the governmental entity to make ‘some sort of individualized determination that the required dedication is
related both in nature and extent to the impact of the proposed development’”)(quoting Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391).
Advisory Opinion − Jim Farrell/Grand County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 20, 2008 − Page 5 of 8
emergency access to the development (the increased needs for roads due to the new
development); and (3) that those costs are roughly equivalent. 9 Absent an analysis of the costs,
and a showing that the costs are roughly equivalent, the exaction must be deemed invalid and
cannot be imposed by the County. 10

              II.         The Conditions Imposed By Ordinance No. 439, Series 2006 Are Not
                          Invalid Due Solely To The Fact That They Were Not Mentioned In
                          The City Council Motion Granting Approval Of The Preliminary
                          Plat.

The Developer also objects to the conditions imposed upon approval of the preliminary plat due
to the fact that those conditions were not included in the County Council motion to approve the
preliminary plat. Mr. Farrell claims that County staff surreptitiously and wrongfully placed the
conditions in the ordinance that were not part of the approval.

While it is true that the Minutes of the County Council meeting make no mention of any
conditions placed upon approval of the preliminary plat, the conditions are part of the Council’s
preliminary plat approval. UTAH CODE § 17-27a-508(1)(h)(i) dictates the circumstances under
which conditions may be placed upon subdivision approval:

           (h) A county may not impose on a holder of an issued land use permit or approved
           subdivision plat a requirement that is not expressed:
           (i) in the land use permit or subdivision plat documents on which the land use
           permit or subdivision plat is based, or the written record evidencing approval of
           the land use permit or subdivision plat; or
           (ii) in this chapter or the county's ordinances.


This ordinance states that a condition imposed upon a subdivision plat must be expressed. The
conditions may be expressed in the written record evidencing approval of the subdivision plat.
Ordinance No. 439, Series 2006, is part of the written record evidencing preliminary approval of
the subdivision plat. Without regard to the identity or motives of the party that prepared the
ordinance, the ordinance has been signed by the County Clerk and Chair of the County Council.
The Ordinance therefore is part of the written record evidencing approval of the plat. In addition,
the conditions objected to by the Developer are clearly expressed throughout the preliminary plat
approval process, including in the conditional approval given by the County Planning
Commission, and were discussed on the record by the County Council at the public hearing.
Accordingly, the conditions imposed by the County on the approval of the preliminary plat are
expressed in the written record evidencing approval of the subdivision plat. The Developer may
not claim ignorance of the conditions or that the inclusion of them was surreptitious. Because
they are included in the written record evidencing approval of the subdivision plat, those

9 The decision in B.A.M. II emphasized that the cost would be determined at the time of the exaction.    Therefore, the
cost of acquiring the land would be the fair market value, which is the value of the land to the developer. However,
the cost of assuaging the impact may be different than merely the cost of the land to be dedicated.
10
   The B.A.M. II analysis applies to the present exaction despite the fact that B.A.M. II was recently decided (2008),
while the exaction was imposed two years earlier, in 2006. The Utah Supreme Court in B.A.M. II did not establish a
new exaction standard, but simply clarified the application of well-settled exaction law. See B.A.M. II at ¶8.
Advisory Opinion − Jim Farrell/Grand County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 20, 2008 − Page 6 of 8
conditions are not invalid due simply to the fact that they were not directly expressed in the
County Council motion for approval.

                                              Conclusion
The County’s condition that the Developer dedicate property for the connector road and the
expansion of Chapman Lane and provide a bond to pay for the construction of road
improvements to Chapman Lane constitute an “exaction” under state and federal law. A local
government may impose an exaction on property development, but the exaction must satisfy the
Nollan/Dolan “rough proportionality” analysis. The requirement promotes the legitimate
governmental objective of controlling roads, traffic and access. Thus, the first prong of the
“rough proportionality” analysis is met. The cost to the Developer of dedicating property and
providing a bond for road improvements must also be roughly equal to the cost that would be
incurred by the local government to address the impact caused by new development. The
County’s condition on the development must satisfy this analysis. Absent this analysis, with a
showing that the cost of the impact is roughly equal to the cost of the exaction, the exaction
cannot be imposed.

The Conditions imposed by Ordinance No. 439, Series 2006 are not invalid due solely to the fact
that they were not attached to the City Council motion granting approval of the preliminary plat.
The conditions appear frequently and patently in the written record evidencing approval of the
subdivision plat, and thereby may be imposed in accordance with UTAH CODE § 17-27a-
508(1)(h)(i).




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion − Jim Farrell/Grand County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 20, 2008 − Page 7 of 8
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, § 13-42-205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

       Commissioner Judy Carmichael
       125 E. Center Street
       Moab, UT 84531


On this 20th day of August, 2008, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
