                       Advisory Opinion #7
                              Parties: Nathan Zollinger and Nibley City
                                       Issued: September 6, 2006

                                        TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      D: Exactions on Development
                      R(v): Other Topics (Interpretation of Ordinances)

A local government may require connection to a sewer system, but only if the
property is no more than 300 feet from the nearest sewer line. A ban on septic
systems should not operate as a “back-door” approach to require hookups to lines
more than 300 feet away.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                                      State of Utah
                                      Department of Commerce
  JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
                                      OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor



                                                                      Advisory Opinion

                  Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                Nathan Zollinger

                  Local Government Entity:                                      Nibley City

                  Applicant for the Land Use Approval:                          Nathan Zollinger

                  Project:                                                      Proposed Single Family Dwelling
                                                                                Approx. 4080 Hollow Road, Nibley

                  Date of this Advisory Opinion:                                September 6, 2006


                  Issues: Can the City of Nibley require Zollinger to connect to the city sewer system as part
                  of its review of a building permit/conditional use permit application?

                  Assumed Facts:

                       1.        Nathan Zollinger owns a building lot at approximately 4080 Hollow Road in
                                 Nibley City, Cache County.

                       2.        Zollinger applied for a conditional use permit under the city ordinances, which is
                                 required as his lot lies within the flood plain.

                       3.        Zollinger also has applied for a building permit.

                       4.        The Nibley Planning Commission denied approval of Zollinger’s permits, in part
                                 because he refused to connect his new home to the City sewer system.

                       5.        The Nibley City Council denied Zollinger’s appeal of the Planning Commission
                                 denials in July of 2006.

                  Review:

                  The request for an advisory opinion in this matter was received by the Office of the Property
                  Rights Ombudsman on July 7, 2006. A letter with the request attached was sent by certified
                  mail, return receipt requested, to Nibley City on July 10, 2006. The letter was addressed to
                  Larry Ahnder, City Administrator, at the address shown on the Governmental Immunity
                  Act Database at the Utah State Department of Commerce, Division of Corporations and



160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
                                                                                          -2-

Commercial Code as required by statute. The letter was received by the City on July 11,
2006. My decision to proceed with the preparation of the opinion was made on July 28,
2006.

Prior to the preparation of this opinion, I discussed the matter with Nathan Zollinger, the
applicant and with Larry Ahnder. I also met with Larry and Mayor Gerald Knight at Nibley
City on August 4, 2006. Larry drove with me to the property involved where I physically
inspected it.

Analysis:

Requirement to Connect to Sewer:

According to Utah Code Annotated, Section 10‐8‐38(2)(a):

       In order to defray the cost of constructing, reconstructing, maintaining, or operating
       a sewer system or sewage treatment plant, a municipality may:
       (i) require connection to the sewer system if the sewer is available and within 300
       feet of the property line of a property with a building used for human occupancy;
       and
       (ii) make a reasonable charge for the use of the sewer system.

In the case of Harding v. Alpine City, the Utah Supreme Court held:

       We find that the statute (U.C.A. 10-8-32(2)(a)) limits the City's powers, for, as
       plaintiff points out, if the City were permitted to reach beyond 300 feet the words
       "300 feet" in the statute would have no meaning. The enactment of an ordinance
       requiring sewer hookups from all properties lying within 500 feet of a sewer line is
       clearly beyond the City's powers . . .

656 P.2d 985 (Utah 1982). (Citation to statute added) As a matter of law, with a case exactly
on point, the Utah Supreme Court has resolved this issue. Nibley may not require Zollinger
to connect to the sewer if his property lies more than 300 feet from the city sewer lines.

The City appears to have an ordinance prohibiting the installation of septic tanks within the
area where the Zollinger property is located. Under the Harding precendent, the City
cannot require a property owner to connect to the city sewer if the sewer is more than 300
feet from his property. If by ordinance, the City bans all septic tanks in the same area, then
it could be claimed that the city has “back‐doored” a mandatory connection in violation of
state law. That would not be allowed under Harding. The City simply cannot require
Zollinger to connect to its sewer system so long as his property lies more than 300 feet froma
city sewer line.
                                                                                           -3-

The remedy to this restriction is straightforward. If the City considers it a matter of
significant health and safety to have the Zollinger home connected to the sewer, it should
bring the sewer line within three hundred feet of Zollingers property line. Zollinger would
then have to connect if the Nibley ordinances require such a connection within that distance.

Since Zollinger’s time to appeal the city council decision to court has passed, he must
originate a new building permit/conditional use permit application. The City could not
legally condition approval on connection to the City sewer system nor deny the permits
based solely on his refusal to connect to City sewer.




Craig M. Call, Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, 13‐42‐205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of
the State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his
understanding of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter.
Anyone with an interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the
advice of his or her own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive
statement of how to protect or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not
binding on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the
subject of an advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of
action is litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the
advisory opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect
reasonable attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of
action from the date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s
resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
are not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                                                                       -4-

                                MAILING CERTIFICATE



Utah Code Annotated Section 13‐43‐206(10)(b) requires delivery of the attached advisory
opinion to the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with
U.C.A. Section 63‐30d‐401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental
entity in the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State
Department of Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the
address shown is as designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as
follows:

       Larry Ahnder, City Administrator
       Nibley City
       625 West 3200 South
       Nibley, UT 84321

On this Sixth day of September, 2006, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal
Service, postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the
person shown above.


                             _______________________________________________________
                             Craig M. Call, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
