                     Advisory Opinion #51
                   Parties: Jeff Glines and Cities of Washington and St. George
                                      Issued: September 25, 2008

                                       TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      D: Exactions on Development

Requiring construction of a secondary access road is valid, even if the road is
located in another jurisdiction. The requirement is an exaction, which much satisfy
rough proportionality analysis. The cost of the road must be roughly equal to the
expense necessary to address the impact of the development. The cost analysis
should include public benefits.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
       Governor
                            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 GARY R. HERBERT
 Lieutenant Governor



                                          ADVISORY OPINION
                       Requiring a Secondary Access Road Through Another Jurisdiction


       Advisory Opinion Requested by:             Jeff Glines

       Local Government Entities:                 Washington City
                                                  St. George City

       Applicants for the Land Use Approval:      Jeff Glines
                                                  MIKTRAM, LLC

       Project:                                   Residential Subdivision

       Date of this Advisory Opinion:             September 25, 2008

       Opinion Authored By:                       Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney, Office of the Property
                                                  Rights Ombudsman

                                                  Issues
       May a local government require acquisition of secondary access through a neighboring
       jurisdiction?

                                     Summary of Advisory Opinion
       The City’s requirement that the Developer construct a secondary access road through St. George
       City is an exaction, which is subject to the analysis required by § 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code.
       Public safety access and traffic flow are legitimate government concerns, and requiring a
       secondary access road is a reasonable means to promote that interest, as well as address the
       impact caused by the subdivision. The cost of constructing the road must be roughly equivalent
       to the public expense attributable to the development’s impact. However, the cost analysis must
       also include the public benefits conferred by the road.

                                                  Review
       A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
       decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or
other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such
a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from Jeff Glines on June 6, 2008. A letter
with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return receipt requested, Danice B. Bulloch,
City Recorder, Washington City at 111 North 100 East, Washington, Utah 84790. Ms. Bulloch’s
name is listed on the State’s Governmental Immunity Database as the contact person for the City.
On July 8, 2008, a letter was sent to Ms. Bulloch, again requesting a response by July 25, 2008.
On August 19, 2008, the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman received a response from the
City.
                                               Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion filed June 6, 2008 with the Office of the Property
                 Rights Ombudsman by Jeff Glines with attachments.
     2.          Response submitted by Jeffrey N. Starkey, Durham Jones & Pinegar, attorneys for
                 Washington City, received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, August
                 19, 2008.

                                             Background
Jeff Glines proposed a 39 lot subdivision, entitled “Eagle Summit Estates,” on a bluff
overlooking the Green Springs area of Washington City. 1 The western boundary of the
subdivision is also the boundary between Washington and St. George. When the subdivision was
proposed, Washington City changed the zoning designation for the property to allow for 12,000
square foot lots.

Washington City approved the preliminary plat for Eagle Summit Estates on October 10, 2007.
As a condition of approval the Washington City Council required a secondary access road into
the subdivision. This requirement is consistent with the City’s code, which requires secondary
access on streets longer than 600 feet. 2 The topography of the area and the layout of the
subdivision dictate that any secondary access road must travel to the west, or through the
Middleton area of St. George.



1
  According to the information submitted, the property is owned by MIKTRAM, LLC and Corwin and Allison
Keltner.
2
  See § 3.2.4.5.A of the Washington City Code.


Advisory Opinion – Glines/Washington City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 25, 2008 – page 2 of 8 pages
Initially, Mr. Glines was able to obtain a “tentative” agreement with the owners of undeveloped
properties next to the Eagle Summit subdivision to allow construction of a road. According to
Mr. Glines, St. George officials verbally approved the road design, but later backed down,
evidently stating that the road should be built when the properties developed. There do not
appear to be current plans to develop the neighboring properties, although the City indicates that
a residential subdivision has been proposed.

Mr. Glines is thus at the mercy of circumstances beyond his control. He is unable to construct
the road across the undeveloped properties in St. George City, but cannot develop the subdivision
within Washington City without the road. In addition, Mr. Glines feels that he should not be
required to provide a benefit to the undeveloped properties without compensation.

As of the date of this Opinion, it appears that Washington City will accept a “stub” road from the
Eagle Summit subdivision, to be connected to a future road in St. George. There is no further
information regarding when that road is to be built, or who is responsible for its construction. 3

                                                   Analysis
           I. The Secondary Access Requirement is a Condition that Must Satisfy the
           Rough Proportionality Analysis Required by State and Federal Law.

The City’s requirement of a secondary access road constitutes an “exaction” under Utah law.
“Exactions are conditions imposed by governmental entities on developers for the issuance of a
building permit or subdivision plat approval.” B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County,
2006 UT 2, ¶ 34, 128 P.3d 1161, 1169 (“B.A.M. I”). 4 The term “exaction” includes any condition
on development, including not only dedication of property, but also payment of money,
installation of specific improvements, or other requirements imposed by a public entity.
Furthermore, the term “exaction” includes conditions imposed by a general legislative enactment
as well as those imposed by decisions or negotiations on specific proposals. Id., 2006 UT 2, ¶
46, 128 P.3d at 1170. Since the City is asking Mr. Glines to construct a secondary access road as
a condition of approval for a subdivision, the County is requiring an exaction, which must satisfy
§ 10-9a-508(1) of the Utah Code. 5

In 2005, the Utah Legislature enacted § 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code, which authorizes cities to
impose exactions on new development, within established limits:


3
  Mr. Glines has requested that the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman complete this Opinion, despite the fact
that the City seems to be working toward a compromise solution.
4
  See also Salt Lake County v. Board of Education, Granite School District, 808 P.2d 1056, 1058 (Utah 1991)
(holding that “development exactions” are “contributions to a governmental entity imposed as a condition precedent
to approving the developer’s project.”)
5
  The City notes that in the preliminary approval stages, Mr. Glines proposed the location of the secondary access
road, and did not object to the City’s requirement. However, a property owner’s accession to an exaction changes
neither its nature as an exaction nor the analysis to determine its validity. The secondary access condition was
imposed by the City to fulfill requirements found in the City’s code. Even if the developer originally agreed with
the condition, the exaction must still fit within the required legal framework.


Advisory Opinion – Glines/Washington City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 25, 2008 – page 3 of 8 pages
           (1) A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed
           in a land use application provided that:
           (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
           exaction; and
           (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
           impact of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-508(1). 6 The Utah Supreme Court observed that the language of this
statute was borrowed directly from the U.S. Supreme Court analyses in Nollan v. California
Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825, 107 S.Ct. 3141 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374,
114 S.Ct. 2309 (1994). (See B.A.M. I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 41, 128 P.3d at 1170.) In those two
landmark cases, the U.S. Supreme Court promulgated rules for determining when an exaction
may be validly imposed under the federal constitution’s Takings Clause. 7 This has come to be
known as the Nollan/Dolan “rough proportionality” test, and that two-part analysis has been
codified in § 10-9a-508.

The Utah Supreme Court further honed the “rough proportionality” analysis in B.A.M.
Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2008 UT 45 (“B.A.M. II”), which was a second appeal
stemming from the same development project at issue in the earlier decision. This opinion
explained that rough proportionality analysis “has two aspects: first, the exaction and impact
must be related in nature; second, they must be related in extent.” B.A.M. II, 2008 UT 45, ¶ 9.
The “nature” aspect focuses on the relationship between the purported impact and proposed
exaction. The court agreed that the approach should be expressed “in terms of a solution and a
problem . . . . [T]he impact is the problem, or the burden which the community will bear because
of the development. The exaction should address the problem. If it does, then the nature
component has been satisfied.” Id., 2008 UT 45, ¶ 10.

The “extent” aspect of the rough proportionality analysis measures the impact against the
proposed exaction in terms of cost:

           The most appropriate measure is cost—specifically, the cost of the exaction and
           the impact to the developer and the municipality, respectively. The impact of the
           development can be measured as the cost to the municipality of assuaging the
           impact. Likewise, the exaction can be measured as the value of the land to be
           dedicated by the developer at the time of the exaction.

Id., 2008 UT 45, ¶ 11. The court continued by holding that “roughly proportional” means
“roughly equivalent.” Thus, in order to be valid, the cost of an exaction must be roughly


6
  There is a corresponding statute applicable to counties found at § 17-27a-509 of the Utah Code.
7
  See U.S. CONST., amend. V. (“nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation”). The
Supreme Court has interpreted the Takings Clause as limiting a government’s ability to impose conditions on
development. Furthermore, “[t]he Utah Constitution reinforces the protection of private property against
uncompensated governmental takings . . . .” B.A.M I., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 31, 128 P.3d at 1168. See also UTAH CONST. art.
I, § 22 (“Private property shall not be taken or damaged for public use without just compensation”).


Advisory Opinion – Glines/Washington City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 25, 2008 – page 4 of 8 pages
equivalent to the cost that a local government would incur to address (or “assuage”) the impact
attributable to a new development.

           II.  The Secondary Access Requirement Is a Reasonable Means to
           Accomplish a Legitimate Government Interest.

In order to be a valid exaction, the City’s dedication requirement must satisfy all aspects
expressed in § 10-9a-508(1). First, there must be an essential link between a legitimate interest
and the requirement. The City has a legitimate governmental interest in improved access for
public safety purposes as well as enhanced traffic flow. 8 Requiring the Developer to install a
secondary access road is a reasonable means of accomplishing the City’s objectives. 9 Since the
City’s legitimate interests are promoted by the dedication, the first prong of § 10-9a-508 is
satisfied.

           III. The Secondary Access Requirement is Related in Nature to the Impact
           Caused by the Development.

The City must also show that the second prong of the test has been met. 10 With regard to the
“nature” aspect of the test, the secondary road is intended to provide additional public safety
access and improved traffic flow. 11 The “problem” presented by the development is the need for
safety and traffic flow. The “solution” is the secondary access road. The solution is a reasonable
and effective means to address the problem. The access and traffic “problems” presented by the
subdivision are thus addressed by constructing the secondary road.

The extraordinary conditions that the development faces, the location of the property, the unusual
terrain, and the need to bring the secondary road through the neighboring city, do not override
the City’s legitimate interest in safety and enhanced traffic flow, nor do they interfere with the
legitimacy of a secondary access road as a means to address that interest. The City’s interest in
safety and traffic flow must be addressed, and cannot be ignored simply because constructing the
road is difficult. The nature aspect of the exaction analysis is therefore satisfied.




8
   See Carrier v. Lindquist, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18, 37 P.3d 1112, 1117 (“In order for a government to be effective, it
needs the power to establish or relocate public throughways . . . for the convenience and safety of the general
public.”) also UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-8-8.
9
  Note that the first step of the evaluation under § 10-9a-508(1)(a) requires an essential link between the requirement
and a legitimate governmental interest. This first prong of the test does not require a connection between the
exaction and a need attributable to new development. As has been discussed, the “nature aspect” expressed in § 10-
9a-508(1)(b) concerns the relationship between the exaction and the need created by new development. B.A.M. II,
2008 UT 45, ¶ 10.
10
    See B.A.M. I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 39, 128 P.2d at 1169-70 (Rough proportionality analysis “include[s] the imposition of
a burden on the governmental entity to make ‘some sort of individualized determination that the required dedication
is related both in nature and extent to the impact of the proposed development’”)(quoting Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391).
11
    The City asserts that the road promotes “sensible planning of vehicular traffic,” but no formal traffic study was
prepared. However, there appears to be no dispute that two access points will lead to better traffic flow within the
subdivision.


Advisory Opinion – Glines/Washington City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 25, 2008 – page 5 of 8 pages
           IV. The Cost of the Secondary Access Requirement Must be Roughly
           Equivalent to the Cost of Assuaging the Impact of the Development.

Niether the City nor Mr. Glines has provided information about the costs associated with the road
requirement nor the impact created by the subdivision. As has been discussed, the B.A.M. II
court held that the analysis must include a comparison of the burden incurred by the City
resulting from the impact of the development against the cost to the developer to acquire the
right-of-way and construct the road. 12 The analysis boils down to a comparison of the costs to
the developer to acquire and build the road against the costs to the City for providing emergency
access and traffic flow to thirty-nine new homes. If the cost of the road construction is roughly
equivalent to the amount the City would spend to assuage the impact of the thirty-nine homes in
the Eagle Summit Estates subdivision, the condition is a proper exaction. If the costs are not
roughly equivalent, the exaction violates § 10-9a-508. Without this information regarding costs,
an analysis of the legitimacy of the exaction under B.A.M. II cannot be complete.

Nevertheless, some guidance is available. Whether or not the condition to build the secondary
access road is a legal exaction depends at least in part upon the road that will be built. If the City
requires that the Developer build several miles of road over very rough terrain, then the condition
is more likely to be an illegal exaction. 13 The costs of building such a road will be very high, and
may be disproportionate to the impact of thirty-nine new homes. Conversely, where the costs of
establishing the access road are reduced, for example by requiring a short stub road rather than a
lengthy highway (as has been discussed), the costs of the exaction is more likely to be roughly
equivalent to the cost to the City to assuage the impact. The exaction in such a case is more
likely to be upheld.

The City may also reduce the cost to the Developer by compensating the developer for costs
incurred in building the road. This is especially appropriate in a case where, as here, a lengthy
road through neighboring property will benefit and could amount to a windfall to other property
owners and the public at large. Compensating the developer in such a case would also make the
exaction more likely to meet the rough equivalency test. At their heart, constitutional takings
provisions promote fairness and proportionality. See Monterey v. Del Monte Dunes at Monterey
LTD, 526 U.S. 687, 703 (1999). 14 It is not fair that one developer shoulder a burden which
ultimately will provide a public benefit in excess of the developer’s proportionate responsibility,
even if the condition is justified by public needs. Even though public safety may necessitate the
secondary access and cost of construction, proper cost balancing must consider the value of other
public benefits that derive from the road, and whether it is fair and just for one developer to fully
bear the construction cost.


12
   The “rough equivalency” analysis also applies to the costs to install improvements, in addition to the cost of
dedicating the land.
13
   This is not to say that requiring the developer to build a lengthy road would be an illegal exaction. An analysis of
the costs under B.A.M. II would still be necessary, and could result in a showing of rough equivalency.
14
   “[C]oncerns for proportionality animate the Takings Clause . . .” See also Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40,
49 (1960) (“The Fifth Amendment’s guarantee . . . was designed to bar the Government from forcing some people
alone to bear public burdens, which in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.”)


Advisory Opinion – Glines/Washington City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 25, 2008 – page 6 of 8 pages
                                            Conclusion
The City’s condition requiring a secondary access is an exaction, which must satisfy § 10-9a-508
of the Utah Code. That requirement must be met even though the developer agreed with the
condition. A valid exaction must be linked to a legitimate governmental interest, and must be
roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to impact of a proposed development.
“Roughly proportionate” requires rough equivalence between the cost to the private developer
and the public expense arising due to the impact of the development. The fundamental concept
of fairness and proportionality, which animate Constitutional protections, dictate that the value of
public benefits be included in the rough equivalence analysis.

Access for public safety purposes and improved traffic flow is a legitimate governmental
purpose, and requiring a secondary access road is a reasonable means of promoting that interest.
Furthermore, the secondary access road is related in nature to the impact of the proposed
subdivision, by providing a reasonable “solution” to the “problem” raised by the impact of the
subdivision. There has been no information related to the costs of the road or the expense caused
by the impact of the subdivision. However, the additional public benefits of the proposed
secondary road must be considered in the cost analysis, in order to ensure the fairness and
proportionality guaranteed by the state and federal constitutions.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Glines/Washington City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 25, 2008 – page 7 of 8 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Danice B. Bulloch, City Recorder
              Washington City
              111 North 100 East
              Washington, UT 84790

On this ___________ Day of September, 2008, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
