                     Advisory Opinion #63
             Parties: Tom Spencer, Fieldstone Homes Utah, LLC and City of Tooele
                                         Issued: March 10, 2009

                                        TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      D: Exactions on Development

A local government may impose exactions on new development, which must
satisfy rough proportionality analysis. Local governments may enter agreements
with developers, but those agreements cannot bargain away police power or
regulatory authority, and must comply with statutory and constitutional provisions.
The Development Agreement was a valid bargain whereby the Developer agreed
to construct “excess” improvements in exchange for concessions. The Developer
received the benefit of his bargain, and could not now avoid its contractual
obligation. There was no showing that the Developer was being asked to shoulder
a disproportionate share of the costs of public improvements.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                         State of Utah
                         Department of Commerce
JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
       Governor
                         OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 GARY R. HERBERT
 Lieutenant Governor



                                         ADVISORY OPINION

       Advisory Opinion Requested by:              Tom Spencer

       Local Government Entity:                    Tooele City

       Applicant for the Land Use Approval:        Fieldstone Homes Utah, LLC

       Project:                                    Residential Subdivision

       Date of this Advisory Opinion:              March 10, 2009

       Opinion Authored By:                        Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney,
                                                   Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                   Issues
       Is Fieldstone Homes entitled under the exaction law, UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508, to reimbursement
       from Tooele City for the costs of excess public improvements, where those excess improvements
       were installed under a development agreement between the City and the Developer’s predecessor
       in interest?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
       A local government may impose conditions and exactions upon development, so long as those
       conditions comply with the rough proportionality test of UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508. Since local
       governments cannot do by agreement what they have no authority to do otherwise, conditions or
       exactions imposed in a negotiated development agreement must comply with the rough
       proportionality test to be valid.

       Where a developer has agreed to construct certain improvements as part of the overall
       consideration under a development agreement, and where the named consideration under that
       agreement is actually exchanged and the developer receives benefit of the bargain, then absent a
       showing of changed circumstances or unconscionability, that exchange of consideration must be
       considered adequate, and therefore roughly proportional under UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508. To hold
       otherwise would necessitate inquiry into the adequacy of consideration under a contract, an
       unwise and virtually impossible task.
                                                    Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-
205. The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or
other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such
a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from Tom Spencer of The Spencer
Company, Inc., on November 26, 2008. A letter with the request attached was sent via certified
mail, return receipt requested, to Sharon Dawson, Tooele City Recorder, 90 North Main Street,
Tooele, Utah 84074. Ms. Dawson’s name was listed on the State’s Governmental Immunity
Database, as the contact person for the City. On December 5, 2008, Roger Baker, Attorney for
Tooele City, submitted a request that the OPRO review the appropriateness of the Advisory
Opinion request under Utah Code § 13-43-205. Paxton Guymon, attorney for Fieldstone Homes,
sent a response to Tooele’s request by email on December 11, 2008. Mr. Baker, on behalf of the
City sent an email in reply on December 15, 2008. On December 16, 2008, the Office of the
Property Rights Ombudsman issued a letter to the parties indicating that it had limited
jurisdiction to issue an Advisory Opinion in this matter.

On January 21, 2009, Tooele City sent an email responding to the Advisory Opinion request,
making reference to several previously provided materials. In a telephone conversation dated
January 28, 2009, Mr. Guymon indicated that no further response on behalf of Fieldstone Homes
would be necessary.

                                                    Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion dated November 19, 2008 with the Office of the
                 Property Rights Ombudsman by Tom Spencer, on behalf of Fieldstone Homes Utah,
                 LLC, with attachments.
     2.          Fieldstone Homes’ Application for Reimbursement, Copper Canyon PUD Phase 2A
                 & 2B, dated October 2, 2008.
     3.          Tooele City’s request to review the appropriateness of the Advisory Opinion, dated
                 December 5, 2008, with attachments.
     4.          Fieldstone Homes’ email response to Tooele’s request dated December 11, 2008.
     5.          Tooele City’s email reply dated December 15, 2008.
     6.          Tooele City’s email response to the Advisory Opinion request dated January 21, 2009.



Advisory Opinion – Fieldstone Homes / Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 10, 2009 – page 2 of 10 pages
                                                    Background
Fieldstone Homes Utah, LLC (“Fieldstone”), is the developer of the Copper Canyon PUD
project (“Project”) within Tooele City. On February 15, 2006, Fieldstone’s predecessor in
interest, Gardner-Plumb LC entered into a development agreement titled Amended and Restated
Development Agreement for Copper Canyon PUD (“Development Agreement”). The parties
have not questioned the validity or enforceability of the Development Agreement, nor whether
the Project is governed by the terms of the Development Agreement. The Development
Agreement contains several provisions relevant to this decision. Most importantly, the
Development Agreement states that “Developer agrees to construct and pay for two lanes of
Tooele Boulevard in accordance with plans and specifications determined by the City, including
asphalt, curb and gutter on both sides of the street, sidewalk adjacent to all Copper Canyon
P.U.D. Developed areas, and public improvements.” The Development Agreement was recorded
in the Office of the Tooele County Recorder on March 6, 2006.

On October 2, 2008, following substantial completion of the Project, Fieldstone submitted to
Tooele City a packet titled Application for Reimbursement (“Reimbursement Application”).
Tooele City Ordinance section 7-19-13 permits a subdivision developer to request
reimbursement of the costs to install certain eligible public improvements. In the Reimbursement
Application, Fieldstone requested partial reimbursement of the costs of improvements to Tooele
Boulevard. Fieldstone claimed that Tooele Boulevard is shown on the Tooele City Master
Transportation Plan, and is “a limited access collector road which provides very little benefit to
the project.” Fieldstone goes on to state that the connectivity provided to the project “could have
just as easily been provided by an internal direct access collector street.”

On October 14, 2008, Fieldstone received a letter from Tooele City Mayor Patrick Dunlavy
denying Fieldstone’s Request for Reimbursement. Mayor Dunlavy’s letter referred to an email
from City Attorney Roger Baker for the reasons that reimbursement was rejected. In the email,
Mr. Baker stated that the Developer assumed certain obligations in the Development Agreement,
and the Development Agreement thereby precluded reimbursement for those obligations.

On November 19, 2008, Fieldstone requested an Advisory Opinion from the Office of the
Property Rights Ombudsman regarding whether Fieldstone was entitled to reimbursement under
the Reimbursement Application. By letter dated December 16, 2008, Brent N. Bateman, Lead
Attorney in the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman found that it had limited jurisdiction
to issue an Advisory Opinion in this matter to determine whether Tooele City’s denial of the
Reimbursement Application complied with the law of exactions under UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508.




Advisory Opinion – Fieldstone Homes / Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 10, 2009 – page 3 of 10 pages
                                                    Analysis
     I. The Relationship Between Development Agreements and Exactions

           A.          Development Exactions

“Exactions are conditions imposed by governmental entities on developers for the issuance of a
building permit or subdivision plat approval.” B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County,
2006 UT 2, ¶ 34, 128 P.3d 1161, 1169. 1 The term “exaction” includes any condition on
development, including not only dedication of property, but also payment of money, installation
of specific improvements, or other requirements imposed by a public entity. Furthermore, the
term “exaction” includes conditions imposed by a general legislative enactment as well as those
imposed by decisions or negotiations on specific proposals. Id., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 46, 128 P.3d at
1170.

In 2005, the Utah Legislature enacted § 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code, which authorizes cities to
impose exactions on new development, within established limits:

           (1) A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed
           in a land use application if:
               (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
           each exaction; and
               (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
           impact of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1). 2 The Utah Supreme Court observed that the language of this statute
was borrowed directly from the U.S. Supreme Court analyses in Nollan v. California Coastal
Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825, 107 S.Ct. 3141 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374, 114
S.Ct. 2309 (1994). See B.A.M, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 41, 128 P.3d at 1170. In those two landmark cases,
the U.S. Supreme Court promulgated rules for determining when an exaction may be validly
imposed under the federal constitution’s Takings Clause. 3 This has come to be known as the
Nollan/Dolan “rough proportionality” test, and that two-part analysis has been codified in UTAH




1
   See also Salt Lake County v. Board of Education, Granite School District, 808 P.2d 1056, 1058 (Utah 1991)
(holding that “development exactions” are “contributions to a governmental entity imposed as a condition precedent
to approving the developer’s project.”)
2
  There is a corresponding statute applicable to counties found at § 17-27a-507 of the Utah Code.
3
  See U.S. CONST., amend. V. (“nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.”) The
Supreme Court has interpreted the Takings Clause as limiting a government’s ability to impose conditions on
development. Furthermore, “[t]he Utah Constitution reinforces the protection of private property against
uncompensated governmental takings . . . .” B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 31, 128 P.3d at 1168. See also UTAH CONST. art.
I, § 22 (“Private property shall not be taken or damaged for public use without just compensation.”)



Advisory Opinion – Fieldstone Homes / Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 10, 2009 – page 4 of 10 pages
CODE § 10-9a-508. 4 In order to be valid, the requirements imposed by the City must satisfy the
rules of this section.

The Utah Supreme Court further honed the “rough proportionality” analysis in B.A.M.
Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2008 UT 45 (“B.A.M. II”), which was a second appeal
stemming from the same development project at issue in the earlier decision. This opinion
explained that rough proportionality analysis “has two aspects: first, the exaction and impact
must be related in nature; second, they must be related in extent.” B.A.M. II, 2008 UT 45, ¶ 9.
The “nature” aspect focuses on the relationship between the purported impact and proposed
exaction. The court agreed that the approach should be expressed “in terms of a solution and a
problem . . . . [T]he impact is the problem, or the burden which the community will bear because
of the development. The exaction should address the problem. If it does, then the nature
component has been satisfied.” Id., 2008 UT 45, ¶ 10.

The “extent” aspect of the rough proportionality analysis measures the impact against the
proposed exaction in terms of cost:

           The most appropriate measure is cost—specifically, the cost of the exaction and
           the impact to the developer and the municipality, respectively. The impact of the
           development can be measured as the cost to the municipality of assuaging the
           impact. Likewise, the exaction can be measured as the value of the land to be
           dedicated by the developer at the time of the exaction.

Id., 2008 UT 45, ¶ 11. The court continued by holding that “roughly proportional” means
“roughly equivalent.” Thus, in order to be valid, the cost of an exaction must be roughly
equivalent to the cost that a local government would incur to address (or “assuage”) the impact
attributable to a new development. Therefore, in order to be a valid exaction, the exaction must
meet each of the aspects of this rough proportionality test.

           B.          Development Agreements

Utah law permits local governments to enter into development agreements with property owners,
see UTAH CODE § 10-9a-102, 5 to govern the development of land within its local boundaries.
Development agreements provide multiple benefits to both the developer and the local
government. For example, a development agreement provides the developer with certainty as to
the regulations and requirements that will be imposed upon the project. To the municipality, a
development agreement helps ensure that the development will proceed in accordance with long
4
   The B.A.M. decision indicates that the Utah Supreme Court—as well as Utah Legislature—agrees that any
condition imposed on development approval is an “exaction,” whether the local government requires dedication of a
property right or not. See B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 46, 128 P.3d at 1171. Based on the language in B.A.M., as well as §
10-9a-508, it appears that the rough proportionality test applies to all conditions imposed on new development.
5
  “(2) To accomplish the purposes of this chapter, municipalities may enact all ordinances, resolutions, and rules and
may enter into other forms of land use controls and development agreements that they consider necessary or
appropriate for the use and development of land . . .” (emphasis added). A corresponding statute applicable to
counties is found at UTAH CODE § 17-27a-102.



Advisory Opinion – Fieldstone Homes / Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 10, 2009 – page 5 of 10 pages
range planning goals. Most importantly, a development agreement can be advantageous to both
parties by facilitating a development process governed by cooperation rather than confrontation.
See Shelby D. Green, Development Agreements: Bargained-For Zoning That Is Neither Illegal
Contract Nor Conditional Zoning, 33 CAP.U.L.REV. 383, 394 (2004). Development agreements
can reduce costs and administration for both parties, and facilitate a project that is beautiful,
workable, and sellable – common goals of the developer and the local government. For these
reasons, development agreements advance important public policies and are to be encouraged.

Nevertheless, the scope of a development agreement is limited, because local governments
cannot enter into contracts that exceed their constitutional or statutory powers. For example, a
municipality cannot by agreement promise to grant the developer certain zoning approvals. A
municipality’s authority to zone and accordingly to impose conditions on a developer is a
delegation of police power received from the state. Marshall v. Salt Lake City, 105 Utah 111,
121, 141 P.2d 704 (1943). The state cannot contract away its police power. Beer Co. v.
Massachusetts, 97 U.S. 25, 33 (1877). Accordingly, an agreement between a developer and a
municipality in which the municipality agrees that it will make certain zoning decisions in the
future is therefore void ab initio. See Green, 33 CAP.U.L.REV. at 401.

If a local government contracts with a private individual, and that contract calls upon the local
government to take an action that the local government does not have constitutional authority to
take, the local government would be operating outside of the proscribed limits of its authority.
See Price Dev. Co. v. Orem City, 2000 UT 26, ¶ 10, 995 P.2d 1237, 1243 (“When reviewing a
local government action, we give local government great latitude in creating solutions to the
many challenges it faces, unless the action “is arbitrary, or is directly prohibited by, or is
inconsistent with the policy of, the state or federal laws or the constitution of [Utah] or of the
United States.”). 6 A development agreement cannot give to the local government authority to act
outside of its constitutional limitations. Since imposing a development condition in violation of
the exaction law would be outside of the constitutional authority of the local government, the
local government cannot do so in a development agreement.

           C.          Applying the Law of Exactions to Development Agreements

The exaction analysis “animates” the Takings Clause of the U.S. Constitution. Monterey v. Del
Monte Dunes at Monterey, LTD, 526 U.S. 687, 703, 119 S.Ct. 1624, 1635 (1999).               The
Nollan/Dolan “rough proportionality test” ensures preservation of rights guaranteed by the
Federal and Utah Constitutions. See B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 41. In addition, rough proportionality
analysis is required by the Utah Code. See UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508. These limitations must
apply to contracts negotiated between local governments and property owners in order to fulfill a
condition imposed on development. Even if the agreements are entered voluntarily, the local
government is constitutionally prohibited from imposing exactions that are constitutionally
disproportionate.

6
 In Price Development Co., the Utah Supreme Court considered the validity of an agreement between a city and a
business, whereby the city provided significant financial incentives so that the business would remain in the city.



Advisory Opinion – Fieldstone Homes / Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 10, 2009 – page 6 of 10 pages
Determining whether an exaction is constitutionally disproportionate in a development
agreement context necessitates the injection of contract law into the rough proportionality
analysis. Under B.A.M II, the rough proportionality analysis requires exactions to be measured in
terms of dollar value—the dollar value of the impact against the dollar value of the exaction.
B.A.M. II, 2008 UT 45, ¶ 10. However, that kind of dollar-for-dollar analysis is inconsistent with
the long-standing principles of contract law. There has never in contract law been a requirement
that the consideration to a contract offered by both parties be equal. “Ordinarily, courts will not
inquire into the adequacy of consideration unless it is so insufficient or illusory as to render
enforcement of the contract unconscionable.” Reese v. Reese, 1999 UT 75, P 27, 984 P.2d 987.
Contract law is based upon the principle that parties should be able to bargain between them as
they see fit, and thereby enjoy the benefit of their bargain. The consideration for a contract
cannot, and should not, always be measured in terms of dollar value. 7 Contract law does not
require that the values exchanged be objectively equal.

This conflict, the dollar-for-dollar exaction analysis in B.A.M. II against the consideration
principles of contract law, is resolvable. Exactions imposed in a development agreement will be
roughly proportionate, and therefore permissible, when those exactions are expressly a part of
the consideration for the agreement, and consideration is actually exchanged and sufficient to not
be unconscionable. In other words, when both parties enjoy the benefit of the bargain they made,
adequacy of consideration can be assumed. Where consideration is adequate, rough
proportionality is found. 8 Conversely, where bargained-for consideration is patently lacking,
such exactions will be disproportionate and therefore illegal.

This approach is consistent with available caselaw. In Toll Bros. Inc. v. County of Burlington, 944
A.2d 1, 18 (N.J. 2008), a developer (Toll Brothers) entered into a development agreement with
the County whereby Toll Brothers agreed to construct numerous roadways as part of a massive
development project. However, circumstances subsequently changed and the developer
dramatically scaled down the original plans. The County nevertheless refused to modify the
development agreement, and insisted that Toll Brothers construct the roads as the development
agreement dictated. The New Jersey Superior Court held that the County could not enforce the
original agreement, because to do so would force Toll Brothers to bear a disproportionate share
of the costs for the public improvements. Even though the development agreement was entered
voluntarily, the “rough proportionality” test required by state and federal law still applied. “If we

7
  Translating the consideration in a contract into a dollar value is under most circumstances virtually impossible, and
courts have never shown a willingness to do so. Doing so would require a quantification of every aspect of
consideration in an agreement and a translation of that aspect into a financial equivalent. Many elements of the
consideration to a contract are intangible and/or have a relatively high value to one party and a low value to another.
Assigning a dollar value to the consideration exchanged in a contract is not only an impossible task, but an unwise
one. See Restatement 2d of Contracts, § 79 (Comment C). Parties enter into contracts in order to obtain the relative
benefit of their bargain. Subjecting the consideration in a contract to such an analysis will certainly cause contracting
parties to hesitate before making such an agreement.
8
  Utah Supreme Count in B.A.M. II affirmed that “as the Court noted in Dolan, exact equality between the factors is
unnecessary. Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S. 374, 391, 114 S. Ct. 2309, 129 L. Ed. 2d 304 (1994) (“No precise
mathematical calculation is required . . . .”); see also Banberry, 631 P.2d at 904 (“Precise mathematical equality 'is
neither feasible nor constitutionally vital.’”).” B.A.M. II, 2008 UT 45, ¶ 12 n.4.



Advisory Opinion – Fieldstone Homes / Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 10, 2009 – page 7 of 10 pages
were to conclude otherwise . . . the effect would be to approve public entities and developers
entering into “voluntary” agreements in violation of the specific provisions of [state law]. Such
an approach cannot be countenanced.” Toll Bros., 944 A.2d at 17.

Nevertheless, the court in Toll Brothers held that the requirement that the developer build
numerous roads was not inherently disproportionate, and therefore illegal. The requirement
became disproportionate because of the changed circumstances. “A developer should be
permitted to advance a material change in circumstances, short of abandonment, as a basis for a
declaration . . . that the conditions, legitimate when originally imposed, have subsequently been
rendered illegal.” Id. at 18. The Toll Brothers court did not inquire into the value of the
consideration or the proportionality of the consideration, but only found that since the
development was now a fraction of its original size, the road building requirement in the
development agreement was now patently disproportionate, and therefore, an illegal exaction. 9

As stated above, development agreements between local governments and developers are
mutually advantageous contracts that should be encouraged. As in any contract, the parties to the
contract may voluntarily undertake obligations in consideration of the promises of the other
party. The parties can certainly agree that, as part of the consideration, the developer will
construct and dedicate public facilities. As long as consideration for such a promise is actually
exchanged, and is not patently disproportionate, the constitutional protections against illegal
exactions are not violated.

     II. Fieldstone’s Agreement to Construct Tooele Boulevard is Part of the Overall
         Consideration in the Development Agreement, and Complies with the Nollan/Dolan
         Test

The construction of Tooele Boulevard under the Development Agreement satisfies the
Nollan/Dolan rough proportionality test. The construction of Tooele Boulevard satisfies the first
half, or “prong” of the Nollan/Dolan test. Building and maintaining adequate roadways is a
legitimate government interest. UTAH CODE § 10-8-8; see also Carrier v. Lindquist, 2001 UT
105, ¶ 18, 37 P.3d 1112, 1117. 10 Requiring Fieldstone to complete the roadway promotes the
City’s legitimate objectives, so the first prong of § 10-9a-508(1) is satisfied. 11



9
  This approach is also consistent with the previous Advisory Opinion issued by this Office on June 26, 2008 in the
matter between the City of Draper and R&D Property Holding, LLC. In that Advisory Opinion, this Office held that
the developer’s construction of 150 East was not entitled to reimbursement, because the parties recognized that some
consideration had been exchanged for the construction of that road, and that there was no reason to doubt that the
amount exchanged was unfair. That Advisory Opinion also held that the requirement that the Developer construct
Carlquist Drive was an illegal exaction, even though the developer had signed a document indicating a willingness
to build that road. That document was nothing more than an acknowledgement, and did not involve an exchange of
consideration. It therefore did not contain “adequate safeguards against an improper exaction.”
10
   “In order for a government to be effective, it needs the power to establish or relocate public throughways, even at
the expense of some individual citizens, for the convenience and safety of the general public. . . . In fact, cities are
vested with the statutory power to ‘lay out, establish, open, alter, widen, narrow, extend, grade, pave or otherwise



Advisory Opinion – Fieldstone Homes / Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 10, 2009 – page 8 of 10 pages
The requirement also satisfies the second prong of the rough proportionality test in that it is
roughly proportionate to the impact of the development. The Developer specifically agreed in the
Development Agreement to “construct and pay for two lanes of Tooele Boulevard in accordance
with plans and specifications determined by the City, including asphalt, curb and gutter on both
sides of the street, sidewalk adjacent to all Copper Canyon P.U.D. Developed areas, and public
improvements.” 12 Accordingly, this construction is a part of the consideration that the Developer
promised to provide to the City in exchange for the covenants and obligations of the City. 13
There has been no claim that such consideration was not exchanged, or that the Developer did
not receive value from the City or enjoy the benefits of its bargain. There have been no changed
circumstances that would make construction of Tooele Boulevard an unconscionable burden
upon the Developer. Therefore, since the consideration has been exchanged, there has been no
information provided showing that the Developer is bearing more than what is roughly
proportional. The second prong of the Nollan/Dolan test is therefore satisfied. The requirement
that Fieldstone construct Tooele Boulevard in accordance with the Development Agreement is
therefore not an illegal exaction.

                                                    Conclusion
Local governments and developers may enter into development agreements wherein both parties
covenant to undertake certain obligations in consideration of the mutual exchange of promises.
Such agreements are good public policy, and should be encouraged and enforced. Nevertheless,
local governments cannot do by agreement what they have no authority to do otherwise. A local
government may not impose conditions upon development that do not comply with the rough
proportionality test of UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508, even under a development agreement.

When negotiating a development agreement, both parties bargain for an exchange of
consideration that they consider appropriate and adequate. It is impossible and unwise to inquire
into the adequacy of bargained-for consideration. A party’s responsibility to ensure that the
consideration received is adequate to compensate it for the obligations it voluntarily undertakes
is during contract negotiations. Therefore, when a party agrees to undertake an obligation, and
receives the benefit of its bargain in return for that obligation, the consideration is assumed to be
adequate absent changed circumstances or a showing of unconscionability.

improve streets, alleys, avenues, boulevards, sidewalks, . . . and may vacate the same . . . by ordinance’. UTAH CODE
§ 10-8-8." Carrier, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18, 37 P.2d at 1117.
11
   Note that the first prong of the exaction test in § 10-9a-508 requires an essential link between the exaction
(construction of the road) and a legitimate government interest (providing adequate roadways). This first prong does
not, however, require an essential link between the exaction (completing the road) and the approval sought (a
subdivison). See Nollan, 483 U.S. at 837. The “rough proportionality,” or second prong of the test, weighs the
impact of project for which approval has been sought against the nature and extent of the proposed exaction. See
B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶¶ 39-40, 128 P.3d at 1169-70.
12
   To the extent that Fieldstone’s work on Tooele Boulevard exceeds this bargained-for description, such as if the
Developer constructed and paid for three lanes of Tooele Boulevard, that excess would not be a part of the
exchanged consideration under the Development Agreement, and could therefore be an excessive exaction. Such
amounts of excessive construction costs could be reimbursable by the City.
13
   The Development Agreement calls for additional consideration and obligations to be provided by both parties.



Advisory Opinion – Fieldstone Homes / Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 10, 2009 – page 9 of 10 pages
Fieldstone agreed to construct Tooele Boulevard to certain specifications. Doing so was a part of
the bargained for consideration under the Development Agreement. Fieldstone received value
from the City in return, and enjoyed the benefit of its bargain. There has been no showing of
changed circumstances or unconscionability. Therefore, Fieldstone is considered to have been
adequately compensated for construction of Tooele Boulevard, and therefore has not suffered an
illegal exaction.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Fieldstone Homes / Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 10, 2009 – page 10 of 10 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE ANN. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Sharon Dawson, City Recorder
              Tooele City
              90 N Main Street
              Tooele, UT 84074

On this ___________ Day of March, 2009, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
