                     Advisory Opinion #69
                               Parties: Michael Cox and City of Willard
                                          Issued: May 18, 2009

                                          TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      E: Entitlement to Application Approval (Vesting)
                      R(iii): Other Topics (Waiver of Conditions)
                      R(iv): Other Topics (Lot Line Adjustment within a Subdivision)

A flag lot was properly created, and was allowed under existing City ordinances.
The Property Owner’s right to develop the lot vested on the date the application
was submitted. Even if acquisition of additional property were a condition, the
property owners complied by acquiring the property. The City is estopped from
claiming that the flag lot was improper, because the subdivision was approved,
and the City issued a building permit. The owners relied on the City’s
representations, and are not creating a new flag lot, but merely adjusting the
boundaries of the existing flag lot so that a new lot could be created.
.

                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                           State of Utah
                           Department of Commerce
JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
       Governor
                           OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 GARY R. HERBERT
 Lieutenant Governor


                                            ADVISORY OPINION

       Advisory Opinion Requested by:                 Michael Cox

       Local Government Entity:                       Willard City

       Applicant for the Land Use Approval:           Michael Cox

       Project:                                       Subdivision of Parcel

       Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 May 18, 2009

       Opinion Authored By:                           Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney, Office of the Property
                                                      Rights Ombudsman

                                                      Issues
       I.        Did the property owners create a valid flag lot in 1998, before flag lots were prohibited
                 by the City?

       II.       May the City’s Board of Adjustment grant a variance adjusting the width requirements in
                 order to allow building on a lot?

                                      Summary of Advisory Opinion
       In 1998, the property owners applied for a subdivision of a parcel, proposing a “flag lot,” which
       was allowed under the City’s ordinances in effect at the time. The City approved the
       subdivision, including the flag lot, and issued a building permit to construct a home on the lot.
       Shortly after that approval was granted, the City amended its zoning ordinances to ban flag lots.
       However, the subdivision had already been approved, so the City cannot question its existence.

       The property owners have acquired some adjoining property, and are petitioning to add that
       property to the flag lot, and adjust the remaining lot boundaries. This does not create a “new”
       flag lot, but only adjusts the boundary of the existing lot.

       The City’s Board of Adjustment may grant a variance to the width requirements. Variances are
       within the discretion of the Board, and may be granted if the Board finds that criteria listed in the
       Utah Code are met. The Board may also require conditions which mitigate or lessen the impact
       of the variance.
                                                     Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-
205. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Michael Cox on March 24, 2009. A copy
of that request was sent via certified mail to Ryan Tingey, Mayor of Willard City. The City
received the request on April 2, 2009. The City submitted a response to the Office of the
Property Rights Ombudsman, which was received on April 27, 2009. Mr. Cox emailed
additional information on May 4, 2009. The parties also participated in mediation held on May
7, 2009 at the Willard City Offices.

                                                   Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, including attachments, filed March 24, 2009 with
                 the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman by Michael Cox.
     2.          Response from Willard City, submitted by Jay Aguilar, City Planner, received on
                 April 27, 2009.
     3.          Email reply from Michael Cox, received May 4, 2009.

                                                 Background
Michael Cox owns property located on Main Street in Willard. The property has been in his
family for several years. 1 Until 2007, the parcel consisted of approximately 2.3 acres, and was
approximately 198 feet wide, and had a home that had been built several years earlier. In 1998,
Mr. Cox and Charles Paul applied to subdivide the lot. However, the City’s zoning ordinance
required that all lots be at least 100 feet wide. The parcel was just barely too narrow to
accommodate two 100-foot wide lots.           A variance was requested to modify the width
requirement, but the request was denied.


1
 The Cox family includes Michael, his father, and his brother, who were all involved in the subdivision applications.
Charles Paul was also involved as a purchaser. For the sake of convenience and clarity, this Opinion will refer to
Michael Cox as if he were singly responsible.

Advisory Opinion – Cox/Willard City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 18, 2009 – page 2 of 8 pages
Mr. Cox and Mr. Paul then sought to create a “flag lot” on the property. 2 Most of the records
concerning his application are no longer available; however, the minutes of the City Council
indicate that the flag lot subdivision was approved in March of 1998. The total area of the flag
lot was about ½ acre. The lot included a 20-foot wide lane, which connected the lot to Main
Street. The owners recorded deeds describing the lot shortly after approval. The City issued a
building permit in June of 1998 to Mr. Paul, who proceeded to construct a home on the flag lot.
Mr. Paul also undertook the expense of installing a fire hydrant and a culvert for the entry to the
flag lot. Shortly after Mr. Paul’s subdivision application was approved, the City enacted an
ordinance prohibiting flag lots.

The City states that it agreed to the subdivision on the condition that the owners acquire title to a
lane that runs along the southern boundary of the original parcel. This lane was not part of the
property that was subdivided in 1998. It has been used to access property to the rear of the Cox
parcel, including access by the City for flood control on that rear property. Ownership of the
lane was in dispute, and in 2007 Mr. Paul was able to acquire title through a tax deed. 3 The lane
has not been joined to the original Cox parcel.

In 2005, Leland Jacobsen, the City Planner, issued a written statement explaining the status of
the 1998 subdivision application. In this memo, written on City letterhead, Mr. Jacobsen stated
that the City had consulted its records and found that in 1998, three lots were created from the
original Cox parcel: (1) Lot 1, a 1.28 acre lot where the original home is located; (2) Lot 3, the
flag lot, with a home constructed in 1998; and (3) Lot 2, a lot between Main Street and the “flag”
portion of the flag lot, which did not contain any buildings. Lot 2 was described as a “residual”
lot, and, at 98 feet, was still too narrow to meet the minimum width requirement. In order to
obtain a building permit, the lot would need to be wider. 4

After Mr. Paul obtained title to the lane adjoining the parcel, the property owners applied for
approval to join the lane to the flag lot, and adjust the boundaries of the other lots. They
proposed that the lane become the access, or “pole” of the flag lot. The lane would serve the flag
lot, and the City would be permitted to use the lane to access the storm water facilities to the east
of the flag lot. The existing access lane would be eliminated, and returned to the “residual” lot
(Lot 2). Finally, a small triangular portion would be removed from Lot 1, and joined to the flag
lot. 5 The addition of the lane provides more than enough frontage to create a lot from the
“residual” lot. However, that additional width includes the access for the flag lot, which must
belong to that lot. Therefore, the residual lot (Lot 2) is still a few feet too narrow to be allowed


2
  A “flag lot” accesses a public road via a lane or driveway, with the bulk of the lot in the rear of existing
development. Such lots allow for development of interior properties. The flag lot created in 1998 was for Charles
Paul.
3
  Because the previous owner did not pay property taxes on the lane for five years, Mr. Paul was able to acquire title
by paying the back taxes, and filing a quiet title action in district court.
4
  The “residual” lot borders the access lane, or “pole” of the flag lot. According to the City’s ordinance, the access
for a flag lot must be part of that lot. If that is the case, the residual lot would actually be 20 feet narrower than the
Jacobsen memo indicated, in order to accommodate the flag lot.
5
  This would not negatively impact the width or area of either lot, and was proposed as a compromise with the owner
of the flag lot.

Advisory Opinion – Cox/Willard City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 18, 2009 – page 3 of 8 pages
as a lot. The City rejected the application to adjust the boundaries, because the City’s planner
believed that the application would create a flag lot, which is prohibited by current ordinances.

In November of 2008, Mr. Cox applied for a variance to allow the flag lot. 6 The City’s Board of
Adjustment denied the variance application. Mr. Cox then proposed narrowing the access lane
slightly, to make the residual lot 100 feet wide, and granting an easement to the flag lot owners to
preserve the width of the access lane. This proposal, however, did not resolve the width
problem, but merely transferred it to the flag lot. The City’s ordinances require that the access
portion of a flag lot be at least 20 feet wide, and that the entire access be part of the flag lot. In
order to make the new proposal valid, the City would need to grant a variance altering the width
of the access lane.

The City maintains that the 1998 subdivision is invalid, because the owners did not fulfill all of
the conditions until after flag lots were prohibited. According to the City, the owners’ right to
create a flag lot did not vest until all of the conditions were met.

                                                  Analysis
I.      The Flag Lot was Created by the 1998 Subdivision.

The City approved the subdivision application in 1998, which created the flag lot. Although the
City imposed conditions on that approval, the owners’ right to develop the flag lot vested when
the application was submitted.

        [A]n applicant for subdivision approval . . . is entitled to favorable action if the
        application conforms to the zoning ordinance in effect at the time of the application,
        unless changes in the zoning ordinance are pending which would prohibit the use
        applied for, or unless the municipality can show a compelling reason for exercising
        its police power retroactively to the date of application.

Western Land Equities, Inc. v. City of Logan, 617 P.2d 388, 391 (Utah 1980). A property owner
may therefore rely upon the language of the zoning ordinance in effect on the date an application
is submitted. After a conforming application has been submitted, the local government may not
change its zoning ordinance to prohibit the application from being approved.

Although the records are scant, it is not disputed that Mr. Paul applied for subdivision approval
in the early part of 1998 (or the last part of 1997). At the time of the application, the City’s
ordinances allowed flag lots. The application proposed a flag lot on the Cox parcel. That
application was considered and approved by the City’s Planning Commission and the City
Council. The minutes from March and April of 1998 show that the City Council approved the
application, and specifically approved a flag lot.

Evidently, the City directed Mr. Cox or Mr. Paul to acquire title to the adjoining lane in order to
allow the creation of a third lot on the parcel (the lot referred to as “the residual lot”). The
6
 According to Mr. Cox, the variance request proposed a reduction of either the lot width requirement, or the width
of an access lane for a flag lot. Either variance would allow the residual lot (Lot 2) to be created.

Advisory Opinion – Cox/Willard City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 18, 2009 – page 4 of 8 pages
additional property was necessary so that the residual lot could satisfy the width requirement. 7
However, that additional property had no impact on the existence of the flag lot, which satisfied
the criteria of the City’s zoning ordinance when it was created in 1998. No additional property
was necessary for the flag lot, and so the acquisition of the lane cannot be a condition on the
existence of the flag lot. The property owners are proposing that the flag lot be reconfigured due
to the additional property. That does not mean that a new lot is being approved, only a change to
an existing lot.

The City appears to take the position that the flag lot does not legally exist because the owners
did not join the lane to parcel until they applied to do so recently. Even if the additional property
were required to make the flag lot comply with zoning ordinances, the owners have acquired the
property. All that remains to be done is approval to join the additional property to the lots. The
owners appear to have diligently worked to comply with the condition, which necessarily
required some time to complete. Moreover, even if the acquisition of the adjoining property was
a condition precedent to creating the flag lot, the vesting rule of Western Land Equities mandates
that once the condition is satisfied, the subdivision must be approved under the ordinances in
existence on the date of the application. Intervening ordinance changes cannot take away the
owners’ rights.

To conclude, is clear that the City approved the flag lot as it is currently configured, and that the
flag lot does not require additional property to make it comply with the City’s standards in effect
when the owners applied for the subdivision in 1998. Therefore, the City cannot negate the
owners’ vested right to the flag lot because intervening ordinances were adopted particularly
when the owners have diligently sought to acquire the property as suggested by the City.

II.     The City is Estopped from Denying the Legal Existence of the Flag Lot.

The City’s approval of the 1998 application, coupled with its recognition of the lot, prevents it
from denying that the lot legally exists. Local governments are estopped, or barred, from
claiming that a zoning use is prohibited “when a property owner, relying reasonably and in good
faith on some government act or omission, has made a substantial change in position or incurred
such extensive obligations or expenses that it would be highly inequitable to deprive the owner
of his right to complete his proposed development.” Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 391. In
addition,“[t]he action upon which the developer claims reliance must be of a clear, definite and
affirmative nature.” Utah County v. Young¸ 615 P.2d 1265, 1268 (Utah 1980).

The City is estopped from asserting that the flag lot is not permitted because the owners
reasonably relied upon the City’s clear, definite, and affirmative acts. First, the City Council
approved the subdivision application in 1998, specifically stating that the subdivision created a
flag lot. Second, the City issued a building permit to Mr. Paul for a home on the flag lot. A
reasonable person would conclude that those two acts indicated that the City accepted the
existence of the lot. Furthermore, the owners made substantial changes relying upon those acts.
The property owner transferred ownership of the flag lot to Mr. Paul, who incurred the expense

7
  This was explained by the Leland Jacobsen memo in 2005. The additional property was necessary to make the
residual lot wide enough, not the flag lot.

Advisory Opinion – Cox/Willard City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 18, 2009 – page 5 of 8 pages
of constructing a home on the flag lot. These are extensive obligations and expenses, and it
would inequitable to deny the existence of the flag lot at this point.

In contrast, estoppel does not prevent the City from claiming that the residual lot does not
comply with its standards. The 2005 memo from Leland Jacobsen points out that the residual lot
had insufficient frontage, and a building permit for that lot could not be approved. There is thus
no City action indicating that the residual lot would be acceptable that would justify reliance by
the owners.

III. It is Possible to Vary Either of the Width Requirements.

The City’s Appeal Authority may approve a variance to either width requirement, which would
allow the residual lot to be developed. The City’s zoning ordinance require that lots have a
minimum width of 100 feet, and that access lanes for flag lots be at least 20 feet wide. Because
there is not enough frontage to accommodate the residual lot and the access lane—even with the
addition of the adjoining property—the width requirement for either the lane or the lot will need
to be adjusted before a building permit may be issued for the residual lot.

Variances of local zoning ordinances may be approved by local appeal authorities only if:

           (i) literal enforcement of the ordinance would cause an unreasonable hardship
               for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general purpose of the
               land use ordinances;

           (ii) there are special circumstances attached to the property that do not generally
                apply to other properties in the same zone;

           (iii) granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial property
                 right possessed by other properties in the same zone;

           (iv) the variance will not substantially affect the general plan and will not be
                contrary to the public interest; and

           (v) the spirit of the land use ordinance is observed and substantial justice done.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-702(2)(a). A variance may be granted if the local appeal authority
feels one is justified by all five of these criteria. 8 See Wells v. Board of Adjustment¸ 936 P.2d
1102, 1104 (Utah Ct. App. 1997). In addition, the hardship may not be self-imposed or
economic, and the special circumstances must relate to the hardship. UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-
702(2)(b)-(c). A local appeal authority may not grant a “use variance,” which would allow a use
expressly prohibited by a zoning ordinance. 9 See id., § 10-9a-702(5).

8
  Every local government must appoint an appeal authority to consider variance applications and zoning appeals.
This authority may be a board of adjustment or a hearing officer. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-701.
9
  It should be noted that granting a variance adjusting the width of the access lane does not somehow “resurrect” flag
lots within the City. The variance would only affect that lot, and would be simply an adjustment of the requirements
previously found in the City’s ordinances.

Advisory Opinion – Cox/Willard City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 18, 2009 – page 6 of 8 pages
The width requirements in the City’s code may be varied if the City’s Board of Adjustment feels
a variance is warranted. Such a variance would only adjust a specific requirement pertaining to
the width of one lot within the City. It would not allow an impermissible use or create an
unauthorized lot. Furthermore, each variance decision must be based on the circumstances of the
property in question. Prior decisions do not bind a city to the same actions in the future. Every
parcel of property is unique, every development is unique, and zoning authorities must have
discretion to take actions that are deemed best to address each particular situation.

           It must be remembered that zoning is not a static thing which once established
           becomes set in concrete forever. . . . It is obvious that there must be some
           pliability so that in performing its function the [local government] may keep
           abreast of changing conditions as life courses onward and meet the varying needs
           of the growing [locality].

Naylor v. Salt Lake City Corp., 17 Utah 2d 300, 302, 410 P.2d 764, 766 (1966). Past actions in
similar circumstances may be evidence that the same decisions could be adopted, but they do not
force a local government to always take the same action. 10

This Opinion does not state that a variance should be granted, only that one could be granted.
The focus of the inquiry should be whether an adjustment to one of the two width requirements
should be varied in order to allow a building on the residual lot. The overall parcel is large
enough to accommodate at least five lots, but is so narrow that only two lots are possible (at least
without a new access road). A board of adjustment may conclude that a narrow, deep lot
constitutes a special circumstance, because it hinders development and efficient use of property.
In addition, the access drive for the flag lot must be allowed. This reduces the available frontage
for the residual lot, and may constitute a special circumstance.

Literal enforcement of the width requirement prevents development of the residual lot which
could be found to constitute an unreasonable hardship on the property owners. The owners are
proposing to build a residence on the residual lot, which is a property right enjoyed by other
properties in the area. Because the proposed development is no different than what is being done
in that vicinity, a board of adjustment could find that a variance is justified because it would not
substantially affect the general plan. A small adjustment to a width requirement could be found
to be consistent with the spirit of the zoning ordinance, and necessary to provide substantial
justice.

An appeal authority is also authorized to impose conditions on a variance, which mitigate, or
lessen, the impact of the variance, and help serve the purpose of the standard being mitigated.
See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-702(6). It would therefore be within a board of adjustment’s
authority to require conditions such as landscaping, setbacks, even placement of buildings, if
those conditions are designed to lessen the impact of the variance.


10
   See, e.g. Cottonwood Heights Citizens Ass’n v. Board of Commissioners of Salt Lake County, 593 P.2d 138, 140
(Utah 1979) “The fact that a prior application has been denied should not preclude the Commission from granting a
later application if there has been a material change in circumstances.” (citations omitted).


Advisory Opinion – Cox/Willard City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 18, 2009 – page 7 of 8 pages
                                           Conclusion
The flag lot was created by the City in 1998. Its existence should not be in question now. The
right to subdivide property in a certain way vests on the date a conforming application is
submitted. The City’s zoning ordinance may prohibit flag lots now, but it did not in 1998, when
the owners applied for the subdivision. The proposed lot line adjustment, to add adjoining
property, does not affect the legal existence of the flag lot, only its boundaries. In addition, by
approving the subdivision and granting a building permit, the City is estopped from claiming that
the flag lot is not allowed.

There is still insufficient frontage to allow the creation of a third building lot from the “residual
lot.” The City’s Board of Adjustment may grant a variance, adjusting either the lot width
requirement, or the width requirement for the access lane serving the flag lot. Such a variance
would allow creation of the residual lot as a conforming building lot. The Board of Adjustment
would need to make the findings required by § 10-9a-702 of the Utah Code, but has discretion to
determine that a variance is justified. If a variance is granted, the Board may also require
conditions meant to mitigate the impact of the variance.



Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Cox/Willard City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 18, 2009 – page 8 of 8 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

           Mayor Ryan Tingey
           Willard City
           80 West 90 South
           Willard, Utah 84340

On this ___________ Day of May, 2009, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
