                     Advisory Opinion #43
                Parties: Duane Johnson, D & D Concrete, Inc and Morgan County
                                          Issued: June 12, 2008

                                         TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      E: Entitlement to Application Approval (Vesting)
                      F: Complete Land Use Application
                      J: Requirements Imposed Upon Development

A land use applicant is entitled to approval if the application conforms to land use
regulations in effect when a complete application is submitted. There was no
evidence that the proposal failed to comply with the requirements in effect when
the application was submitted. A zoning change enacted after the application did
not alter the applicant’s vested rights. The County’s decision denying the
application does not meet the “substantial evidence” test and is therefore arbitrary
and capricious.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                                      State of Utah
                                      Department of Commerce
  JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
                                      OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor



                                                             ADVISORY OPINION

            Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                 Duane Johnson
                                                                           D&D Concrete, Inc.
                                                                           Soderby, LLC
                                                                                 by Melven E. Smith, Smith Knowles

            Property Owner / Developer:                                    Duane Johnson

            Applicant for the Land Use Approval:                           Nilson Homes

            Project:                                                       Aspen Meadows Phase II Subdivision

            Date of this Advisory Opinion:                                 June 12, 2008

            Opinion Authored By:                                           Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney,
                                                                           Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                                           Issues
            Is the Developer entitled to approval of its land use application for the Aspen Meadows Phase II
            Subdivision under a zoning designation enacted by the County in December, 2006?

                                                      Summary of Advisory Opinion
            Nilson Homes is entitled to approval of its application. On December 19, 2006, the Morgan
            County Council changed the zoning of the property from A-20 & RR-1 zoning to CD (Central
            Development). The record indicates that Nilson Homes submitted a complete land use
            application, which appears to conform to the requirements of the County’s land use maps, zoning
            map, and applicable land use ordinance in effect. Therefore, as of that date, Nilson Homes
            became entitled to approval of its application by operation of UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-
            509(1)(a)(i).

            In addition, Morgan County’s denial Nilson Homes concept plan application was arbitrary and
            capricious, because it was not supported by substantial evidence on the record.




160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
                                                    Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of § 13-43-205 of the Utah
Code. The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or
other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such
a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from Melven E. Smith on May 22, 2008. A
letter with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return receipt requested, to Jann L.
Farris, Morgan County Attorney, at 48 Young Street, P.O.Box 886, Morgan, Utah 84050. The
return receipt was signed and was received on May 27, 2008, indicating that Morgan County had
received it. A response was received from Sherrie Christensen, Morgan County Community
Development Director via email on June 6, 2008.

                                                   Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.         Request for an Advisory Opinion received May 22, 2008 at the Office of the Property
                Rights Ombudsman by Melven E. Smith, including exhibits.
     2.         Response email from Sherrie Christensen, Morgan County Community Development
                Director, received June 6, 2008.

                                                 Assumed Facts
For the purposes of the Opinion, it is assumed that there are no objections to approving the
subdivision application other than the issues addressed herein. No objections have been
identified by either party.

                                                  Background
On October 19, 2006, the Morgan County Council held a noticed public hearing to consider
Duane Johnson/Nilson Homes’ (“Nilson” or “Developer”) petition to rezone approximately 112
acres (the “Property”) from A-20 & RR-1 zones to the Central Development (“CD”) zone. The
Morgan County Planning Commission recommended that the County Council approve the zone
change in conjunction with a “limited concept plan” application for a mixed use development.
The record indicates that the limited concept plan application showed a “bubble-type” plan,
generalizing areas of multi-family, single family and commercial uses, rather than showing
specific uses, layouts, and densities. After the public hearing, the City Council approved the


Advisory Opinion – Duane Johnson/Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 12, 2008– page 2 of 9 pages
rezone petition “in conjunction with a limited concept plan application for a mixed use
development.”

Throughout 2007, Morgan County sought and received assistance from American Institute of
Architects for the professional design of the Mountain Green Town Center. This design process
utilized the work of design professionals, architects and planners, and took several months to
complete. The ultimate design had a direct effect on Nilson’s potential development of the
Property. It appears that the Mountain Green Town Center design remains in draft form and was
not formally adopted into the County ordinances.

On January 3 and 17, 2008, the Morgan County Planning Commission reviewed a revised
concept plan submitted by the Developer. The revised concept plan incorporated only 38 of the
118 acres included in the original December 19, 2006 “limited concept” plan. The revised
concept plan no longer included the ambiguous “bubble” diagram, but included specific dwelling
unit, street, and open space layouts, including a proposal for 260 town home units. The Planning
Commission required that the Developer make certain revisions to the concept plan, some in
consideration of the Mountain Green Town Center redesign. On March 6, 2008, the Planning
Commission recommended approval of the revised concept plan to the County Council, finding
that the concept plan was in accord with the General Plan, the land use ordinance, the Mountain
Green Area Plan, and the draft redesign of the Mountain Green Town Center.

On March 18, 2008, the County Council denied Nilson Homes’ Concept Plan Application based
on findings that the concept plan was “significantly different from the limited concept approved
in December of 2006 in the density and the types of units that were offered.” Some members of
the Council stated a belief that because a concept plan is only valid for one year, the zone change
approved with the concept plan also expired.

The Developer has requested this Advisory Opinion to examine the legal status of its land use
application, which it believes to be entitled to approval. The City has also raised issues regarding
the ongoing validity of the zone change.

                                                       Analysis
I.         Nilson Was Entitled To Approval of Its Concept Plan Application

           A.         The Vesting Rule under UTAH CODE § 17-27a-508

In Utah, a land use applicant is entitled to approval if the application conforms to the
requirements of the county’s land use maps, zoning map, and applicable land use ordinance in
effect when a complete application is submitted and all fees have been paid. UTAH CODE ANN. §
17-27a-508(1)(a). 1 This rule, known as the “vesting rule,” was adopted in Utah in 1980 in the
case of Western Land Equities, Inc. v. City of Logan, 617 P.2d 388, 396 (Utah 1980), and later


1
    Statutory exceptions to this rule exist. None are relevant to this Advisory Opinion.


Advisory Opinion – Duane Johnson/Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 12, 2008– page 3 of 9 pages
codified. According to Western Land Equities, the intent of the rule is to provide some reliability
and predictability in land use regulation:

           It is intended to strike a reasonable balance between important, conflicting public
           and private interests in the area of land development. A property owner should be
           able to plan for developing his property in a manner permitted by existing zoning
           regulations with some degree of assurance that the basic ground rules will not be
           changed in midstream.

Id. at 396. This rule dictates how a county can control the land use activities within its
boundaries. If restrictions or guidelines on development are desired, the County may adopt
ordinances to impose such restrictions and guidelines. Such ordinances usually take the form of
zoning designations. Once properly enacted, those ordinances must be followed by land use
applicants. Applicants who do follow those enacted requirements are entitled to approval of their
application. In other words, once an application that complies with the ordinance in effect has
been submitted, the County has no discretion to deny the application. If the County adds new
requirements or change the ordinance, those changes are not applicable to the application.
Applicants have an appropriate expectation that their application will not be denied midway
through the process by unstated rules.

           B.         The Record Indicates That the Application Was Entitled To Approval

The record in this case indicates that Nilson’s application for Concept Plan approval conformed
to the requirements of the Morgan County’s land use maps, zoning map, and applicable land use
ordinance in effect at the time that it was submitted. On March 16, 2008, the Morgan County
Planning Commission made a specific finding of fact that the “application is in accord and
consistent with the General Plan and with the policies and provisions of the PUD.” In addition,
County Planning Staff recommended approval of the application based upon its finding that the
application was in accord with the General Plan, the land use ordinance, the Mountain Green
Area Plan, and the draft redesign of the Mountain Green Town Center. No evidence to the
contrary has been submitted. Most importantly, in denying Nilson’s application, the County
Council did not cite any aspect of the application which did not conform to the requirements of
the Morgan County’s land use maps, zoning map, and applicable land use ordinances. Rather, the
only reason given for the denial by the County Council was that the revised concept plan was
significantly different from the limited concept plan. 2 Those differences must be shown to
violate the CD zone regulations to justify denying the application. Because the application
conformed to the requirements of the Morgan County’s land use maps, zoning map, and
applicable land use ordinances, Nilson was entitled to approval of its concept plan application.



2
 According to the minutes of the Morgan County Council Meeting of December 19, 2006, the Council approved the
following motion: “Motion by Member Sanders to approve rezone petition for 112 acres south of Old Highway
Road from A-20 & RR-1 zoning to CD (Central Development) in conjunction with a limited concept plan
application for a mixed use development.”


Advisory Opinion – Duane Johnson/Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 12, 2008– page 4 of 9 pages
II. The County’s Denial of the Application was Arbitrary and Capricious

B.         Administrative vs. Legislative Acts

In Utah, a land use decision is upheld on appeal unless it is arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. UTAH
CODE ANN. § 17-27a-801. An examination into whether a land use decision is arbitrary and
capricious must always begin by determining whether the decision is legislative or
administrative. Bradley v. Payson City Corp., 2003 UT 16. 3 This distinction is vital for many
reasons; primarily because the two types of decisions are entitled to varying deference when
being reviewed on appeal. According to the Utah Code, a legislative decision such as a zoning
change will almost always be upheld on appeal, along as it is reasonably debatable that the action
promotes the general welfare. UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-801(3)(b). Accordingly, the County has
great deference to make such decisions. However, an administrative decision, such as
subdivision approval or a conditional use permit, will be overturned if it is not supported by
substantial and factual evidence, which must be included in a formal record. UTAH CODE ANN. §
17-27a-801(3)(c).

In the land use context, substantial evidence is defined as “that quantum and quality of relevant
evidence that is adequate to convince a reasonable mind to support a conclusion.” Bradley v.
Payson City Corp., 2003 UT 16 (quoting First Nat'l Bank of Boston v. County Bd. of
Equalization, 799 P.2d 1163, 1165 (Utah 1990)). The “substantial evidence” must be located in
the record in order to be considered. Wadsworth Construction, Inc. v. West Jordan, 2000 UT App
49.

The Nilson application involves two related but separate acts by the County. The first is the
application to change the zoning on the property to the CD zone. The second involves approval
of the concept plan application. Although it appears to be common throughout the state for a
zoning application to be made and considered simultaneously with a subdivision application, 4
each of these land use matters must be approached independently. Two decisions must be made,
and each decision must be made according to the procedures and standards applicable to that
decision.

Approval of the zoning change, granted by the County in October, 2006, was a legislative
decision. As a legislative decision, this zone change will not be arbitrary and capricious if it is

3
  Utah Courts have expended significant effort in clarifying the difference between legislative and administrative
decisions by local governments. See, e.g., Bradley v. Payson City Corp., 2001 UT App 9 (vacated 2003 UT 16);
Harmon City, Inc. v. Draper City, 2000 UT App 31; Wadsworth Construction v. West Jordan, 2000 UT App 49. To
summarize, a legislative act is a decision by a local legislative body that results in the creation of a local law or rule.
Legislative acts include the adoption of a new ordinance, amendment to an existing ordinance, changing zoning,
adoption of an official policy, rule, or plan, or annexation of property. Conversely, an administrative act generally
concerns not the creation of new law, but the interpretation or application of existing law. Administrative acts
include granting conditional uses, granting variances, and approving subdivision applications. Zoning decisions are
legislative acts, whereas subdivision application approvals are administrative acts.
4
  This approach has some merit. An understanding of the contemplated subdivision plan may greatly assist the
County when considering a zone change request on a specific parcel.


Advisory Opinion – Duane Johnson/Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 12, 2008– page 5 of 9 pages
reasonably debatable that the zone change served the public welfare. Because it is a legislative
decision, it cannot be changed except through another legislative act by the County. Bradley v.
Payson City Corp., 2003 UT 16, ¶13. On the other hand, approval of the concept plan
application, which does not create new law but instead applies the existing ordinances to the
particular parcel, is an administrative act. A decision to deny a concept plan application is
arbitrary and capricious if it is not supported by substantial evidence in the record.

B.         The Record Does Not Contain Sufficient Substantial Evidence to Deny the Application

In denying the Nilson’s application, the Morgan County Council’s only finding was that “it is
significantly different from the limited concept that was approved in December of 2006 in the
density and the types of units that were offered.” These findings are insufficient to justify denial
of the application. The Council completely fails to indicate how the proposed density and types
of units justify denial of the application. No evidence is provided to show that the proposed
density and types of units are detrimental to the community or are otherwise undesirable. Most
importantly, the Council did not indicate any respect to which the proposed density and types of
units are noncompliant with the policies and requirements of the CD zone. By enacting the CD
zone, the County established the development parameters that it considered desirable within that
zone. Assuming that the proposed density and types of units comply with the CD zone, the
differences between the present and previous applications are irrelevant. The fact that the new
Concept Plan is different from the previous concept plan does not provide sufficient relevant
evidence to convince a reasonable mind that denial of the application is justified. Therefore, in
light of the foregoing, County Council's decision to deny Nilson’s concept plan application was
not supported by the evidence and was therefore arbitrary and capricious.

C.         The CD Zoning Designation Remains Valid

The County questions whether the December, 2006 zone change remains valid. There seems to
be two reasons why this has arisen. The first involves an apparent question by members of the
County Council regarding whether the zone change expired after one year with the expiration of
the previous limited concept plan approval. As discussed above, a zone change and a subdivision
application approval are different decisions, made under different authority, subject to different
rules of approval and review standards. As such, the rules applicable to one (concept plan
approval) cannot be used to invalidate the other (zone change). Moreover, once a zoning
designation is enacted, it can only be changed or terminated by another legislative act. See UTAH
CODE ANN. § 17-27a-503; Bradley v. Payson City Corp., 2003 UT 16. A zoning designation
cannot expire without a legislative enactment that it do so. 5

The second question concerning the validity of the zoning designation concerns the apparent
failure to record the zoning change at the time that it occurred. According to the County’s
submission, the policy by the County is “to approved [sic] and record the ordinance at the same

5
 Even if the zoning designation were to expire, the vesting rule would prevent the expiration from having any effect
on a submitted land use application. Such an application would still be entitled to approval under the expired zoning
designation.


Advisory Opinion – Duane Johnson/Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 12, 2008– page 6 of 9 pages
time the development agreement/final plat are approved and recorded.” As a result, “the
ordinance enacting the zone change to the CD zone was not recorded in December of 2006.” The
lack of recording does not invalidate the zone change. In a recent case, Bissland v. Bankhead,
2007 UT 86, the Utah Supreme Court held that an ordinance is enacted when the Council votes
to approve it. According the Bissland, the failure of a ministerial formality does not invalidate a
passed ordinance:

           Petitioners thus essentially ask us to construe the statutory term “passage” as an
           event marked by the last ministerial formality that must be bestowed on a
           legislative act. This interpretation is contrary to the commonly understood
           meaning of passage as the event at which a legislative body conducts a vote
           favorable to a piece of proposed legislation. Even if we were to include within our
           definition of passage action by the executive branch of government, not relevant
           here, that might be necessary before legislation can take effect, we conclude that
           the plain meaning of passage contemplates events that do not include ministerial
           matters.

Id. at ¶9. Therefore, an ordinance is valid as of the date it is voted upon by the Council.
Ministerial acts, such as recording, are not necessary to validate the ordinance. Conversely, the
failure to perform a ministerial act cannot keep an ordinance from taking effect. Otherwise, the
vesting rule would be impotent. A developer would not be able to rely on the zoning change, and
continue investing in the development, if the developer could not count on the ongoing validity
of the zone change that the County has kept in limbo by failing to record it. Accordingly, the
failure to record the zone change does not render the zone change invalid. The zone change
remains valid.

                                                 Conclusion
A land use application becomes entitled to approval when it conforms to the requirements of the
municipality's land use maps, zoning map, and applicable land use ordinance in effect when a
complete application is submitted and all fees have been paid. Nothing has been provided in the
record to indicate that Nilson Homes’ Concept Plan application did not fully conform to the
ordinances. Therefore, the application has vested, and Nilson Homes in entitled to approval. In
addition, the denial of the application is not supported by substantial evidence on the record.
Therefore, the County acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner when it denied the application.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Duane Johnson/Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 12, 2008– page 7 of 9 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, §13-43-205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.




Advisory Opinion – Duane Johnson/Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 12, 2008– page 8 of 9 pages
                                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

U.C.A. §13-43-206(10)(b) requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to the government
entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with U.C.A. §63-30d-401 (Notices Filed
Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                                            Jann L. Farris
                                            Morgan County Attorney
                                            48 Young Street
                                            P.O.Box 886
                                            Morgan, Utah 84050


On this 12th Day of June, 2008, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                                            ______________________________________________________
                                            Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Duane Johnson/Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 12, 2008– page 9 of 9 pages
