                     Advisory Opinion #34
                     Parties: H. Blaine Walker and City of Cottonwood Heights
                                         Issued: March 25, 2008

                                        TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      B: Conditional Uses

According to Utah law, a conditional use permit may only be denied if it is shown
that the detrimental effects of the use cannot be mitigated by imposing reasonable
conditions. A local government must first identify the possible detrimental effects
of the use and then determine if those effects can be mitigated. Administrative
decisions are afforded judicial deference and will be upheld if they are supported
by substantial evidence.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                                      State of Utah
                                      Department of Commerce
  JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
                                      OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor



                                                             ADVISORY OPINION

            Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                 H. Blaine Walker

            Local Government Entity:                                       Cottonwood Heights

            Project:                                                       Conditional Use Approvals
                                                                           7755 South Wasatch Blvd

            Opinion Authored By:                                           Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
                                                                           Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

            Date of this Revised Advisory Opinion:                         March 25, 2008


                                                                            Issue
            Did the City of Cottonwood Heights properly and legally approve the conditional use application
            for the Wasatch Office Project?

                                                      Summary of Advisory Opinion
            The conditional use application was properly and legally approved, subject to the conditions set
            forth by the City and the mandatory provisions of City Ordinances. Utah Law requires approval
            of an application for a conditional use permit if reasonable conditions can mitigate negative
            impacts of the use. The City has imposed reasonable conditions to mitigate those negative
            impacts. The approval of the application and conditions imposed are supported by substantial
            evidence on the record.

                                                                          Review
            A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
            decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-
            205. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
            administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
            application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
            hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
            neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at



160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from H. Blaine Walker on February 13,
2008. As provided in statute, a letter with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return
receipt requested, to Linda W. Dunlavy, City Recorder, at 1265 Fort Union Blvd., #250,
Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84047. The return receipt was signed and was received on February
15, 2008, indicating that it had been received by the City. A copy of the letter along with the
request was also sent to James Brown, 7696 Quicksilver Drive, Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121.
Mr. Brown has previously submitted an appeal of the Planning Commission Decision on January
31, 2008. Mr. Brown did not respond. W. Shane Topham, attorney for the City of Cottonwood
Heights, spoke with the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman regarding the request on
February 14, 2008. The City submitted its staff report to the Planning Commission to the Office
of the Property Rights Ombudsman on February 20, 2008.

                                                       Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.        Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by H. Blaine Walker, and received by the
               Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman on February 13, 2008.
     2.        Full Staff Report to the Planning Commission, prepared by Michael Black, City
               Planning Director, dated January 3, 2008, with all attached documents.
     3.        Minutes of the Cottonwood Heights City Planning Commission Meeting dated
               Wednesday, January 9, 2008.
     4.        Board of Adjustment Application – Appeal by James Brown, dated January 31, 2008,
               and all attached documents.

                                                      Background
H. Blaine Walker (“Applicant”) has an ownership interest in two parcels of property located in
the City of Cottonwood Heights, Utah (“City”). Both parcels front on Wasatch Boulevard, and
together comprise 5.18 acres of land (the “Property”). There are five residential properties that
abut the Property, and the remainder of the Property is bounded by public roads. The property is
currently within the RM Zone. “Offices, professional and general business” are listed in the
Cottonwood Heights Code as conditional uses within the RM zone. (Cottonwood Heights Code
of Ordinances § 19.34.030(11)). In addition, the Property is subject to the Gateway Overlay Zone
(Cottonwood Heights Code of Ordinances § 19.49), the Sensitive Lands Ordinance (Cottonwood
Heights Code of Ordinances § 19.34.72), Geological Hazards Area Ordinance (Cottonwood
Heights Code of Ordinances § 19.34.75), and various other ordinances.

Sometime before September 8, 2004, Mr. Walker submitted to Salt Lake County a Conditional
Use permit requesting approval to develop office buildings on the Property. On January 4, 2005,

Advisory Opinion – Blaine Walker/Cottonwood Heights
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 25, 2008– page 2 of 7 pages
the City of Cottonwood Heights officially incorporated, and on or about that date, Salt Lake
County closed the conditional use application file without rendering a decision.

On October 17, 2005, the Applicant submitted a new conditional use application to the City.
Between that date and January 9, 2007, the City and the Applicant appear to have prosecuted the
Conditional Use Application with some diligence. According to the City staff report, the
Application had been reviewed multiple times by city planning staff, city engineers, the city
geologist, and UDOT. It appears that the Applicant worked closely with City to address issues
raised during these reviews. In addition, the City provided multiple opportunities for public
comment on the development, including public hearings on the conditional use application.
These public comment opportunities appear to have been availed by many.

On January 9, 2008, the Cottonwood Heights City Planning Commission Meeting met and, after
much discussion, voted to approve the Conditional Use Permit for the property. In approving the
application, the City imposed approximately 44 conditions. 1 In the discussion preceding the
motion, the County discussed the history of the project, the work of staff in reviewing the
project, and the standard for imposing conditions. In the motion, the Commission found that “the
facts seemed to have been exhaustively reviewed and reasonable mitigating conditions can be
imposed.”

It appears that subsequent to the approval of the application, a neighbor or group of neighbors to
the project appealed the approval of the Conditional Use Permit to the Cottonwood Heights
Board of Adjustments. Subsequent thereto, the Applicant requested that this Office provide an
Advisory Opinion under UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-205, to determine whether the Conditional
Use Permit was properly granted by the City.


                                                      Analysis
     I.        The Standard for Reviewing Approval of a Conditional Use Application

          A.        The City Must Approve A Conditional Use Application Where Reasonable
                    Conditions Can Be Imposed To Mitigate Detrimental Effects.

Utah statutes set forth the standard under which a City is to review a proposed conditional use:

          (a) A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are proposed, or
          can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the
          proposed use in accordance with applicable standards.

          (b) If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
          cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the imposition of reasonable
1 The final list of conditions imposed appears to have been modified to some extent by the discussion and motion in

the January 9, 2008 Planning Commission meeting. A final list of the conditions containing the modifications has
not been provided.

Advisory Opinion – Blaine Walker/Cottonwood Heights
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 25, 2008– page 3 of 7 pages
           conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use
           may be denied.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-507(2). 2 Accordingly, in dealing with a conditional use application,
the reviewing authority is to: (1) Identify detrimental effects of the proposed use, using standards
from applicable land use ordinances, and then (2) determine whether those effects can be
mitigated by imposing reasonable conditions. If the detrimental effects can be mitigated, the land
use authority must approve the conditional use.

Rather than the burden being on the applicant to prove that the conditional use permit should be
granted, this statue indicates that approval must be granted unless the City proves that the
application should be denied. To deny a conditional use permit, the City must show that the
detrimental effects cannot be mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions. 3 In other
words, when considering conditional uses, the question is not “why allow the use?” The question
is “why not allow the use?”

           B.       The City’s Decisions will be Upheld if Supported by Substantial Evidence on
                    the Record.

The determinations by the City regarding what are the detrimental effects of the use, whether
those effects can be mitigated by reasonably imposed conditions, and what conditions to impose,
are entitled to a degree of judicial deference. See Springville Citizens for a Better Cmty. v. City of
Springville, 1999 UT 25. The Courts have determined that such decisions will be upheld unless
they are found to be “arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.” Uintah Mt. RTC, L.L.C. v. Duchesne
County, 2005 UT App 565. When a land use decision deemed an exercise of a City’s
administrative powers, Utah Courts have upheld such decisions “if they are supported by
substantial evidence.” See Xanthos v. Bd. of Adjustment of Salt Lake City, 685 P.2d 1032, 1034-
35 (Utah 1984). A conditional use permit review is an administrative act and therefore will be
upheld if supported by substantial evidence on the record. Davis County v. Clearfield City, 756
P.2d 704 (Utah Ct. App. 1988). Utah Courts have defined substantial evidence to be “that
quantum and quality of relevant evidence that is adequate to convince a reasonable mind to
support a conclusion.” Bradley v. Payson City Corp., 2003 UT 16, P10.

Moreover, UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-507(2) reminds us that a City must follow the mandatory
provisions of its own ordinances: “A municipality is bound by the terms and standards of
applicable land use ordinances and shall comply with mandatory provisions of those
ordinances.” Whether a decision is illegal “requires a determination that the . . . decision violates
a statute, ordinance, or existing law.” Uintah Mt. RTC, at ¶ 19.

Therefore, the City is entitled to determine whether there are reasonable conditions that can be
imposed to mitigate the detrimental effects of the development. Once the City has made that
2
    There is a parallel section applicable to counties found at UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-506.
3 This is because of the presumption that conditional uses should generally be allowed since the ordinance would not

list the use as allowable if the use were not desirable in the first place. If certain uses are not desirable at that
location, they should not be listed in the zoning ordinance as permitted or conditional uses in that area.

Advisory Opinion – Blaine Walker/Cottonwood Heights
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 25, 2008– page 4 of 7 pages
decision, it will be upheld unless it is arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. If it is supported by
substantial evidence on the record, it will not be held to be arbitrary or capricious. If it complies
with the provisions of the City’s applicable ordinances and standards, it will not be held to be
illegal.

     II.       The City’s Decision is Supported by Substantial Evidence on the Record

In Springville Citizens v. Springville, 1999 UT 25, the Utah Supreme Court indicated that
“substantial evidence” can be found where there were repeated hearings and meetings, multiple
submissions of information, and extended public discussion. If the required documentation was
before the land use authority and “numerous conditions” are imposed, then substantial evidence
will be found to exist for the decision:

           The undisputed facts demonstrate that the City's decision was not arbitrary or
           capricious but was the result of careful consideration and was supported by
           substantial evidence. Of significant import, consideration of the P.U.D. spanned
           nearly a year and a half and involved more than a dozen separate meetings
           wherein public input was heard, objections voiced, and modifications to the
           P.U.D. imposed. . . . Moreover, throughout the approval process and in an effort to
           meet the P.U.D. requirements, the city council required Peay to satisfy numerous
           conditions concerning the proposed development, all of which Peay eventually
           fulfilled. In short, the undisputed evidence reveals without question that
           substantial evidence supported the City's decision.

As was the case in the Springville Citizens case, it is undisputed in the present case that there
were extensive discussions held over the course of many months regarding the Property. A
multitude of documents have been produced by both the City and the Applicant, and those
documents have been reviewed and commented upon by City staff, engineers, and geologists.
Repeated public hearings and meetings were held. Public comments have received responses.
The issues of geologic stability and fault lines were discussed extensively. The concerns of the
neighbors and other third parties were well known by the Commission as it deliberated. (See the
Minutes of the Cottonwood Heights City Planning Commission Meeting dated Wednesday,
January 9, 2008.)

Finally, in granting approval, the Commission has imposed upon the project an extensive list of
conditions. Among the conditions imposed, at least twenty-five concern project planning issues
such as access, lighting, height restrictions, and construction hours; at least 11 concern
engineering issues such as erosion control, storm water runoff, and utilities; and at least five
more concern geologic concerns, primarily addressing the fault lines.

Considering the comprehensiveness of the record, the extent to which the matter has been
reviewed, the number of hearings held, and the number and breadth of the conditions imposed, it
would be difficult to find that there was not substantial evidence to support the decision by the
Commission. In addition, nothing in the record indicates that the City has failed to comply with


Advisory Opinion – Blaine Walker/Cottonwood Heights
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 25, 2008– page 5 of 7 pages
its own ordinances and standards in approving the application and imposing the conditions. A
court would not upset the local government’s discretion in this matter.

                                                      Conclusion
Under § 10-9a-507 of the Utah Code, conditional use application for the Wasatch Office Project
was properly approved by the Planning Commission. The Commission, staff, and public has
reviewed and commented on the project over the course of several years. Substantial evidence on
the record exists to show that the detrimental effects of the conditional use can be mitigated by
the imposition of certain conditions. The City has imposed those conditions as part of the
approval. Therefore, the City has properly approved the Applicant’s Conditional Use
Application. 4




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




4 This Advisory Opinion does not consider and expresses no opinion regarding the merits of any appeal that may

have been filed by any party. The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman has received a copy of the Appeal filed
in this Matter by James Brown, who represents that the appeal is brought also in behalf of other concerned citizens.
No party has requested that this Office review that Appeal on the merits, and such review would be inappropriate
topic for this Opinion. The Board of Adjustments should review and consider the appeal in accordance with the
standards set forth by state law and city ordinance.

Advisory Opinion – Blaine Walker/Cottonwood Heights
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 25, 2008– page 6 of 7 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-42-205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.




Advisory Opinion – Blaine Walker/Cottonwood Heights
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 25, 2008– page 7 of 7 pages
                                               MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE ANN. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

          Liane Stillman
          City Manager
          1265 E Fort Union Blvd #250
          Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84047

On this ___________ Day of March, 2008, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                                         ______________________________________________________
                                         Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Blaine Walker/Cottonwood Heights
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 25, 2008– page 8 of 7 pages
