                       Advisory Opinion #18

                             Parties: Uintah County and Galway Group, LLC
                                         Issued: August 2, 2007

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                         Exactions on Development

A subdivision plat may be amended or vacated as provided in the Utah Code, even if property
owners do not agree with the proposal. No person may be required to accept ownership of
property, if the property is not wanted.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                                      State of Utah
                                      Department of Commerce
  JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
                                      OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN

     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor


                                                             ADVISORY OPINION
                                                  Amending or Vacating Subdivision Plats


            Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                 Uintah County

            Local Government Entity:                                       Uintah County

            Property Owner:                                                Galway Group, LLC (Petitioner)

            Project:                                                       Lucky Acres Subdivision

            Date of this Advisory Opinion:                                 August 2, 2007

            Advisory Opinion Prepared By:                                  Elliot R. Lawrence, Office of the Property Rights
                                                                           Ombudsman

                                                                           Issues
            1)     May a Local Government Amend a Subdivision Plat if Some Lot Owners Oppose the Action?

            2)     May the Local Government Require a Lot Owner to Accept an Addition of Property to a Lot
                   as a Result of a Subdivision Plat Amendment?

                                                      Summary of Advisory Opinion
            A subdivision plat may be amended or vacated a even if property owners do not agree with the
            proposal. A local government may act with or without a petition, and may approve an amendment
            or vacation if it is found that no material injury would occur, and if there is good cause to approve
            the proposal. If there is opposition to a proposal, or if there are property owners who do not join
            a petition for an amendment, the local government must conduct a public hearing on the proposed
            changes. If a proposed amendment alters or vacates a street, a public hearing must be held, the
            planning commission must recommend approval or denial, and any affected entities must be
            notified. The local government may approve the alteration to a street as part of the overall plat
            amendment.




160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
No person may be required to accept responsibility or ownership of property, if the property is not
wanted. Local governments should work with property owners to avoid circumstances where a
proposed subdivision amendment requires a lot owner to involuntarily accept additional property.
                                                            Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final decision
by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Utah Code Ann. § 13-43-205. An
advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or other
specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such a
review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from Uintah County on July 12, 2007. A letter
with the Request attached was sent via certified mail to: Galway Group, LLC. The return receipt
was signed and was received on July 18, 2007, indicating that the Galway Group had received it.
                                                           Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.        Request for an Advisory Opinion filed July 12, 2007 with the Office of the Property
               Rights Ombudsman by Uintah County
     2.        Copies of Subdivision Plats, including the proposed “Lucky Acres Subdivision”
     3.        Telephone conversation with Edwin T. Peterson, Deputy County Attorney, Uintah
               County

                                              Statutes and Ordinances
     1.        Utah Code Ann. § 17-27a-103
     2.        Utah Code Ann. § 17-27a-208
     3.        Utah Code Ann. § 17-27a-601 through -611

                                                          Background
In 2005, Uintah County approved a subdivision located near Vernal along the Steinaker Service
Canal at approximately 1500 West. That subdivision created nine lots, five of which were
rectangular and about 17,000 square feet apiece. The remaining four parcels ranged from three to
six acres in size, and radiated out from a cul-de-sac. The street which terminated in the cul-de-sac
also accessed the five smaller lots.

By 2006, the five small lots had been sold, but the larger parcels remained unsold. The larger
parcels were acquired by a new developer, who proposed an amendment to the original plat,


Advisory Opinion – Uinta County/Lucky Acres Subdivision
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 2, 2007– page 2 of 7 pages
creating 41 smaller lots where the four large parcels had been. The five small lots in the original
plat would remain unchanged, except for Lot #5, which would be slightly altered. Lot #5 was
originally located on the cul-de-sac, and a portion of the lot’s total frontage was curved. Under
the amended plat, the street no longer included a cul-de-sac, but continued in a straight line past
Lot #5. Consequently, the amendment proposed that a portion of the original cul-de-sac would be
added to Lot #5, increasing its area by about 570 square feet. As a result, Lot #5 would be nearly
identical in size and shape to the other original lots.

The owner of Lot #5 has expressed opposition to the proposed amendment, and has also indicated
opposition to accepting the slight increase in the lot area. The Lot owner did not sign the petition
to amend the plat. There are alternatives which avoid the increasing the area of Lot #5, including
realigning the road so that it bends at that point, or simply keeping that portion of the original cul-
de-sac as part of the public roadway.

                                                          Analysis
I.        Uintah County May Amend the Original Plat, Even if the Owners of Lots Within the
          Subdivision Oppose the Amendment.

Uintah County may approve the plat amendment, even if some lot owners are against the proposal.
An existing subdivision may be vacated or amended by a local government:

          Subject to Section 17-27a-609.5, and provided that notice has been given pursuant
          to local ordinance and Section 17-27a-208, the land use authority may, with or
          without a petition, consider and resolve any proposed vacation, alteration, or
          amendment of a subdivision plat, or any lot contained in a subdivision plat.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-608(1)(a) (counties); see also § 10-9a-608(1)(a) (municipalities).
According to the statute a proposed change to a subdivision does not require a petition from
property owners. If a petition is filed, a public hearing is required if a property owner objects, or
if there are property owners who have not signed a revised plat. Id. § 17-27a-608(1)(b).

The owner of any land within a subdivision may petition to amend the subdivision, or any portion
of it. Id. § 17-27a-608(5) A petition must identify the owners of all land contained in the entire
plat (even if only a portion of the plat is affected), the names of any owners adjacent to any street
that is proposed to be altered or vacated, and the signatures of any property owners consenting to
the petition. Id. § 17-27a-608(6).

A local government may approve the amendment or vacation if there is no material injury, and if
there is good cause that the proposed change should be made:

          If the land use authority is satisfied that neither the public interest nor any person
          will be materially injured by the by proposed vacation, alteration, or amendment,
          and that there is good cause for the vacation, alteration, or amendment, the land use



Advisory Opinion – Uinta County/Lucky Acres Subdivision
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 2, 2007– page 3 of 7 pages
          authority may vacate, alter, or amend the plat or any portion of the plat, subject to
          Section 17-27a-609.5.

Id. § 17-27a-609(1) (counties); § 10-9a-609(1) (municipalities).1 Although it is necessary to hold
a hearing if any property owner objects to the proposal, there is no requirement that all property
owners agree to the amendment or vacation. The land use authority has discretion to determine
whether the proposal would cause a material injury to either the public interest or to any person.
If there is no material injury, and there is good cause, the land use authority may approve the
change to the subdivision.

If the proposal includes vacating or altering a public street, the planning commission must, and
recommend approval or denial, and a public hearing must be held:

          If a petition is submitted containing a request to vacate or alter any portion of a
          street or alley within a subdivision:

          (i) the planning commission shall, after providing notice pursuant to local
              ordinance and Section 17-27a-208, make a recommendation to the land use
              authority concerning the request to vacate or alter; and

          (ii) the land use authority shall hold a public hearing in accordance with Section
               17-27a-208 and determine whether good cause exists for the vacation or
               alteration.

Id. § 17-27a-609.5(1)(a) (counties); § 10-9a-609.5(1)(a) (municipalities).2 If a street is vacated or
altered, the local government relinquishes ownership in the street. Any easements or franchises
by landowners or other public utilities are not impaired by the local government’s action. Id. §
17-27a-609.5(3). The owner of an easement or franchise may, however, voluntarily agree to alter
the property right in a manner consistent with the street alteration or vacation.

These provisions of the Utah Code allow Uintah County to consider a proposal to amend the
subdivision plat. The County must conduct a public hearing, and receive a recommendation from
its Planning Commission. The owners of land within the subdivision have proposed an
amendment. Since it appears that not all property owners in the subdivision agree with the
proposal, the County must consider the proposal at a public hearing. If there is good cause, the
County may approve the amendment, even though some lot owners may be opposed to the
proposal.



1 A “Land Use Authority” is a person, board, commission, or agency authorized by a local government to

act upon an application. This may be a county commission or city council, or another body designated by
ordinance. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-103(18) (counties); § 10-9a-103(15) (municipalities).
2 Section 17-27a-208 requires that notice be given to any “affected entity,” including the State, other

governmental units, school districts, special service districts, and public utilities that may be impacted by
the proposal. See Utah Code Ann. § 17-27a-103(1) (counties); § 10-9a-103(1) (municipalities).


Advisory Opinion – Uinta County/Lucky Acres Subdivision
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 2, 2007– page 4 of 7 pages
Because the proposed amendment alters a street, the County must comply with § 17-27a-609.5.
Any affected entities must be identified and notified, and the planning commission must give a
recommendation on the proposal. The County must conduct a public hearing to consider the street
alteration as part of the plat amendment. The County is not required to approve the street alteration
separately from the overall plat amendment. The alteration to the street does not automatically
change any easements or franchises that may exist in the street, although such rights may be
voluntarily altered.

II.       The County May not Require a Property Owner to Accept Additional Property as a
          Result of the Subdivision Amendment.

A local government cannot require that anyone accept property, even if it is offered free of charge.
It is axiomatic that no person may be forced to take ownership or responsibility for property that
is not wanted.

The proposed plat amendment would require alteration of the street that served the original lots.
Instead of a cul-de-sac, the petitioners propose extending the street to serve several more lots. The
petition proposes that Lot #5 be enlarged, and receive about 570 square feet of land that was
originally part of the cul-de-sac. However, the County cannot force the owner of Lot #5 to accept
this increase. It appears, however, that there are alternatives that allow the proposed plat
amendment without adding property to Lot #5.

                                                          Conclusion
A local government does not need unanimous consent to approve an amendment to a subdivision.
If there are property owners who object, a public hearing must be conducted. The amendment
may be approved if there is good cause, and if no material injury would result. If the proposed
amendment alters or vacates a street, a public hearing must be held, and the planning commission
must recommend approval or denial. Entities affected by the street alteration must be notified and
allowed opportunity to participate in the public hearing. The proposed street alteration may be
approved if there is good cause.

No person may be forced to accept responsibility for additional property if the extra property is
not wanted. If a plat amendment calls for an unwanted addition to any lot, the local government
and the person petitioning for the amendment should develop an alternative that avoids the
problem.




                                                            Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
                                                            Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Uinta County/Lucky Acres Subdivision
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 2, 2007– page 5 of 7 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, § 13-42-205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may not
reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.




Advisory Opinion – Uinta County/Lucky Acres Subdivision
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 2, 2007– page 6 of 7 pages
                                               MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with § 63-30d-401
(Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of Commerce,
Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as designated in that
database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                     Dave Haslem
                     County Commissioner
                     152 E. 100 North
                     Vernal, UT 84078

On this ___________ Day of ______________, 2007, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to
be delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                                          ______________________________________________________
                                          Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Uinta County/Lucky Acres Subdivision
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 2, 2007– page 7 of 7 pages
