                     Advisory Opinion #92
                Parties: Christine Erickson Davis and City of Cottonwood Heights
                                        Issued: November 1, 2010

                                        TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      B: Conditional Uses

Since the City has deemed short-term rentals a conditional use within the zone, it
has determined that short-term rentals are a desirable use, and the City must
grant the use unless it can be shown that detrimental effects of the use cannot be
mitigated. The City’s determination that too many short-term rentals may
constitute a detrimental impact is valid.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                        State of Utah
                        Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                        OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   GREG BELL
Lieutenant Governor


                                         ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:               Christine Erickson Davis

      Local Government Entity:                     Cottonwood Heights City

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:         Christine Erickson Davis

      Project:                                     The Oaks at Wasatch Condominiums

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:               November 1, 2010

      Opinion Authored By:                         Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
                                                   Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                   Issues
      Is a numerical cap on short-term rental units a valid condition on conditional uses within the
      zone?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
      The property owner cannot challenge the enactment of the conditional use permit ordinance,
      because such a challenge is time-barred. An Advisory Opinion on such a challenge is not
      available. Nevertheless, the property owner has also requested an Advisory Opinion on the
      application of the conditional use ordinance to her property, which is a proper subject for an
      Advisory Opinion and is not time-barred.

      The City must accept and process conditional use applications for short-term rentals. The City
      has deemed short-term rentals a conditional use within the zone. Accordingly, the City has
      determined that short-term rentals are a desirable use within the zone, and the City must grant the
      use unless it can be shown that detrimental effects of the use cannot be mitigated. The law and
      City ordinances require a case-by-case determination that the detrimental effects of the use
      cannot be mitigated.

      The City’s determination that too many short-term rentals are a detrimental effect in a residential
      zone is valid. Upon review of a conditional use application, the City may only deny the use of it
can show by substantial evidence on the record that this detrimental effect cannot by mitigated
by imposing reasonable conditions upon the property owner’s use.

                                                                   Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Utah Code § 13-43-205. An
advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or
other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such
a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

A request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Christine E. Davis, by her attorney Stevan
R. Baxter of Olsen Skoubye & Nielson LLC, on July 12, 2010. A copy of that request was sent
via certified mail to Linda W. Dunlavy, City Recorder, registered agent for Cottonwood Heights
City. The return certificate, indicating that the City received the copy of the Request, was
received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman on July 15, 2010. The City, by its
attorney Jody K. Burnett of Williams & Hunt, submitted a response that was received on July 26,
2010. Mr. Baxter submitted a reply on Ms. Davis’ behalf which was received on August 23,
2010.

                                                                  Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

            1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, dated July 12, 2010 with the Office of the Property
               Rights Ombudsman by Christine E. Davis, by her attorney Stevan R. Baxter, with
               attachments.
            2. Response from Cottonwood Heights City, received on July 26, 2010, by Jody K.
               Burnett, Attorney for the City.
            3. Reply of Christine E. Davis by her attorney Stevan R. Baxter received on August 23,
               2010.

                                                                 Background
Christine Erickson Davis owns a condominium at 3573 E. Rustic Springs Lane in Cottonwood
Heights. Her condo is located in the Oaks at Wasatch development, which contains
approximately 121 units. The development is located between Big and Little Cottonwood
Canyons and is accessible to ski areas. The property is zoned for residential uses, with short-term
rentals designated as a conditional use within the zone, as the area attracts out of state skiers.
According to the property owner, 55 of the 121 units currently have conditional use permits for
short-term rentals.

Advisory Opinion – Christine E. Davis./Cottonwood Heights City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 1 2010 – page 2 of 7 pages
In 2006, when Ms. Davis purchased the condominium, there was no cap on the number of
conditional use permits that would be issued for short-term rentals. Ms. Davis purchased her
property with the intent to use it as a primary residence, and did not apply for a conditional use
permit. In 2007, the City amended its zoning ordinance to, among other things, limit the number
of conditional use permits issued for short-term rentals. The City indicates that it did so because
it concluded that an excessive number of short-term rentals would fundamentally change the
community to more of a resort rental community and less of a neighborhood residential zone.
The City determined that it would notify affected property owners of the change, and accept
conditional use permit applications for short-term rentals until January 31, 2008. This would give
property owners that still desired a conditional use permit the opportunity before the limit was
imposed. The City capped the number of available conditional use permits for short term rentals
to the number issued as of January 31, 2008. After that time, permits could only by obtained
when existing permits were revoked or otherwise made available. Ms. Davis did not apply for a
conditional use permit for short-term rental prior to January 31, 2008.

Ms. Davis no longer uses the condo as her primary residence, and would now like to obtain a
conditional use permit for short-term rental. Ms. Davis alleges that she tried to obtain a
conditional use permit application from a City employee, but that employee indicated that the
City was not accepting applications for short-term rentals and would not issue an application to
Ms. Davis. Ms. Davis later obtained and submitted an old application.1 The City notified Ms.
Davis on August 5, 2010 that it would not process her application.

                                                                 Analysis
I.       Ms. Davis’ Challenge to the Enactment of the Ordinance is Time-Barred.

Ms. Davis has requested an Advisory Opinion to address three questions:

            1.      Is a numerical cap limiting the number of conditional use permits that the
            City will issue for short term rentals as found in section 19.89.170 of the City's
            municipal ordinance, arbitrary and capricious?

            2.   Does the City's numerical cap violate Ms. Davis' and other like situated
            homeowner's substantive and/or procedural due process rights?

            3.     Can the City deny Ms. Davis the opportunity to apply for a conditional use
            permit where Ms. Davis can meet the requirements imposed by the City to
            mitigate any reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in
            accordance with applicable standards?

The City argues that Advisory Opinions on the first two of these questions are not available
because, among other reasons, they amount to a facial challenge to the ordinance and are time-
barred.

1
 The Request for Advisory Opinion was submitted to the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman prior to Ms.
Davis filing her application for a conditional use permit.

Advisory Opinion – Christine E. Davis./Cottonwood Heights City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 1 2010 – page 3 of 7 pages
The first question by the property owner concerns whether the cap on short-term rentals imposed
in the ordinance is arbitrary and capricious. The second question posed by the property owner
concerns whether the ordinance has deprived Ms. Davis and others similarly situated of their due
process rights. With both of these questions, the property owner is challenging the ordinance
itself, rather than application of the ordinance to Ms. Davis’ property. The passage of the
ordinance itself is a legislative act. A challenge to the enactment of the ordinance must be made
within 30 days of its enactment. Utah Code § 10-9a-801 states that “If the municipality has
complied with Section 10-9a-205 [concerning notice], a challenge to the enactment of a land use
ordinance or general plan may not be filed with the district court more than 30 days after the
enactment.” There is no allegation that Ms. Davis did not receive notice of the enactment of the
ordinance. Accordingly, Ms. Davis had thirty days from the enactment to challenge the
ordinance. 2 That deadline has passed.

II.      The City Must Accept and Process Conditional Use Permit Applications for Short-
         Term Rentals.

The third question posed by Ms. Davis, however, concerns whether the City can deny her the
opportunity to apply for a conditional use permit, where she can meet the requirements to
mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. This question
concerns not the passage of the ordinance, but the application of the ordinance to Ms. Davis’
property – the denial (or rejection) of her land use application. This is an appropriate subject for
an Advisory Opinion under Utah Code § 13-43-205(1). The question is not time-barred because
the Advisory Opinion has been requested before the final decision on the application has been
made by a local appeal authority. See Utah Code § 10-9a-801, Utah Code § 13-43-205. 3

The City cannot deny Ms. Davis the opportunity to be considered for a conditional use permit. If
a municipality does not desire a particular use within a zone, it need only prohibit that use in its

2
  Even if the challenge were not time-barred, an arbitrary and capricious challenge to an ordinance would be subject
to the “reasonably debatable” standard accorded to all legislative decisions. Under that standard, the ordinance will
not be found arbitrary and capricious if “it is reasonably debatable that the decision, ordinance, or regulation
promotes the purposes of this chapter [LUDMA].” Utah Code § 10-9a-801. This standard is so high that it is
unlikely that the ordinance, if challenged, would be found to be arbitrary or capricious. It is certainly reasonably
debatable that a limit on short-term rentals advances the public welfare. The same is true for a challenge to the due
process validity of an ordinance. Smith Inv. Co. v. Sandy City, 958 P.2d 245 (1998) explains that the court “will
sustain the due process validity of a rezoning ordinance so long as it is reasonably debatable that it is in the interest
of the general welfare.” Id. at 253.
3
  The City argues that “The authority to give an advisory opinion has a threshold requirement, i.e., that there be a
pending land use application awaiting a final decision.” There is no requirement in Utah Code § 13-43-205 that there
be a pending land use application in order to request an Advisory Opinion. The language in Utah Code § 13-43-205
states “At any time before a final decision on a land use application by a local appeal authority” a party can request
an Advisory Opinion. This does not create a requirement that a land use application be pending, but by its plain
language creates a cut-off by which time an Advisory Opinion must be requested. Nothing in the statute prohibits an
Advisory Opinion from being requested because a dispute has arisen before a land use application has been filed
(although in many such cases the controversy may not be ripe for an Advisory Opinion). In some such cases, an
Advisory Opinion may be very helpful in settling a dispute. In addition, some Advisory Opinion subjects, such an
impact fees or nonconforming uses/noncomplying structures, do not necessarily require a land use application in
order to become ripe. Moreover, a condition may arise, such as here, where a City does not permit a land use
application to be filed. The Advisory Opinion can still serve its purpose in such cases.

Advisory Opinion – Christine E. Davis./Cottonwood Heights City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 1 2010 – page 4 of 7 pages
land use ordinances. If a use is deemed a conditional use, the presumption is that the
municipality has found that use to be desirable within the zone. Utah Code § 10-9a-507 states
that the municipality must approve a conditional use if it can impose reasonable conditions that
mitigate the detrimental effects of the use:

            (1) A land use ordinance may include conditional uses and provisions for
            conditional uses that require compliance with standards set forth in an applicable
            ordinance.

            (2) (a) A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are proposed,
            or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of
            the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards.

                (b) If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional
            use cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the imposition of
            reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the
            conditional use may be denied.

Accordingly, under this statute a conditional use may only be denied where no reasonable
conditions can be imposed that can substantially mitigate the detrimental effects of the use. This
contemplates that a showing must be made that no reasonable conditions can be imposed to
mitigate the detrimental effects. Such a showing requires individualized determination of the
detrimental effects of the use.

The City’s refusal to accept or process applications for conditional uses – uses it has designated
as acceptable in its own ordinances – amounts to a pre-determination by the City that no
conditions could ever be imposed that would mitigate the detrimental effects of the use. In such a
case the use has been, by all effects, prohibited. The City should not presume that no property
owner could ever propose or agree to any conditions that would mitigate the detrimental effect of
the use. The statute requires a case-by-case determination of the detrimental effects of the
application, and review of possible mitigating conditions.

In addition, the Cottonwood Heights zoning ordinance states that

            each proposed conditional use shall be evaluated on an individual basis, in
            relation to its compliance with the standards and conditions set forth in this
            chapter and with the standards for the zoning district in which it is located, in
            order to determine whether the conditional use is appropriate at the particular
            location.

COTTONWOOD HEIGHT CODE OF ORDINANCES § 19.84.020 (emphasis added). The City therefore
by its own ordinances mandates an individualized review of conditional use applications. The
City must comply with the mandatory provisions of its own ordinances. Utah Code § 10-9a-
509(2). Furthermore, the City ordinances contain a process for processing conditional use
applications. See COTTONWOOD HEIGHT CODE OF ORDINANCES 19.84. Nothing could be found in
the City ordinances that exempt it from following that process with every conditional use

Advisory Opinion – Christine E. Davis./Cottonwood Heights City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 1 2010 – page 5 of 7 pages
application, or authorizing it to summarily reject, refuse to accept, or refuse to process
conditional use applications. Accordingly, the City must accept, process, and consider all
applications for conditional uses.

III. The Determination to Limit Short-Term Rentals is Valid and Within the City’s
     Discretion

As stated above, the decision by the City to pass an ordinance capping the number of short-term
rentals was legislative. Legislative land use decisions by the City are presumed to be valid, Utah
Code § 10-9a-801(3)(a), and are subject to the reasonably debatable standard of discretion. Utah
Code § 10-9a-801(3)(b).

The City states that the limitation on short-term rentals arose out of concern that too many short-
term rentals would change the character of the neighborhood to more of a resort type area, and
have a detrimental effect on single family nature of the community. Preserving the single-family
nature of an area is a legitimate public concern. Anderson v. Provo City Corp., 2005 UT 5 ¶21
(“The objective of preserving the character of single-family residential neighborhoods is, we
think, a legitimate one.”). The City then determined to address that concern by placing a cap on
the number of short-term rentals. That condition is reasonably related to the harmful condition,
and is reasonably debatable that it furthers the City’s objectives. See id. at ¶21 (“We believe the
municipal council could reasonably conclude that limiting accessory apartment rental to
occupying owners would further this objective.”). Accordingly, the City has legitimately
determined that having too many short-term rentals has a detrimental effect, and has legitimately
determined to address that detrimental effect by limiting short term rentals.

The City’s decision whether to grant Ms. Davis’ request for a conditional use permit (or refuse to
accept or process Ms. Davis’ conditional use application), is an administrative act. An
administrative act must be supported by substantial evidence on the record and not be otherwise
illegal in order to be upheld. Ralph L. Wadsworth Constr., Inc. v. West Jordan City, 2000 UT App
49, ¶9 (“A local government’s land use decision [concerning the granting or denial of a
conditional use permit] is arbitrary and capricious [only] if it is not supported by substantial
evidence.”). Accordingly, if the City denies Ms. Davis’ application for a conditional use permit, it
must show, by substantial evidence on the record, that the detrimental effects of the use cannot
be substantially mitigated “by the proposal or the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve
compliance with applicable standards.” Utah Code § 10-9a-507(2)(b).

The situation that leaves is this: Because long term rental housing is a conditional use within the
zone, the City must accept and process applications for that conditional use. The City has
legitimately determined that having additional short term rentals would have a detrimental effect
upon the community. The City may therefore impose conditions on short-term rentals to mitigate
that detrimental effect. The City has legitimately determined that a condition to substantially
mitigate that detrimental effect is to not allow any short term rentals beyond the imposed cap.
The City must then show by substantial evidence on the record that no conditions can be
imposed to mitigate the detrimental effect of the proposed use. Only under those circumstances
can the City deny the conditional use permit.


Advisory Opinion – Christine E. Davis./Cottonwood Heights City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 1 2010 – page 6 of 7 pages
The OPRO is aware that this appears to be overly formalistic, and appears to create unnecessary
work for City staff, since it appears that most conditional use applications for short-term rentals
will likely be denied. This arises from the assumption that nothing but termination of an existing
short-term rental permit could ever mitigate the detrimental effects of the use. This may
generally be a safe assumption, but the law and City ordinances require that all conditional use
applications be processed, and that the City show by substantial evidence that no conditions
could be imposed that could mitigate the detrimental effects. Accordingly, where something is
deemed a conditional use, property owners ought to be given the opportunity to propose or agree
to conditions that would mitigate the effects of that use, or propose a way to employ that use that
would comply with the condition. If the use is to be denied, the property owner is entitled to a
record containing substantial evidence to show that no reasonable conditions can be imposed. 4

                                                                 Conclusion
The property owner’s first two questions are challenges to the enactment of the conditional use
ordinance, and are time-barred. The third question, however, concerns the application of the
conditional use statute to the property owner, is not time barred, and is a proper subject for an
Advisory Opinion.

By state law and its own ordinances, the City must accept and process conditional use
applications for short-term rentals. The City has validly limited short-term rentals in the
residential zone because of the detrimental effect. However, the City must show by substantial
evidence on the record that no reasonable conditions can be imposed to mitigate those harmful
effects, before the City can deny the conditional use permit.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




4
  The procedure selected by the City to award an available conditional use permit for a short-term rental, what the
property owner calls a “lottery,” has not happened to Ms. Davis’ application. Accordingly, although the “lottery”
may be suspect, it remains to be seen whether it can be conducted in accordance with the state and local procedures
as discussed. Certainly, this “lottery” system, an attempt by the City to ensure fairness in awarding a permit when
one becomes available, does not excuse the City from its obligation on each application to provide substantial
evidence on the record showing that no reasonable conditions can be imposed to mitigate the harmful effects.
Evidence of a random selection may not be substantial evidence sufficient to support denial of the application.
Nevertheless, since it has not happened, it cannot be determined whether it can or will be done in accordance with
the law. The issue is not ripe for consideration in this Advisory Opinion.
Advisory Opinion – Christine E. Davis./Cottonwood Heights City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 1 2010 – page 7 of 7 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

       Linda W. Dunlavy, City Recorder
       City of Cottonwood Heights
       1265 E. Fort Union Blvd, #250
       PO Box 71024
       Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84047

On this ___________ Day of November, 2010, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
