                     Advisory Opinion #33
                     Parties: Danville Land Investments, LLC and Draper City
                                         Issued: March 12, 2008

                                         TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      E: Entitlement to Application Approval (Vesting)
                      F: Complete Land Use Application
                      K: Compliance with Mandatory Land Use Ordinances
                      L: Review for Application Completeness

According to the Utah Code, an application will be deemed complete if the local
government has not notified the applicant that it is deficient within 30 days of
submission. A complete application is entitled to substantive review, along with
approval if it complies with all applicable laws, ordinances, and standards in place
at the time the application was complete.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                                      State of Utah
                                      Department of Commerce
  JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
                                      OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor



                                                             ADVISORY OPINION

            Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                 Danville Land Investments, LLC
                                                                           by Kevin Anderson, Anderson Call,
                                                                           Counsel for Property Owners

            Local Government Entity:                                       Draper City

            Applicant for the Land Use Approval:                           Danville Land Investments, LLC (Thane Smith)

            Project:                                                       Residential Subdivision

            Date of this Advisory Opinion:                                 March 12, 2008

            Opinion Authored By:                                           Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney,
                                                                           Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                                           Issues
            Is the property owner entitled to preliminary approval of a subdivision application under UTAH
            CODE § 10-9a-509, and does the City’s requirement that the application be modified in order to
            facilitate access to an open space area amount to a compelling, countervailing public interest
            sufficient to justify denial of the application?

                                                      Summary of Advisory Opinion
            By operation of UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509.5, Danville Land Investments, LLC’s preliminary plat
            application is complete. Danville is therefore entitled to substantive review of and a decision
            regarding its Preliminary Plat Application. Moreover, Draper City has not established a
            compelling, countervailing public interest in relocating the road along the extreme westerly
            boundary of the Property and requiring that the road be single loaded. If the road configuration
            complies with the ordinances and standards in place at the time of application, the road must be
            approved as configured by Danville.

                                                                          Review
            A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
            decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of § 13-43-205 of the Utah



160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
Code. The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from Danville Land Investment, LLC
(“Danville”) on November 14, 2007. A letter with the request attached was sent via certified
mail, return receipt requested, to Draper City Recorder Kathy Montoya, at 1020 E. Pioneer Road,
Draper, Utah 84020. The return receipt was delivered and signed on November 20, 2007,
indicating that the City had received it. A response was received from the Draper City Attorney
on December 12, 2007. Sometime afterward, this Advisory Opinion was placed on temporary
hold at the request of Kevin Anderson, attorney for Danville. The Author of this Advisory
Opinion met with Kevin Anderson, on January 30, 2008, and this matter was renewed and
discussed. The author also discussed this matter by telephone with Douglas Ahlstrom, Draper
City Attorney, on February 6, 2008.

                                                                   Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

      1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion dated November 9, 2007 with the Office of the
                  Property Rights Ombudsman by Danville Land Investments, LLC, including exhibits.
      2.          Response letter from Douglas J. Ahlstrom, Draper City Attorney, dated December 12,
                  2007.
                                         Statutes and Ordinances

      1.           Sections 10-9a-509 – 509.5 and 10-9a-603-607 of the Utah Code

                                                                  Background
Danville Land Investments LLC (“Danville”) is the owner of a 144.65 acre parcel located in
Draper City (“Draper”). The parcel located at approximately 12800 South & Galena Park Drive,
west of the Union Pacific Railroad tracks, east of the Jordan River Parkway (the “Property”).
The Property is zoned RA-2.

In June 2006, Danville submitted a Preliminary Plat application for development of the Property.
The development, called the Draper Preserve Subdivision, exceeded the open space and
minimum lot size requirements of the RA-2 zone. The development featured a collector street
called Galena Park Boulevard located along the east edge of the Property with a bridge extending



Advisory Opinion – Danville Land Investments, LLC / Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 12, 2008– page 2 of 11 pages
easterly over the railroad. This preliminary plat application was later withdrawn at the
recommendation of the City.

On September 1, 2006 Danville applied to modify and amend the zoning of the Property from
RA-2 with conditions to RA-2 without conditions. This change would allow the required open
space to be dispersed throughout the Property. The rezone application was approved on January
23, 2007. On September 8, 2006 a concept plan application was submitted to the City, which was
approved with conditions on approximately May 22, 2007. According to the minutes of the
Draper City Council Meeting dated May 15, 2007, in approving the Concept Plan, the Draper
City Council found a compelling, countervailing public interest sufficient to require that the plan
be changed so that the westernmost road on the development be single-loaded. The public
interest reflected in the minutes was to “respect the vital interest the City has in maintaining a
view perspective and improve public access to the Jordan River Parkway.” On June 29, 2007 the
preliminary plat application for the development of the Property as the Draper Preserve was
submitted, and has since been revised. All required fees for the Preliminary Plat application were
timely paid. The preliminary plat application does not show the road as single-loaded.

On July 20, 2007, Thane Smith, on behalf of Danville, sent a letter to Draper City requesting that
the City determine that the Preliminary Plat Application was complete. Margaret Pahl, Senior
Planner, replied on July 23, 2007, indicating that staff has been diligently evaluating the
completeness of the application, and that Draper would respond by August 20. August 20, 2007
was more than thirty days after July 20, 2007, the date of the request. On August 24, 2007, the
attorney for Danville sent a letter to the attorney for Draper City indicating that thirty days had
passed without any indication of completeness from the City, and that therefore under UTAH
CODE § 10-9a-509.5, the application was deemed complete. The City Council has not
substantively reviewed or issued a decision regarding the preliminary plat application.

                                                                  Analysis
A.          The Application is Complete under UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509.5

Draper City argues that Danville’s preliminary plat application remains incomplete. 1 Therefore,
the City has not conducted a substantive review of Danville’s application. Without regard to
whether Danville’s application actually remains deficient in any respect, and without regard to
whether any requirement imposed by Draper City is legal or appropriate, the Application is
deemed complete by operation of UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509.5(1)(d). Danville is entitled to
substantive review of its application.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509.5 states

            (b) After a reasonable period of time to allow the municipality diligently to
            evaluate whether all objective ordinance-based application criteria have been met,
1
 Among the reasons that Draper believes the application to be incomplete is that it does not include an agreement
with Union Pacific regarding a crossing of the railroad right-of-way. Issues regarding the railroad right-of-way are
not examined herein, but are examined in a separate Advisory Opinion to be issued by the OPRO.


Advisory Opinion – Danville Land Investments, LLC / Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 12, 2008– page 3 of 11 pages
            if application fees have been paid, the applicant may in writing request that the
            municipality provide a written determination either that the application is:
                    (i) complete for the purposes of allowing subsequent, substantive land use
                    authority review;
                    ....
            (c) Within 30 days of receipt of an applicant's request under this section, the
            municipality shall either:
                    (i) mail a written notice to the applicant advising that the application is
                    deficient . . .; or
                    (ii) accept the application as complete for the purposes of further
                    substantive processing by the land use authority.
            (d) If the notice required by Subsection (1)(c)(i) is not timely mailed, the
            application shall be considered complete, for purposes of further substantive land
            use authority review.

Danville submitted its Preliminary Plat application on June 29, 2007. Twenty-one days following
that submission, Danville in writing requested a determination of application completeness. 2
This request in writing started the clock on a thirty-day time limit under UTAH CODE § 10-9a-
509.5, 3 during which the City could either notify the property owner that the application was
complete, or provide the specific respects in which the application was deficient.4 Draper did
not provide Danville with such notification.

The statute is clear and includes no provision for discretion on the part of the City: “If the notice
required by Subsection (1)(c)(i) is not timely mailed, the application shall be considered
complete, for purposes of further substantive land use authority review.” Because the City did
not notify Danville in writing that the Application was deficient, the application is deemed
complete. Danville is now entitled to substantive review of its preliminary plat application,
which the City must perform “with reasonable diligence.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509.5(2)(a). 5


2
  This letter has not been provided to the OPRO. However, it is referenced in other documents.
3
  This section became effective on April 30, 2007. Although was then a new law, it was nevertheless fully effective.
4
  Utah Code § 10-9a-509.5 requires that such letter be submitted only after a reasonable time has passed. This
Advisory Opinion expresses no opinion regarding whether 21 days is a “reasonable time” under the statute. Neither
party has questioned whether the 21 days that elapsed between application and the demand letter was a reasonable
time. More importantly, the City responded to Danville’s demand letter, and acknowledged that it would provide a
response regarding application completeness within thirty days of the demand letter. This indicates that the City
considered that a reasonable time had passed after the application was submitted.
5
  It should be noted that deeming an application complete under Utah Code § 10-9a-509.5 does not effect a waiver
of any properly and legally imposed conditions or requirements. Section 10-9a-509.5(3) states that “Subject to
Section 10-9a-509, nothing in this section and no action or inaction of the land use authority relieves an applicant's
duty to comply with all applicable substantive ordinances and regulations.” Therefore, if the City’s ordinances or
regulations have imposed a legal requirement on a subdivision, and the application is deemed complete by operation
of § 10-9a-509.5 despite that requirement not being met, the completeness of the application by operation of § 10-
9a-509.5 is not a waiver of that requirement. The completeness of the application entitles the applicant to substantive
review of the application. Properly imposed requirements, if any, can still be considered during the substantive
review.


Advisory Opinion – Danville Land Investments, LLC / Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 12, 2008– page 4 of 11 pages
B.          The Location of the Road is Not A Compelling, Countervailing Public Interest Sufficient
            to Deny the Preliminary Plat Application

At the May 15, 2007 meeting of the Draper City Council, the Council’s approval of the concept
plan included a requirement that the westernmost road in the development, shown on the
developer’s preliminary plan as a residential road with lots aligning both sides, be a single-
loaded road, with no development on the west side of the road. This requirement arises because
the Jordan River Parkway borders the development Property on the west. The City Council
found that there was a compelling countervailing public interest in access to and a view of the
Parkway open space. 6 Danville argues that no compelling countervailing public interest exists
sufficient to allow Draper to deny their land use application for non-compliance with this
requirement, and that the City does not have a right to dictate the alignment and configuration of
the road in this way.

In Utah, a land use applicant is entitled to approval of a complete land use application if the
application conforms to the requirements of the municipality's land use maps, zoning map, and
applicable land use ordinance in effect. 7 UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509. This rule, sometimes known
as the “early vesting rule,” was adopted in Utah in 1980 in the case of Western Land Equities,
Inc. v. City of Logan, 617 P.2d 388, 396 (Utah 1980), and later codified at UTAH CODE § 10-9a-
509(1)(a)(i). The intent of the rule is to provide some reliability and predictability in land use
regulation:

            It is intended to strike a reasonable balance between important, conflicting public
            and private interests in the area of land development. A property owner should be
            able to plan for developing his property in a manner permitted by existing zoning
            regulations with some degree of assurance that the basic ground rules will not be
            changed in midstream.

Western Land Equities, Inc. v. City of Logan, 617 P.2d 388, 396 (Utah 1980).

This rule dictates how a municipality can control the land use activities within its boundaries. If
restrictions or guidelines on development are desired, the municipality must adopt ordinances to
do so. Once enacted, those ordinances must be followed by land use applicants. Yet applicants
also have an appropriate expectation that their application will not be denied midway through the
process by unstated requirements. Development of property is a difficult and costly process, and
the rule prevents a community from unfairly denying a compliant land use application after
significant funds are spent. “The economic waste that occurs when a project is halted after


6
  The Minutes of the Council Meeting read as follows: “Council member Colbert moved to amend that in the area
presently lot 83 south to Corner Canyon Creek needs to be a single loaded road to respect the vital interest the City
has in maintaining a view perspective and improve public access to the Jordan River Parkway. With the addition of a
finding that there is a compelling countervailing interesting the behalf of the City and that is the second most
valuable open space in the City.”
7
  Exceptions to this rule exist. One is relevant to this Advisory Opinion, and will be discussed below.


Advisory Opinion – Danville Land Investments, LLC / Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 12, 2008– page 5 of 11 pages
substantial costs have been incurred in its commencement is of no benefit either to the public or
to landowners.” Id.

One exception to this rule states that even if an application is complete and complies with all
applicable laws and ordinances, a municipality may nevertheless deny it if a “compelling,
countervailing public interest would be jeopardized” by approval of the application. See UTAH
CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(i). The term “compelling, countervailing public interest” is not defined
in the Utah Code, nor has the exception been examined in recent case law. In the land use
context, the phrase arose in the Western Land Equities case. In Western Land Equities, the court
explained that this exception provides a safe harbor where communities can deny an application
when important public interests come to light for the first time that have not been previously
included in the community’s ordinances:

            a rule which vests a right unconditionally at the time application for a permit is
            made affords no protection for important public interests that may legitimately
            require interference with planned private development. If a proposal met zoning
            requirements at the time of application but seriously threatens public health,
            safety, or welfare, the interests of the public should not be thwarted.

Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 395-6. The Court then expounds on the concept of the
compelling, countervailing public interest:

            A city should not be unduly restricted in effectuating legitimate policy changes
            when they are grounded in recognized legislative police powers. There may be
            instances when an application would for the first time draw attention to a serious
            problem that calls for an immediate amendment to a zoning ordinance, and such
            an amendment would be entitled to valid retroactive effect.

Id. at 396.

Accordingly, a “compelling, countervailing public interest” inquiry requires a determination that
the application raises an issue that “seriously threatens public health, safety, or welfare” to the
point where it “calls for an immediate amendment to a zoning ordinance.” Id. Moreover,
“because zoning ordinances are in derogation of a property owner's common-law right to
unrestricted use of his or her property, provisions therein restricting property uses should be
strictly construed, and provisions permitting property uses should be liberally construed in favor
of the property owner.” Patterson v. Utah County Bd. of Adjustment, 893 P.2d 602, 606 (Utah Ct.
App. 1995).

Factors that may bear upon whether a public interest is compelling and countervailing include
the legitimacy of the public interest itself, how the application impacts that interest, and the
means by which the City proposes to protect those interests. In Western Land Equities, the City
raised fire protection concerns as justification for denial of a land use application. However, this
public interest was held to not be a compelling countervailing public interest sufficient to deny


Advisory Opinion – Danville Land Investments, LLC / Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 12, 2008– page 6 of 11 pages
the application because an unarguably permitted use would not have yielded a different result.
Also, inadequate sidewalks were held to not be a compelling countervailing public interest
because the sidewalk problem could be addressed through other means without denying the
application. See id.

Preserving access of the public to open space areas is a legitimate public interest. Preserving the
view perspective of open space areas may also be a legitimate public interest. No reasons are
apparent that would prevent a municipality from enacting ordinances to protect and enhance
those interests. However, there is no indication that access to the Jordan River Parkway open
space is presently inconvenient or difficult. A single-loaded road may increase the convenience
of access to the park, but since access to the Jordan River Parkway already appears to be easy
and convenient from other avenues, it cannot be said that double-loading the road endangers
access to the open space to the point that it “seriously threatens public health, safety, or welfare.”
Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 395-6 (emphasis added). The City’s desire to single-load the
road appears to be a decision of convenience or enhancement. If the City requires that the access
to the Jordan River Parkway be improved, less burdensome means by which that may be
accomplished certainly exist, short of causing the developer to redesign its plan and possibly lose
the economic benefit of several otherwise-compliant lots.

With regard to the City’s stated compelling interest in “maintaining the view perspective” into
the open space, it is unclear how single-loading the road will accomplish that interest. A single-
loaded road along an open space will obstruct a view of the open space to essentially the same
degree as a double-loaded road along the open space to all members of the public except users of
that road. It is unclear how a slightly more obstructed view of open space seriously threatens
public health, safety or welfare to the point that immediate amendment of the zoning ordinance is
necessary.

Moreover, Western Land Equities states that a compelling countervailing public interest is one
where the application brings attention to the problem for the first time: “an application would for
the first time draw attention to a serious problem that calls for an immediate amendment to a
zoning ordinance.” Id. Where a problem that seriously threatens the public health, safety, or
welfare is well-known before the application is submitted, then the City should pass an ordinance
to address it. 8 The developer would therefore be bound to follow that ordinance in his
application. In this case, the Jordan River Parkway has existed for many years, along with the
public’s interest in access to and a view of the Parkway. These interests cannot be said to have
arisen for the first time as a result of Danville’s land use application.




8
   Utah Code § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(ii) further supports this reasoning. This subsection provides an exception to the
vesting rule where “the municipality has formally initiated proceedings to amend its ordinances in a manner that
would prohibit approval of the application as submitted.” This statue reflects an understanding that issues requiring
changes of zoning ordinances occasionally arise, but amending zoning ordinances takes time. When a compelling
interest arises, a municipality only needs to initiate proceedings to amend that ordinance, and applications received
will be subject thereto.


Advisory Opinion – Danville Land Investments, LLC / Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 12, 2008– page 7 of 11 pages
The City may demand that Danville comply with existing ordinances and officially adopted
standards. To the extent that those ordinances and standards permit the City to dictate the
location, configuration, and construction of roads within the development, the City may so
dictate. Conversely, the early vesting rule in UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(a), 9 the prohibition
against unexpressed requirements in UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(e), 10 and the principle that
“provisions permitting property uses should be liberally construed in favor of the property
owner,” indicate that the property owner has great discretion in designing the development, as
long as the development complies with City ordinances and regulations. Because no compelling
countervailing public interest exists in access to or a view of the open space sufficient to require
single-loading the road, the City cannot deny the application on that basis.

C.          The Question Regarding Whether Danville is Entitled to Approval of its Application is
            Not Ripe

In its Request for Advisory Opinion, Danville has asked that the OPRO determine whether
Danville is entitled to approval of its Preliminary Plat Application because the land use
application conforms with the requirements of Draper’s land use maps, zoning map, and
applicable land use ordinance in effect. The City of Draper has not substantively reviewed nor
issued any decision regarding the application. Because of this, the OPRO cannot make a
determination that the application is entitled to approval because the question is not ripe.

A determination that a land use application conforms with the requirements of Draper’s land use
maps, zoning map, and applicable land use ordinance would require that the OPRO exercise
discretion regarding the interpretation of Draper’s ordinances. That discretion belongs to the
City. Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98, ¶28, 104 P.3d 1208, 1216.

A better course would be to permit the City to apply its expertise and discretion to the
substantive examination of the application. The application could be approved, making further
examination unnecessary. In the event the application is denied, the City is obligated to indicate
the reasons for denial of the application. § 10-9a-509.5(2)(d). The OPRO could then use its
authority to examine the propriety or legality of the denial.11 Until the City has had an
opportunity to rule on the matter, the determination is premature.




9
  “An applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the application conforms to the requirements of the
municipality's land use maps, zoning map, and applicable land use ordinance in effect when a complete application
is submitted and all fees have been paid . . .” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(a).
10
   “A municipality may not impose on a holder of an issued land use permit a requirement that is not expressed: (i)
in the land use permit or in documents on which the land use permit is based; or (ii) in this chapter or the
municipality's ordinances.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(e).
11
   This is not to say that where denial appears inevitable, the OPRO must wait until the denial is actually issued in
order to examine the question. Rather it is to say that the OPRO should and can examine specific reasons for denial,
rather than examining applications and ordinances de novo and dictating to the land use authority how it is to rule.


Advisory Opinion – Danville Land Investments, LLC / Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 12, 2008– page 8 of 11 pages
                                                                  Conclusion
Danville is entitled to substantive review of and a decision regarding its Preliminary Plat
Application, because under UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509.5, the preliminary plat application is
complete. Draper must perform substantive review of Danville’s preliminary plat application
with reasonable diligence. In addition, no compelling, countervailing public interest exists in
access and view of the Jordan River Parkway. Therefore, Draper may not deny Danville’s
otherwise compliance preliminary plat application because the road along the extreme westerly
boundary of the development Property is double-loaded.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Danville Land Investments, LLC / Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 12, 2008– page 9 of 11 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in UTAH CODE § 13-43-205. It does not constitute
legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of
Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.




Advisory Opinion – Danville Land Investments, LLC / Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 12, 2008– page 10 of 11 pages
                                                      MAILING CERTIFICATE

U.C.A. §13-43-206(10)(b) requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to the government
entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with U.C.A. §63-30d-401 (Notices Filed
Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                        Kathy Montoya
                        City Recorder
                        1020 E Pioneer Road
                        Draper, UT 84020

On this ___________ Day of March, 2008, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                                                ______________________________________________________
                                                Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Danville Land Investments, LLC / Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 12, 2008– page 11 of 11 pages
