                     Advisory Opinion #62
                   Parties: Alliance Youth Services and City of Pleasant Grove
                                        Issued: February 11, 2009

                                          TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      E: Entitlement to Application Approval (Vesting)
                      J: Compliance with Mandatory Land Use Ordinances
                      R(v): Other Topics (Interpretation of Ordinances)
                      R(viii): Other Topics (Appealing Land Use Decisions)

An appeal authority has inherent power to fashion a remedy, including the power
to remand a decision for new consideration. The City correctly interpreted its
ordinance as prohibiting the youth home at the proposed location, because the
plain meaning of the word “temporary” means limited in time or not permanent.
The mere purchase of property is not sufficient reliance to invoke the doctrine of
zoning estoppel.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
       Governor
                            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 GARY R. HERBERT
 Lieutenant Governor


                                             ADVISORY OPINION
                       Denial of Conditional Use Permit for Residential Treatment Facility


       Advisory Opinion Requested by:                  Alliance Youth Services

       Local Government Entity:                        Pleasant Grove City

       Applicant for the Land Use Approval:            Alliance Youth Services

       Project:                                        Residential Treatment Facility for Youth

       Date of this Advisory Opinion:                  February 11, 2009

       Opinion Authored By:                            Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney, Office of the Property
                                                       Rights Ombudsman



                                                       Issues
       I.        Did the Pleasant Grove Planning Commission rely upon substantial evidence that would
                 permit them to deny an application for a conditional use permit, as required by § 10-9a-
                 507 of the Utah Code?

       II.       May an appeal authority remand a matter back to a land use authority for
                 reconsideration?

       III.      If a matter is remanded, may the land use authority conduct a new public hearing and
                 take new evidence?

       IV.       Is the Applicant entitled to a conditional use permit?

       V.        Has the Applicant exhausted its administrative remedies so that it can proceed to an
                 appeal in district court?

       VI.       Is the City’s interpretation of its Supplemental Development Standards correct?

       VII.      Is the City estopped from enforcing the Supplemental Development Standards?
                                                  Summary of Advisory Opinion

I.          Did the Pleasant Grove Planning Commission rely upon substantial evidence that
            would permit them to deny an application for a conditional use permit, as required
            by § 10-9a-507 of the Utah Code?

The City’s Board of Adjustment has already determined that the Planning Commission erred.
The City concedes the error. Therefore, there is no need for further analysis in this Opinion.

II.         May an appeal authority remand a matter back to a land use authority for
            reconsideration?

An appeal authority has discretion to remand a matter back to a land use authority, particularly
when the land use authority did not properly consider all evidence or there was a procedural
error. An appeal authority’s quasi-judicial authority to hear and decide appeals necessarily
includes the power to fashion a remedy. That power inherently includes discretion to remand a
matter to a land use authority for further consideration.

III.        If a matter is remanded, may the land use authority conduct a new public hearing
            and take new evidence?

Since any decision by a land use authority (or an appeal authority) must be made after a public
hearing, the City’s Planning Commission must conduct a new public hearing and may consider
new evidence. In this matter, the Board of Adjustment found that the Commission erred because
it did not properly address all required standards for a conditional use permit. In order to correct
that error, the Planning Commission must consider new evidence. The Applicant will not be
unduly prejudiced by this action, because it will also be able to present evidence and argument.

IV.         Is the Applicant entitled to a conditional use permit?

Because the Planning Commission has not fully considered all evidence, it would be
inappropriate for the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman to express an opinion on whether
the Applicant is entitled to a conditional use permit.

V.          Has the Applicant exhausted its administrative remedies so that it can proceed to an
            appeal in district court?

Full consideration of a land use application may require more than one hearing. The Board of
Adjustment held that the Planning Commission did not properly consider the conditional use
application, and has remanded the matter back for further consideration. The Applicant’s
administrative remedies are therefore not yet exhausted.

VI.         Is the City’s interpretation of its Supplemental Development Standards correct?

The City’s interpretation of § 10-15-35 of its code is supported by the plain language of the
ordinance and its intent, as expressed in the entirety of its language. The word “temporary”

Advisory Opinion – Alliance/Pleasant Grove City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2009 – page 2 of 16 pages
means lasting for a limited time, and the relevant clause of the ordinance indicates the City’s
intent to impose regulation on treatment centers and rehabilitation facilities. Moreover, local
governments are afforded a level of deference when interpreting their own ordinances.
Therefore, the City’s interpretation is reasonable and supportable.

VII. Is the City estopped from enforcing the Supplemental Development Standards?
The Applicant has not established that the City had an affirmative duty to inform them of any
provision of its ordinances. All property is subject to zoning, whether a property owner is aware
of a regulation or not. Furthermore, the Applicant has not incurred the level of extensive
obligations or expenses necessary to invoke zoning estoppel against the City.


                                                  Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-
205. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Alliance Youth Services on October 27,
2008. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Amanda R. Fraughton, City Recorder
for Pleasant Grove. The City received the request on October 30, 2008. The City submitted a
response to the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, which was received on December 8,
2008. A reply was submitted by Alliance, which was received on December 22, 2008.



                                                  Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

      1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, including attachments, filed October 27, 2008 with
                  the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman by Gregory Simonsen, representing
                  Alliance Youth Services.
      2.          Response from Pleasant Grove City, submitted by David L. Church, received on
                  December 8, 2008, with attachments.
      3.          Reply submitted by Gregory Simonsen, received December 22, 2008.
      4.          Sections 10-9a-507 and 10-9a-701 through -708 of the Utah Code.


Advisory Opinion – Alliance/Pleasant Grove City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2009 – page 3 of 16 pages
      5.          Sections 2-4-1 through -7, Section 10-2-4, and Section 10-15-35 of the Pleasant
                  Grove City Code.


                                                  Background
In the first part of 2008, Alliance Youth Services (“Alliance”) began seeking a location in
Pleasant Grove for a Residential Treatment Facility for teenaged boys with drug, alcohol, or
sexual addiction issues. Most of the young men being treated would live at the facility for 12 to
18 months, while they completed therapy and training. Alliance operates a similar facility in
American Fork. Alliance ultimately selected a site located at 560 South 300 East. 1 The property
is zoned commercial (C-S), but there are residences in the area. There are residences on two
sides of the parcel, with commercial properties to the rear. The parcel is located near State
Street, the main artery through Pleasant Grove, although it does not have frontage on that
highway. There is a home on the parcel.

In order to gain approval for the proposed Facility, Alliance petitioned to amend the City’s
zoning ordinance to add “Behavior, drug, and alcohol treatment centers” as a conditional use in
C-S zones. Alliance explained to the City that they were seeking the amendment so that they
could apply for approval to construct a treatment center. 2 The Pleasant Grove Planning
Commission recommended approval, and the City Council approved the amendment on July 1,
2008. 3 At the two public hearings conducted on the proposed amendment, only one citizen
spoke, and he was in favor of the change.

Alliance applied for conditional use approval shortly after the zoning amendment was approved.
The proposed Facility would treat up to 18 young men for sex addiction or improper sexual
conduct. 4 On August 14, 2008, the Planning Commission conducted a public hearing on the
proposed conditional use. City staff recommended approval, with proposed conditions. Alliance
generally agreed with the conditions, although they suggested changes. 5 A large number of
citizens attended the hearing, and most opposed the facility. The neighbors expressed concerns
about safety, decline in property values, and the size of the facility. Several citizens commented




1
  It is not clear when Alliance actually purchased the property. The City believes that Alliance closed on the parcel
on August 15, 2008, a day after the City’s Planning Commission considered the conditional use permit application.
2
  It appears that Alliance had not decided on the type of treatment center at that point. The minutes of the June 12,
2008 Planning Commission meeting state that Alliance identified the property as the site they had chosen for the
treatment center, but that specific plans for the nature of the center had not been determined.
3
  At the City Council meeting, Alliance again indicated that it had chosen the site for its parcel, although the City’s
staff had recommended other commercial zones.
4
  Alliance proposed using the existing home on the parcel while a new building was constructed. During this phase,
the treatment facility would operate at less than full capacity. The City indicated that Alliance would be subject to
additional conditional use approval when the new building was designed and built.
5
  The Alliance staff stated that residents would be supervised at all times; that alarms would be installed on all doors
and windows; there would be a 1:3 staff to resident ratio; and that the facility would comply with all state
regulations. Alliance also agreed to install an 8 foot high masonry wall in the rear yard of the property.

Advisory Opinion – Alliance/Pleasant Grove City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2009 – page 4 of 16 pages
that the Facility would mark an irrevocable transition from a residential neighborhood to a
commercial area. 6

After receiving public comments, the Planning Commission discussed the Facility’s impact.
Ultimately, they felt that concerns for neighborhood safety justified denying the conditional use
application, because the welfare of the community would be compromised, regardless of any
measures to enhance the security of the facility. The Commission voted unanimously to deny the
application.

Alliance appealed that decision to the City’s Board of Adjustment, arguing that the Planning
Commission did not find that there were any reasonably foreseeable detrimental impacts that
could not be adequately mitigated. The Utah Code requires such a finding before a conditional
use application may be denied. Instead, Alliance contended, the Planning Commission based its
decision on public opposition, and unfounded fears about the Facility. In its analysis, Pleasant
Grove’s City Staff recommended that the Board overturn the Planning Commission’s decision,
and grant the conditional use permit. 7

The Board of Adjustment conducted a public hearing on September 18, 2008, and like the
Planning Commission hearing, it was attended by a large group of citizens. The Board took
comments from the citizens for over three hours. The citizen’s comments continued along the
same lines as those heard by the Planning Commission; i.e., that the Facility was not appropriate
for the area, and that the clientele would pose a danger to the neighbors. Alliance’s
representatives also attended the meeting, and presented arguments that the conditional use
application should have been granted.

The Board of Adjustment decided to remand the matter back to the Planning Commission. In its
motion, the Board stated that “the Planning Commission [made] an error in their August 14,
2008 meeting in denying the request for a conditional use permit . . . .” The Board also directed
the Planning Commission to “address each of the standards from the City Code section 10-2-4B
on granting a conditional use permit.”

Following the Board of Adjustment’s decision, Alliance proposed that the Board reconsider the
motion to remand, because the Board did not have authority to remand a matter, only to affirm,
deny, or modify a decision. This proposal was considered by the City, but rejected. The City
also informed Alliance that its application was in question because of the language of Section 10-
15-35 of the City Code, which the City states would prevent Alliance from operating its Facility. 8
The City indicated that it planned to invoke that section to block Alliance’s application. Alliance
states that it is not a “service organization,” and that the ordinance would therefore not apply to
its Facility.



6
  Some residents stated that they did not know that the area was already zoned commercial.
7
  City Staff stated that the Planning Commission had not followed the “process to evaluate curative [i.e., mitigating]
measures.” The Staff also proposed some conditions for the Facility.
8
  Section 10-15-35 of the Pleasant Grove City Code governs service organizations that provide temporary housing as
part of a rehabilitation program. The ordinance prevents such activity within 400 feet of a residential zone.

Advisory Opinion – Alliance/Pleasant Grove City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2009 – page 5 of 16 pages
Alliance objects to the Board’s decision to remand the matter back to the Planning Commission,
arguing that a board of adjustment does not possess the authority to remand a matter. Alliance
argues that the Board should have approved the conditional use permit.



                                                  Analysis
I.          The Board of Adjustment may Remand the Matter to the Planning Commission.

The City’s Board of Adjustment has authority to remand Alliance’s conditional use permit
application back to the Planning Commission for further consideration. Remand by a board of
adjustment is consistent with its role as a quasi-judicial body, and is also consistent with the
statutes that govern appeal authorities. The Utah Code requires municipalities to establish some
type of an appeal authority, which has traditionally been a board of adjustment. 9 Appeal
authorities are authorized to hear and decide “appeals from decisions applying . . . land use
ordinances.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-701(1)(b). 10 The Pleasant Grove City Code specifically
authorizes its Board of Adjustment to hear and decide appeals from decisions of the Planning
Commission to grant or deny conditional use permits. PLEASANT GROVE CITY CODE, § 2-4-4(C).

An appeal authority, such as a board of adjustment, is a “quasi-judicial” body, UTAH CODE ANN.
§ 10-9a-701(3)(a)(i), with limited authority to consider appeals from land use decisions.
“[B]oards of adjustment have no legislative powers and are not permitted to have those powers.”
Harmon City, Inc. v. Draper City, 2000 UT App. 31, ¶ 16, 997 P.2d 321, 326. Furthermore, “the
powers of zoning and rezoning cannot be delegated to a quasi-judicial body such as a board of
adjustment.” Sandy City v. Salt Lake County, 827 P.2d 212, 221 (Utah 1992). 11

The Pleasant Grove City Code delineates the authority of the City’s Board of Adjustment:

            In exercising its powers, the board of adjustment may reverse or affirm, wholly or
            partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination as ought
            to be made, and to that end shall have all of the powers of the officer from whom
            the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of three (3) members of the board shall
            be necessary to reverse any order, requirement or determination of any such
            administrative official, or to decide in favor of the appellant on any matter upon
            which it is required to pass under any such ordinance, or affect any variation from
            such ordinance.



9
   Until 2005, local governments were required to establish boards of adjustment. In that year, however, the Utah
Legislature amended the Land Use, Development, and Management Act to authorize other types of “appeal
authorities,” which may include hearing officers or other panels authorized to hear and decide appeals.
10
    See also UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-701 (applicable to counties). Appeal authorities are also specifically
authorized to hear variance requests.
11
   See also Salt Lake County Cottonwood Sanitary Dist. v. Sandy City, 879 P.2d 1379, 1383 (Utah Ct. App. 1994)
(examining differences between legislative and quasi-judicial powers).

Advisory Opinion – Alliance/Pleasant Grove City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2009 – page 6 of 16 pages
PLEASANT GROVE CITY CODE, § 2-4-6(H). This is consistent with the language of the Utah Code
which authorizes appeal authorities: “The appeal authority shall determine the correctness of a
decision of the land use authority in its interpretation and application of a land use ordinance.”
UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-707(3). Thus, the Board of Adjustment may review whether the
decision of the Planning Commission correctly interpreted and applied a land use ordinance. 12 It
may modify an order or requirement imposed by a decision of the Planning Commission,
provided substantial evidence justifies the modification. 13

The authority to determine the correctness of a decision includes not only the ability to decide if
a decision is supported by substantial evidence, but also the ability to determine whether the
correct process was used to arrive at that decision. A decision is procedurally incorrect if the
land use authority did not consider evidence it was obligated to consider, if it did not address all
questions mandated by an ordinance, or if it did not adhere to required procedure. 14 However, a
decision by the Board of Adjustment that proper procedure was not followed does not necessarily
mean that the outcome would be different if the process had been carried out properly.
Correction of the procedural error is often necessary to determine whether a decision was proper.
Often the appropriate correction of a procedural error can only be achieved by remanding the
matter. 15 Therefore, in order to fully carry out its quasi-judicial function, the Board of
Adjustment must necessarily possess the discretion to remand a decision back to the Planning
Commission. 16

The authority to remand a matter is not expressly stated in the Utah Code or in the City’s
ordinance. However, the authority to remand is consistent with the language of both the Utah
Code and the Pleasant Grove City ordinance. 17 The Utah Code states that the appeal authority
shall “act in a quasi-judicial manner.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-701(3)(a)(i). The City’s
ordinances state that the Board of Adjustment “may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination as ought to be made.” PLEASANT GROVE CITY CODE, § 2-4-6(H). The power to
modify an order “as ought to be made” provides the Board of Adjustment with wide latitude of
judgment, and may appropriately be exercised to correct legal errors or to relieve inequitable
burdens of a decision based on the land use authority’s proper consideration of the evidence. A

12
   Note that this limitation does not apply to a variance application, a unique provision allowing an appeal authority
to vary certain provisions of a zoning ordinance when circumstances warrant. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-702. A
variance is not an appeal from a particular decision by a land use authority, but is rather a request for relief from
generally applicable provisions of a zoning ordinance, so there is no call to review a decision for “correctness.”
13
   Bradley v. Payson City, 2003UT 16, ¶ 15, 70 P.3d 47, 52 (“Substantial evidence” test applies to administrative and
quasi-judicial land use decisions).
14
   For example, it is within an appeal authority’s authority to determine that a land use authority did not conduct a
public hearing or give proper notice on an issue.
15
   For example, remand of a procedural error is sometimes necessary to correct a due process error, or provide the
appeal authority with a complete and proper record for review.
16
   See e.g., Osterhues v. Board of Adjustment, Washburn County, 2004 WI App 101, ¶ 12, 680 N.W.2d 823, 827. (A
board of adjustment’s authority to hear and decide appeals “is meaningless without the corresponding authority to
fashion a remedy . . .”).
17
   A local government possesses “a reasonable latitude of judgment and discretion” in the exercise of its powers, and
may take measures designed to carry out the authority conferred by a state statute. See State v. Hutchinson, 624 P.2d
1116, 1124 (Utah 1980). This power extends discretion to a board of adjustment to choose and carry out the best
remedy for an improper action by a land use authority, including remand.

Advisory Opinion – Alliance/Pleasant Grove City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2009 – page 7 of 16 pages
determination to remand a decision back to a land use authority for further consideration is
within the reasonable latitude of judgment and discretion afforded to the appeal authority. 18

Pointing to language in the Utah Code stating that an appeal authority shall “serve as the final
arbiter” of issues involving land use ordinances, Alliance argues that this language prohibits a
remand from an appeal authority. 19 This language does not impose such a restriction. This
language merely states that an appeal authority is highest level of administrative appeal, and that
a local government may not impose additional review.20 The statute does not preclude an appeal
authority from remanding a matter back to a land use authority. 21 Additionally, remand does not
mean that an appeal authority is relinquishing its responsibility to be the final arbiter. An appeal
may still be taken, after reconsideration by the land use authority. Finally, the interests of
judicial economy and timely resolution of land use disputes is better served by allowing remand
in appropriate situations. 22

The Pleasant Grove Board of Adjustment determined that the Planning Commission did not
sufficiently address the standards for a conditional use permit that are found in the City’s
ordinances. 23 The Board expressed this in two motions: The first stated that the Planning
Commission committed an error; and the second identified the error as procedural, the failure to
address the conditional use standards. As has already been discussed, the Board has the
discretion to remand a matter back to the Planning Commission, particularly to correct
procedural errors. Since the Board determined that the Planning Commission did not adequately
address all of the standards for a conditional use permit, the decision to remand was within its
discretion, and was an acceptable means to correct the error. 24




18
   Section 10-9a-707(2) of the Utah Code, which provides that an appeal authority may consider matter de novo if a
municipality fails to state a standard of review for factual matters, should not be read as preventing the appeal
authority from determining that remand is the appropriate remedy. That provision requires de novo review only in
cases where no standard of review is stated in a factual matter. It does not mandate de novo review rather than
remand in cases of procedural errors.
19
   UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-701(3)(a)(ii).
20
   Scherbel v. Salt Lake City, 758 P.2d 897, 899 (Utah 1988) (Final administrative appeal authority vests in a board
of adjustment, under previous, but essentially identical, statutory language).
21
   This Opinion recognizes the need for timely final decisions by an appeal authority. Remands and rehearings are
acceptable options for appeal authorities that should be used wisely when warranted, and should not be used as a
means to avoid a decision on a controversial matter.
22
   In general, a remand would consume less time and expense than an appeal to a district court. In addition, remand
may encourage applicants and local governments to resolve differences in an amicable manner.
23
   Alliance raised the issue that the Planning Commission’s decision to deny the conditional use permit was not
based on substantial evidence, as required by the Utah Code and the City’s ordinances. The City does not dispute
the Board of Adjustment’s determination that the Planning Commission acted incorrectly. Since there is no dispute
on this question, further analysis in this Opinion is unnecessary.
24
   This conclusion also dictates the answer for another question posed by Alliance: Because the order to remand the
matter back to the Planning Commission has been found to be appropriate, Alliance is still in the process of
exhausting its administrative remedies. After a rehearing by the Planning Commission, an appeal may be taken to
the Board of Adjustment. Following a final determination by the Board, the matter may then be appealed to district
court.

Advisory Opinion – Alliance/Pleasant Grove City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2009 – page 8 of 16 pages
II.         The Planning Commission Should Reconvene a Public Hearing on the Conditional
            Use Permit.

In order to comply with the Board’s order, the Planning Commission must conduct another
public hearing on the conditional use permit. Since the Board determined that the Commission
did not fully consider all the evidence that it was obligated to, the only way to correct the error is
to consider all of the evidence, and issue a decision based on that consideration. This may only
be done at a public hearing where all concerned parties may submit evidence and make
arguments.

Alliance objects to a second public hearing as unfair, because “the opponents of the conditional
use permit have been educated as to the type of evidence that the Planning Commission needs to
hear in order to able to deny” the permit. Applicants are entitled to a decision based on a fair
consideration of all relevant evidence and the correct application of laws and ordinances
governing the application. Even if another public hearing gives opponents the opportunity to
gather more information to argue against an application, the applicant has the same opportunity
to gather supporting evidence and arguments. To conclude, a second public hearing before the
Planning Commission is required and is not inherently unfair. 25

III.        The Proposed Facility is Subject to the Supplemental Development Standards found
            in § 10-15-35 of the City Code.

Like any other land use, Alliance’s proposed facility is subject to the City’s zoning regulations,
including the regulations found in § 10-15-35 of the City Code. The City’s interpretation and
application of the ordinance is reasonable, and the City is not estopped from enforcing it.

Section 10-15-35, “Service Organizations,” regulates the design and location of facilities
providing “temporary housing or substance to those in need; or temporary board or room for
youth or adults in a rehabilitation status.” Along with regulations governing parking, lighting,
and noise restrictions, the ordinance requires that facilities must be at least 400 feet from a
residential zone, and bordered on all three sides by commercial zones. PLEASANT GROVE CITY
CODE, § 10-15-35(F). This restriction prohibits Alliance’s Facility, because the property is too
close to a residential zone.

             A. Standards of Statutory Interpretation

Statutory interpretation begins with the plain language of the ordinance, and to “give effect to the
plain language unless the language is ambiguous.” Lovendahl v. Jordan School Dist., 2002 UT
130, ¶ 21, 63 P.3d 705, 710; see also Mountain Ranch Estates v. Utah State Tax Comm’n, 2004
UT 86, ¶ 9, 100 P.3d 1206, 1208. The “primary goal . . . is to give effect to the legislative intent,
as evidenced by the plain language, in light of the purpose the statute was meant to achieve.”
Foutz v. City of South Jordan, 2004 UT 75 ¶ 11, 100 P.3d 1171, 1174. Statutes should be
construed so that "all parts thereof [are] relevant and meaningful." Perrine v. Kennecott Mining

25
  It should be noted that Alliance’s proposal that the Board of Adjustment reconsider its decision would require that
the Board of Adjustment hold a public hearing in which all parties would be allowed an opportunity to present
evidence and make arguments.

Advisory Opinion – Alliance/Pleasant Grove City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2009 – page 9 of 16 pages
Corp., 911 P.2d 1290, 1292 (Utah 1996). Furthermore, it must be presumed “that each term
included in the ordinance was used advisedly.” Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98, ¶30,
104 P.3d 1208, 1216.

The expertise of local zoning authorities bestows a degree of validity upon their interpretation
and application of ordinances:

            Due to the complexities of factors involved in the matter of zoning, as in other
            fields, where courts review the actions of administrative bodies, it should be
            assumed that those charged with that responsibility . . . have specialized
            knowledge in that field. Accordingly, they should be allowed a comparatively
            wide latitude of discretion; and their actions endowed with a presumption of
            correctness and validity . . . .

Cottonwood Heights Citizens Ass’n v. Board of Commissioners, 593 P.2d 138, 140 (Utah 1979).
The Utah Supreme Court refined this rule and held that zoning agencies are allowed broad
discretion in policy and factual decisions, but when a local government interprets the terms of its
zoning ordinance, “a better approach is [to] . . . review [the] interpretation of ordinances for
correctness, but . . . afford some level of non-binding deference to the interpretation advanced by
the local agency.” Carrier, 2004 UT 98, ¶28, 104 P.3d at 1216. 26

             B. The City’s Interpretation and Application

Alliance argues that § 10-15-35 does not apply to its Facility, because they do not house
individuals on a “temporary” basis. In their Facility, individuals would expect to stay for 12 to
18 months, much longer than the normal stay at drug and alcohol treatment facilities. In
addition, Alliance states that the young men assigned to their Facility would be in the legal
custody of the state, and that all records would indicate residence at the facility, including
driver’s licenses, court documents, and any property records. Since the Facility would be their
legal residence for up to 18 months, the young men would not receive “temporary” room or
board.

The City, on the other hand, points out that the plain meaning of the word “temporary” is
“something lasting for a limited time.” Since individuals will only stay at the Facility during the
course of the treatment, and then be required to leave, the Facility provides temporary housing,
bringing it within the scope of § 10-15-35. The length of the actual stay is not relevant, but the
stated temporary nature of the program is.




26
  In the Carrier decision, the court applied that rule to an ordinance interpreted by a “lay” planning commission,
rather than by a professional staff. Using the reasoning of the Carrier decision, the approach should be the same,
however, and the interpretation advanced by the City’s zoning staff should be given the same degree of non-binding
deference. See Carrier, 2004 UT 98, ¶¶ 25-28, 104 P.3d at 1215-16.

Advisory Opinion – Alliance/Pleasant Grove City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2009 – page 10 of 16 pages
There is no dispute that “temporary” means “lasting for a limited time; . . . not permanent;
transient; made to supply a passing need.” 27 This tends to support the City’s interpretation. The
Facility provides treatment and counseling in addition to room and board. The Facility will only
accept clients who stay for a limited period of time; when that time expires, the client must leave.
The length of the stay is not as determinative as its nature. Residency at the Facility is not
voluntary, and clients are not allowed to leave until their treatment is complete. Alliance states
that the young men in their care are “in the legal custody of the state,” and thus not empowered
to choose their residence. It is also noteworthy that the Facility is not available to members of
the general public seeking lodging.

The analysis, however, does not stop at the definition of “temporary” standing alone. The entire
statute is to be interpreted, and all parts should be given meaning and effect, starting with the
plain meaning and the intent of the statute. “[E]ffect should be given to each such word, phrase,
clause, and sentence where reasonably possible.” Sindt v. Retirement Board, 2007 UT 16, ¶ 8,
157 P.3d 797, 799. With that in mind, Alliance’s proposed Facility falls squarely within the
definition for a Service Organization: “[T]hose [organizations] that provide . . . temporary board
or room for youth or adults in a rehabilitation status.” Even the owners refer to the proposed
building as a “sex rehabilitation facility.” In short, Alliance will provide rehabilitation-type
treatment to clients who reside in the Facility for a limited, non-permanent, temporary period of
time. It is therefore a “service organization,” and is subject to § 10-15-35 of the Pleasant Grove
City Code.

Excusing the Facility from the plain language from § 10-15-35 simply because clients stay for a
longer period than other rehabilitation facilities is not supportable from the plain language of the
ordinance, and does not give effect to the intent of the statute. It is evident that the statute
regulates the placement and operation of all rehabilitation facilities. No distinction is made for
the length of a client’s stay. In order to give effect to the plain language of the statute, the
Facility must be subject to the statute’s restrictions. 28

Finally, the City’s interpretation of its own ordinances is imbued with a level of deference that
must be respected. The City’s interpretation and application is supported by the plain meaning of
the term “temporary,” as well as the meaning and intent of the statute. Given the deference
allowed to the City, the interpretation that § 10-15-35 applies to the Facility is reasonable.

 IV.        The City is not Estopped From Enforcing Section 10-15-35.

             A. The Doctrine of Zoning Estoppel.

 Alliance cannot claim that the City is prohibited from enforcing § 10-15-35 because it cannot
 claim sufficient reliance on the City’s acts or omissions to rely upon the principle of zoning
 estoppel.

27
   THE OXFORD ENGLISH DICTIONARY, 2ND ED. (1989). Other dictionaries generally agree. See e.g., MERRIAM
WEBSTER’S COLLEGIATE DICTIONARY, 11TH ED. (2003). According to word historians, the definition of “temporary”
has—somewhat ironically—remained stable for at least 450 years.
28
   Requiring clients to change their address on official documents and records does not change the nature of the
Facility, nor does it change the temporary nature of the residency.

Advisory Opinion – Alliance/Pleasant Grove City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2009 – page 11 of 16 pages
            To invoke the doctrine [of zoning estoppel] the [local government] must have
            committed an act or omission upon which the developer could rely in good faith
            in making substantial changes in position or incurring extensive expenses. The
            action upon which the developer claims reliance must be of a clear, definite, and
            affirmative nature. If the claim be based on an omission of the local zoning
            authority, omission means a negligent or culpable omission where the party
            failing to act under a duty to do so. Silence or inaction will not operate to work
            an estoppel. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, the landowner has a duty to
            inquire and confer with the local zoning authority regarding the uses of the
            property that would be permitted.

Utah County v. Young, 615 P.2d 1265, 1267-68 (Utah 1980).

Zoning estoppel protects property owners who have substantially relied upon acts or omissions
by a government entity.

            The focus of zoning estoppel is primarily upon the conduct and interests of the
            property owner. The main inquiry is whether there has been substantial reliance
            by the owner on governmental actions related to the superceded [sic] zoning that
            permitted the proposed use. The concern underlying this approach is the
            economic hardship that would be imposed on a property owner whose
            development plans are thwarted.

Western Land Equities v. City of Logan, 617 P.2d 388, 391 (Utah 1980). The Utah Supreme
Court has stated that zoning estoppel will be invoked in exceptional circumstances, when a
property owner “has made a substantial change in position or incurred such extensive obligations
or expenses that it would be highly inequitable to deprive the owner of his right to complete his
proposed development.” Id., 617 P.2d at 391. 29

Alliance states that it relied upon actions by the City which implied that the Facility could be
located on the property, specifically the following:

           The approval of the zoning ordinance amendment which allowed group home treatment
            centers in commercial zones.

           The application and site plan were accepted by the City staff, which recommended
            approval of the conditional use permit.

           The Board of Adjustment ruling that the Planning Commission erred when it considered
            the conditional use permit application.




29
   See also Xanthos v. Board of Adjustment of Salt Lake County, 685 P.2d 1032, 1037 (Utah 1984); Salt Lake County
v. Kartchner, 552 P.2d 136 (Utah 1976). Both cases state that estoppel is available only in exceptional
circumstances.

Advisory Opinion – Alliance/Pleasant Grove City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2009 – page 12 of 16 pages
Alliance states that it not only purchased the property in reliance on the City’s actions, but it
passed on opportunities to purchase other sites, began to prepare the property for the Facility, and
incurred expenses to prepare plans for the Facility.

The City, on the other hand notes that the City’s action to change the zoning ordinance did not
entitle Alliance to approval, but only provided that treatment center was a conditional use in the
C-S zone. The zone change was not an indication that a treatment center would be approved on
any specific parcel. The City also notes that Alliance closed on the parcel at the very time the
Planning Commission considered the application. The City states that purchasing the property
does not constitute substantial reliance on an act or omission of the City. Finally, the City points
out that Alliance is presumed to know the law, including the City’s ordinances.

            B. Application of Zoning Estoppel to the City’s Actions.

Reiterating the sequence of important events is useful to this analysis. Based on the materials
which were submitted, including the minutes of the Planning Commission, Board of Adjustment,
and City Council meetings, it appears that Alliance investigated possible sites for a treatment
facility in the Spring of 2008. They consulted with the City’s staff, who suggested sites located
in commercial zones, specifically properties located along State Street. Alliance evidently settled
on the property located at 560 E. 300 South, but the C-S zone did not allow treatment centers.
Alliance requested that the City’s zoning ordinance be amended (not the zoning for the property),
to allow treatment centers in the C-S zone as conditional uses. When the Planning Commission
considered this amendment, Alliance indicated that it was considering operating a treatment
center of some sort on the parcel. City staff recommended approval, although they stated that
they considered the City’s other commercial zones to be more appropriate for such treatment
centers. At the City Council meeting where the zoning amendment was considered, Alliance
again stated that they intended to construct and operate a treatment center on the parcel.

Following approval by the City Council, Alliance apparently finalized the purchase of the parcel,
and submitted an application for a conditional use permit. According to a statement made by the
City at the Planning Commission hearing on August 14, 2008, Alliance closed on the parcel
either on that date or August 15. The Planning Commission’s denial was appealed to the Board
of Adjustment, which issued its decision on September 18, 2008.

Based on an understanding of these facts, this Opinion cannot conclude that Alliance
substantially relied upon an act or omission on the part of the City. The question boils down to
whether or not the City was obligated to disclose or explain § 10-15-35 before Alliance
purchased the property. It has not been shown that the City was obligated to explain any part of
its zoning ordinance, therefore, Alliance cannot claim estoppel based on the City’s failure to
disclose or explain that § 10-15-35 might prohibit the Facility on Alliance’s parcel.

Alliance has not cited to any authority which imposes the duty to disclose all land use regulations
to a potential applicant. "It is established that an owner of property holds it subject to zoning
ordinances . . . .” Smith Investment Co. v. Sandy City, 958 P.2d 245, 252 (Utah Ct. App. 1998);
see also Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 390. There is no question that § 10-15-35 was
enacted by the City and was applicable at the time Alliance applied for the conditional use

Advisory Opinion – Alliance/Pleasant Grove City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2009 – page 13 of 16 pages
permit. 30 Ignorance of a law (or a zoning ordinance) does not excuse a property owner from
compliance.

The decision in Alta v. Ben Hame Corp. illustrates this point. In that case, a city was not
estopped from enforcing its zoning ordinances, even though the property owner had received
annual business licenses to operate a business that was not allowed under the zoning ordinances.
The property owner began using its building as temporary lodging, and was given business
licenses from the city for nearly two years. The city then discovered that the lodging business
violated the city’s zoning ordinances, and so it obtained an injunction. The Court of Appeals
held that mistakenly granting the business licenses did not justify good faith reliance by the
property owner. See Town of Alta v. Ben Hame Corp., 836 P.2d 797, 803 (Utah Ct. App. 1992).

In Utah County v. Young, supra, property owners built a “barn” on property that was zoned for
agricultural activities only. The owners intended to use the building for a commercial business,
and the building was designed as such, including public restrooms and commercial-quality
electrical wiring. The county prosecuted the property owners for operating a business in
violation of the county’s zoning code. The owners argued that the county knew that the building
was for commercial purposes, because they informed the building inspector of their intent when
the inspections were conducted. The Utah Supreme Court rejected that argument, holding that
the county was not estopped simply because the county may have been aware of the owner’s
intent. See Utah County v. Young, 615 P.2d at 1267-68.

Another case from Utah County reinforces this position. In Utah County v. Baxter, 635 P.2d 61
(Utah 1981), a property owner obtained a permit to renovate a residence, and then was prohibited
from converting that residence into a restaurant. Another building, which had operated as a
restaurant on the same property, had been destroyed by fire, but the county’s ordinances
prohibited restaurants in that zone. The property owner claimed that the county was aware that
she was renovating the home for use as a restaurant, and so the county was estopped from
prohibiting the use, especially after she had expended a great deal of money on the renovations.
The Utah Supreme Court rejected her estoppel argument, holding that the owner had not shown
that “exceptional circumstances” existed to justify the use of zoning estoppel. Baxter, 635 P.2d
at 65.

These cases illustrate the type of culpability imposed upon local governments. Like Alliance,
each of the property owners had a claim that the government entities involved had actual notice
of their intent. 31 Those owners had also incurred expenses, evidently confident that their
respective projects were permissible. Unlike Alliance, however, the three property owners in the
cases just discussed had actually obtained a building permit (or a business license), and the
action to prevent the use started only after the local governments discovered that the uses were
not permitted. Alliance, on the other hand, had not been granted any kind of permit. They had
successfully petitioned for a change in the City’s zoning ordinances, but that is not permission
for a specific project. Even though Alliance made its intentions clear when it requested the
30
  The ordinance indicates that it was enacted in July of 2000, and amended in 2003.
31
  The level of knowledge in the three cases vary, but the argument is essentially the same as Alliance’s: Since the
local government entities should have been aware of the property owner’s intent, they should be estopped from
enforcing the zoning ordinance that prohibited the uses.

Advisory Opinion – Alliance/Pleasant Grove City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2009 – page 14 of 16 pages
zoning amendment, they have not shown the kind of exceptional circumstances that must exist in
order to successfully invoke zoning estoppel.

Furthermore, Alliance has not suffered the kind of extensive obligations or economic hardship
that would make enforcing § 10-15-35 highly inequitable. Alliance purchased the property,
evidently because it was sure that it could get permission to construct its Facility, not necessarily
because of any act or omission on the part of the City. However, purchasing property, even in
reliance on a governmental representation, does not constitute an extensive expense. “[T]he
mere purchase or actual ownership of land [is] inadequate to establish a substantial change in
position or the incurrence of extensive expenses. Rather, something beyond mere ownership of
the land is required before the doctrine of equitable estoppel will apply, and in most cases the
doctrine will not apply absent exceptional circumstances.” Stucker v. Summit County, 870 P.2d
283, 290 (Utah Ct. App. 1994). 32

To conclude, Alliance has not established that the City should be estopped from enforcing § 10-
15-35. Alliance has not shown that the City had a duty to disclose and explain all of its zoning
ordinances, even if the City were aware of Alliance’s plans. In addition, Alliance has not shown
that it incurred extensive obligations or expenses because of the City’s omission. Because
Alliance has not shown that it is entitled to estop the City, it cannot claim that § 10-15-35 may
not be enforced. 33



                                                  Conclusion
The Pleasant Grove City Board of Adjustment has discretion to remand a matter to the Planning
Commission for further consideration. An appeal authority acts with quasi-judicial authority. An
appeal authority may remand a matter, particularly when it determines that the land use authority
(i.e., a planning commission) did not fully consider all evidence. The power to remand a matter
is inherently part of the authority to hear and decide an appeal of a land use decision, and an
appeal authority has discretion to order remand and reconsideration when appropriate.

The City’s Planning Commission should reconsider the conditional use permit application in a
public hearing in which new evidence and argument may be presented. Since the Board of
Adjustment determined that the Planning Commission failed to address the standards required by
the City’s ordinances, the proper remedy is for the Planning Commission to address those
standards and make its decision based on a full consideration of all evidence. Alliance will also
be able to participate in this public hearing, so there is only minimal danger of prejudice against
their application.


32
   The Utah Supreme Court also indicated that preconstruction activities, such as preparation of architectural
drawings, may not be sufficient to constitute substantial reliance. See Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 392.
33
   Insofar as the application of § 10-15-35 is concerned, please note that this Opinion simply states that (1) The
City’s interpretation and application of the section are supported by the language of the ordinance, and (2) The City
is not estopped from enforcing that section. How § 10-15-35 applies to Alliance’s project, and whether there are
other legal issues impacting the applicability of that section are not addressed in this Opinion.

Advisory Opinion – Alliance/Pleasant Grove City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2009 – page 15 of 16 pages
The City’s interpretation and application of § 10-15-35 is supported by the plain language of that
section, and acceptable under the standards of statutory interpretation. The word “temporary”
means non-permanent or lasting for a limited time. Alliance admits that its clients will stay at the
Facility for a limited time, albeit a longer period than other types of rehabilitation centers.
Moreover, § 10-15-35 applies to rehabilitation facilities providing room and board on a
temporary basis. Alliance’s proposed Facility squarely fits that definition, so the City may apply
the provisions of that section.

Finally, the City is not estopped from enforcing § 10-15-35, because Alliance has not shown that
the City had a duty to inform them of that section when they were considering sites for the
Facility. Property is subject to zoning ordinances. Section 10-15-35 was enacted several years
before Alliance proposed its Facility. A local government does not have an affirmative duty to
inform every applicant about every possible zoning ordinance. Even if the City were aware of
Alliance’s plans and intentions, they may still enforce their zoning ordinances. In addition,
Alliance has not incurred the kind of extensive obligations or expenses necessary to justify
estoppel of the City’s zoning ordinances. 34




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




34
   Alliance also requested a determination of whether or not it is entitled to the conditional use permit. However,
this Opinion has already determined that the Board of Adjustment had discretion to remand the matter back to the
Planning Commission for proper consideration. It would be inappropriate for this Opinion to state whether or not the
conditional use permit should have been granted, since the Planning Commission has not fully considered all
evidence pertaining to Alliance’s application.
Advisory Opinion – Alliance/Pleasant Grove City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2009 – page 16 of 16 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

           Amanda R. Fraughton, City Recorder
           Pleasant Grove City
           70 S. 100 East
           Pleasant Grove, Utah 84062

On this ___________ Day of February, 2009, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
