                     Advisory Opinion #87
                     Parties: Deepwater Distribution Co. and Wasatch County
                          Issued: June 17, 2010, clarified on August 25, 2010

                                        TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      R(v): Other Topics (Interpretation of Ordinances)

The Utah Division of Drinking Water regulates culinary water systems and
supplies, and does not have authority over fire suppression systems. Compliance
with the Fire Code serves important public interests, but any regulation can “go
too far” and constitute a regulatory taking of private property. Dedication requires
a showing of intent to dedicate property to a public entity.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
       Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 GARY R. HERBERT
 Lieutenant Governor



                                           ADVISORY OPINION

       Advisory Opinion Requested by:                 Deepwater Distribution Company, Inc.
                                                      Sean Brown, President

       Local Government Entity:                       Wasatch County

       Applicant for the Land Use Approval:           Deepwater Distribution Company, Inc.

       Project:                                       Culinary Water System

       Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 June 17, 2010

       Opinion Authored By:                           Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney, Office of the Property
                                                      Rights Ombudsman



                                                      Issues
       May a local government require installation of a fire suppression system as a condition for
       approval of a culinary water system?

                                     Summary of Advisory Opinion
       The Division of Drinking Water does not have authority to require a culinary water system to
       include a fire suppression system. The Division ensures that drinking water is safe, that delivery
       systems are adequate, and that watersheds are protected, but they do not have authority to require
       an applicant to install a fire suppression system.

       The County has authority to require compliance with the International Fire Code. This is a valid
       condition imposed by ordinance, and serves a legitimate public purpose. However, regulations
       that promote the public interest may still constitute a “virtual taking,” if the regulation frustrates
       investment-backed expectations and shifts a public burden onto a private property owner.
       Instead of the “Nollan/Dolan” exaction analysis, non-dedicatory conditions may be evaluated
       using the framework established by the U.S. Supreme Court in Penn Central Transportation and
       other cases. Under that framework, the Fire Suppression Requirement is probably not a taking.
                                                Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-
205. The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or
other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such
a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

A request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Deepwater Distribution Company, Inc. on
March 1, 2010. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Thomas L. Low, Wasatch
County Attorney. The County received the request on March 2, 2010. The County submitted a
response to the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, which was received on April 15,
2010. Deepwater submitted a reply, which was received on May 3, 2010. The County submitted
a response on May 4, 2010.

                                               Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.         Request for an Advisory Opinion, filed March 2, 2010 with the Office of the Property
                Rights Ombudsman by Paxton Guymon, attorney for Deepwater Distribution
                Company, Inc., with attachments.
     2.         Response from Wasatch County, submitted by Kevin S. Thurman, Deputy County
                Attorney, received on April 15, 2010, with attachments.
     3.         Reply submitted by Paxton Guymon, received by fax on May 3, 2010.
     4.         Response submitted by the County, received by fax on May 4, 2010.

                                              Background
Deepwater Distribution Company, Inc. is a mutual water company, and is made up of property
owners from the Brighton Estates area in Wasatch County. Brighton Estates is a subdivision
located near Guardsman Pass, above the Brighton Ski Resort, across the mountain from Deer
Creek and Park City, and above Midway and the Wasatch Mountain State Park. It is an
unincorporated area of Wasatch County, and was approved as a subdivision in the 1960s.
According to Deepwater, there are 108 residences, although most of them are considered
secondary or recreational homes. However, at least 17 homes are occupied year-round. Because




Advisory Opinion – Deepwater/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 17, 2010 – page 2 of 15 pages
it is located in a rather remote, mountainous location, Brighton Estates has no public water or
sewer system, and very limited public service in general. 1

Deepwater was formed for the purpose of installing a culinary water system for up to 60
properties in Brighton Estates. The proposed system would provide service to the homes by
accessing a nearby well and piping the water to underground tanks located on each residential
lot. The system was designed provide at least 400 gallons of drinking water for each home,
which apparently would meet the minimum standards for culinary water service.

Beginning in 2005, the County began to strictly enforce a requirement that new development
comply with fire codes. Both Wasatch County and the State of Utah have adopted the
International Fire Code as the standard for fire safety. 2 Prior to 2005, the County approved or
allowed construction of new homes in the Brighton Estates area, even though there was no fire
suppression system in place.

The International Fire Code is not merely a guideline, but is a statutory requirement for all
buildings. Appendix “B” governs “Fire-Flow Requirements for Buildings,” and Subsection
B105.1 requires that residential dwellings meet the 1,000 gallon per minute flow with a 2-hour
duration requirement. 3 The County further explains that the International Wildland Urban
Interface Code proposes a 1,500 gpm minimum flow rate for a two-hour duration. 4

In February of 2009, Deepwater petitioned the Utah Division of Drinking Water for approval of
the proposed drinking water system in Brighton Estates. Deepwater proposed using 8-inch
delivery lines, rather than 4-inch lines, so that their system could be integrated into a fire-
suppression system in the future. 5 The Division of Drinking Water responded with a letter
outlining several “review comments” on the system, covering such things as water quality, the
amount of water rights, and the carrying capacity of the pipes in the system. One comment
addressed water storage, and stated that each residential connection required a minimum of 400
gallons. However, the Division noted that fire suppression required a minimum of 120,000
gallons, and that “[t]his additional capacity will be required for Deepwater’s system unless we

1
  Several properties with structures apparently have septic systems, and wells for drinking water. The area has
electrical service, but not a natural gas system. The roads receive little maintenance from the County, and there is no
snow removal in the winter.
2
  See UTAH CODE ANN. § 53-7-106(1): “A fire code promulgated by a nationally recognized code authority . . . is
the state fire code, to which cities, counties, fire protection districts, and the state shall adhere in safeguarding life
and property from the hazards of fire and explosion.” See also WASATCH COUNTY CODE, § 16.21.13 (Adoption of
the International Fire Code). The County explains that the Wasatch County Fire Protection Special Service District
was formed to govern fire protection, and that this special service district is a separate entity from Wasatch County.
However, the County Council also serves as the board for the special service district. For the purposes of this
Opinion, the County and the special service district will be treated as if they were the same entity.
3
  “The minimum fire-flow requirements for one- and two-family dwellings having a fire-flow calculation area which
does not exceed 3,600 square feet . . . shall be 1,000 gallons per minute.” The fire-flow rate is measured at 20
pounds per square inch. The “two-hour duration” requirement is also found in Appendix B of the International Fire
Code.
4
  See INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE, § B103.3. Brighton Estates is located within a Wildland Urban Interface zone.
5
  The larger lines would accommodate the additional capacity needed for fire suppression. Evidently, Deepwater
envisions a hydrant system for Brighton Estates.


Advisory Opinion – Deepwater/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 17, 2010 – page 3 of 15 pages
receive written notification from Wasatch County that it will not require fire suppression
capability.”

Deepwater responded to the Division’s concerns, including the requirement of additional
capacity for fire suppression. Deepwater stated that it had asked the County to allow
construction of the culinary water system without requiring a fire suppression system, but the
County declined to do so. In a letter dated September 29, 2009, the County Fire District stated
that it will not issue new building permits unless the requirements of the International Fire Code
could be met. Deepwater argued that it is only interested in designing a drinking water system,
and that fire suppression is a separate matter that ought to be addressed by the County.
Deepwater felt that the Division could approve a drinking water system without requiring that it
also provide fire suppression. 6 The County has not required Deepwater to include a public fire
suppression system as part of the proposed culinary water pipeline.

Deepwater met with the County, attempting to resolve the dispute. By January of 2010, the
County Council (which also makes up the Wasatch County Fire Board) declined to modify its
position that no new development could be approved without compliance with the International
Fire Code.

In January of 2010, the State Drinking Water Board considered Deepwater’s request to approve
its culinary water system, and disregard the County’s fire suppression requirement. Although
Deepwater had addressed the other concerns raised by the Division, the Drinking Water Board
determined that it could not ignore the County’s requirement. As of the date of Deepwater’s
Request for Advisory Opinion, the Board had not taken a final action on the application.

The County notes that it is not obligated to construct a fire suppression system for Brighton
Estates, or for any other area of Wasatch County. The County explains that it provides fire
protection services for unincorporated areas, through its Fire Protection Special Service District,
but that service does not mean that the County must install fire suppression systems. A group of
property owners may create a special service district for the purpose of constructing a public fire
suppression system. The County states that it would support such an effort by the property
owners in Brighton Estates, but that to its knowledge, there have been no efforts to form a special
service district. 7

The County also objects to this Opinion, claiming that since Deepwater has no active land use
application before the County, the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman lacks authority to
prepare an Advisory Opinion on this matter.



6
  The Division cited to its administrative rules which state that a culinary system shall comply with the International
Fire Code if a local fire authority requires that the system provide water for fire suppression. See UTAH ADMIN.
CODE Rule R309-550-5(5).
7
  Special Service Districts may be created for several public purposes, including fire protection. A district would
have power to assess properties to raise funds for public projects. Provisions related to the creation and management
of special service districts are found in Titles 17B, 17C, and 17D of the Utah Code.


Advisory Opinion – Deepwater/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 17, 2010 – page 4 of 15 pages
                                                     Analysis
I.      Because There is a Question Related to Conditions on Land Development, the Office
        of the Property Rights Ombudsman May Issue an Advisory Opinion on this Matter.

In spite of the County’s objections, the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman may issue an
Advisory Opinion on this matter, because it involves the application and interpretation of an
ordinance directly related to land development. The County correctly notes that § 13-43-205
generally delineates the topics for Advisory Opinions. That section also states that Advisory
Opinions may be requested “[a]t any time before a final decision on a land use application by a
local appeal authority.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-205. However, that provision does not
necessarily block the ability to issue Advisory Opinions on issues which concern interpretation
and implementation of ordinances affecting land use and development. There is no requirement
in § 13-43-205 that a land use application actually be pending before an Advisory Opinion can be
requested. Indeed, some of the topics listed as appropriate for Advisory Opinions do not
necessarily arise due to land use applications, such as impact fees and non-conforming uses/non-
complying structures. Moreover, conditions, exactions, and application of ordinances are topics
for which Advisory Opinions are available. It follows that interpretation of an ordinance or a
condition expressed during the land use approval process must be a valid topic for an Advisory
Opinion. By offering such opinions, the Ombudsman’s Office is able to provide guidance to local
government and property owners, help avoid litigation, and encourage resolution of disputes. 8

Local governments may impose conditions on land uses through ordinances. See id., §§ 10-9a-
509 and 17-27a-508. 9 The Ombudsman’s Office may issue Advisory Opinions on questions
arising not only from imposition of conditions, but also concerning application and interpretation
of conditions imposed pursuant to §§ 10-9a-509 and 17-27a-508. See id., § 13-43-205. In order
to fulfill the purposes of Advisory Opinions and the mission of the Ombudsman’s Office, it is
necessary that Advisory Opinions be prepared that focus on the interpretation and application of
ordinances affecting land use. 10

Deepwater requested this Opinion because a County requirement affected Deepwater’s
application for approval of a drinking water system. The culinary water system was proposed to
improve development of the Brighton Estates area. The State Division of Drinking Water
deferred to the County’s requirement that the proposed system must also provide fire suppression
for residences in the area. Drawing from its interpretation of the International Fire Code, the

8
   The dispute resolution function of the Advisory Opinion, combined with the fact that Advisory Opinions are
advisory and not binding upon either party, supports the conclusion that Advisory Opinions should be made
available to more, rather than fewer, parties. Where an Advisory Opinion can help resolve a matter without the need
for litigation, it ought to be available. Accordingly, it is the policy of the OPRO to interpret the limitations on
availability of Advisory Opinions expansively where possible. Advisory Opinions remain unavailable when
exclusion is explicit.
9
  Local governments may impose conditions, provided they are expressed in statute, ordinance, or clearly stated in
writing as part of the final approval.
10
   Moreover, a decision by the land use authority regarding interpretation or application of a condition, and a dispute
thereon, may arise long after the condition is imposed.


Advisory Opinion – Deepwater/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 17, 2010 – page 5 of 15 pages
County indicated that the fire suppression requirement would be imposed as a condition upon
permits for the culinary water system. 11

The County argues that Deepwater has not formally submitted an application for approval to
construct the culinary water system, so questions about the validity of the fire suppression
requirement are not yet ripe, and cannot be a valid topic for an Advisory Opinion. However, the
County has already imposed the condition on Deepwater’s project, because it declined a request
to waive the requirement, thus making it a condition of approval by the Division of Drinking
Water. In other words, the County’s position is clear, and a formal land use application by
Deepwater would yield the same result. Therefore, the County’s position interpreting and
applying an ordinance imposing a requirement upon land development is a suitable subject for an
Advisory Opinion.

 II. The Division of Drinking Water May Not Require Deepwater to Install a Fire
     Suppression System as a Condition of Approval.

 The Division of Drinking Water may not require compliance with the County’s fire suppression
 requirements as a condition on approval of Deepwater’s drinking water system. The Division
 has no authority to include fire suppression as part of the culinary water system, because the
 proposed system is not intended or required to provide water for fire suppression. The
 Division’s authority is limited to regulating public water systems, and ensuring that those
 systems deliver adequate supplies of safe drinking water. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 19-4-104.
 Fire suppression, while important, is not within the Division’s statutory mandate.

 The Division seems to be misinterpreting Rule R309-550-5, which was adopted by the Division
 to govern design of water mains. Part of that rule governs design of water mains if a system is
 also required to provide water for fire protection:

           If a public water system is required to provide water for fire suppression by the
           local fire authority, or if the system has installed fire hydrants on existing
           distribution mains for that purpose:

           (a) The design of the distribution system shall be consistent with Appendix B of
               the 2003 International Fire Code. . . .

           (c) An exception to the fire protection requirements of (a) . . . may be granted if a
               suitable statement is received from the local fire protection authority.

UTAH ADMIN. CODE R. R309-550-5(5) (emphasis added). This rule grants limited authority for
the Division to regulate the design of a water main used to deliver water for fire suppression, but




11
  The County observed that Deepwater would need excavation and building permits to begin construction of the
culinary water system.


Advisory Opinion – Deepwater/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 17, 2010 – page 6 of 15 pages
only when the system is required to provide water for fire suppression. 12 That provision of
R309-550-5 does not apply to systems not required to deliver water for fire protection.

Deepwater does not intend that the proposed system would provide water for fire suppression,
and the County has not required that the system be designed for fire protection. 13 Deepwater
designed its system with larger water lines which could be incorporated into a suppression
system in the future, if one is installed. However, this additional capacity appears to be
voluntary on the part of Deepwater, and is not a requirement imposed by the County. Since the
Deepwater system is not required to provide water for fire suppression, Rule R309-550-5(5) does
not apply, and there is no basis for the Division to require that the system be designed to provide
additional water as well as a delivery system for fire protection. 14

 III. The Fire Code Suppression Requirement Should be Evaluated as a Condition on
      Development, Including Analysis as a Regulatory Taking

 Because compliance serves an important public interest, the County may require compliance
 with the International Fire Code before granting approval for new development. However,
 compliance with the Fire Code may constitute a “virtual taking” if it unreasonably interferes
 with the owner’s expected use and development of property. Compliance with building and fire
 codes ought to be evaluated as a condition imposed upon development.

     A. The Fire Code Promotes the Legitimate Public Interest of Preventing Fires and Minimizing
        Loss due to Fires.

 Local governments may impose conditions on new development, provided those conditions are
 expressed in statute, ordinance, or are included as part of the approval process. See UTAH CODE

12
   Under R309-550-5(5), the Division only regulates the capacity and design of water mains, to ensure that they can
provide the necessary water for fire suppression. See also UTAH ADMIN. CODE R. R309-510-8(1)(b) (requiring
adequate fire suppression storage capacity, if the water system has fire hydrants, and is intended to provide water for
fire suppression.). It should also be noted that the Division’s response required additional storage capacity to
provide water for fire suppression, but there was no indication that the proposed system was intended to provide fire
suppression, or would have hydrants.
13
   The County’s letter of September 29, 2009 states that it will not issue building permits, unless the builder
complies with the fire-suppression requirement. The County did not require that Deepwater’s culinary water system
also provide water for fire suppression.
14
   Moreover, there is no rational basis for the Division to be involved in whether a drinking water system must also
provide fire suppression. The Division’s purpose is to ensure that drinking water is safe, that delivery systems are
adequate, and that watersheds are protected. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 19-4-104. If a drinking water system is
required to provide fire suppression, then the Division may incorporate that consideration into the design of water
mains and storage capacity. However, the Division’s authority is limited even in that scenario. The amount of water
needed, and even the placement of hydrants is regulated by the International Fire Code, not the Division. In order to
justify such regulatory authority, the Division must show that its regulation bears some rational relationship to
legitimate governmental purposes. See Purdie v. University of Utah, 584 P.2d 831, 832 (Utah 1978); see also Bank
of Columbia v. Okely, 17 U.S. 235, 244 (1819) (Due Process is “intended to secure the individual from the arbitrary
exercise of the powers of government”). The County is sufficiently empowered to implement the Fire Code and
require compliance, so there is no rational basis for the Division’s assumption that it is responsible to impose fire
suppression as a condition on Deepwater’s application for a culinary water system.


Advisory Opinion – Deepwater/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 17, 2010 – page 7 of 15 pages
 ANN. § 17-27a-508(1)(h). 15 Since the International Fire Code has been adopted by both the
 State of Utah and Wasatch County, it may be validly imposed upon new development. 16
 Requiring compliance with the Fire Code also promotes an important public interest. “When a
 fundamental right is not at issue, a statute will not violate substantive due process if it is
 rationally related to a legitimate state interest.” Gardner v. Board of County Commissioners of
 Wasatch County, 2008 UT 6, ¶ 33, 178 P.3d 893, 903. In general, imposing the Fire Code on
 new development does not involve a fundamental right, so the requirement is valid if it is
 rationally related to a legitimate public purpose. Preventing fires, and minimizing loss caused
 by fires is obviously an important public interest. 17 The requirements of the Fire Code are
 designed to promote fire prevention and minimize damage, and so are rationally related to a
 legitimate public interest.

     B. The Fire Suppression Requirement is Invalid if it Significantly Interferes with Development
        of Property to the Point that a “Virtual Taking” has Occurred..

 Although the Fire Code promotes an important public purpose, imposing it as a condition on an
 individual development may constitute a regulatory taking, if the high burden of compliance
 unreasonably restricts the owner’s investment-backed expectations, and if the regulation shifts a
 public burden onto a private property owner. The Fire Code is rationally related to a legitimate
 governmental interest, but, “even ‘a state statute that substantially furthers important public
 policies may so frustrate distinct investment-backed expectations as to amount to a taking.’”
 Arnell v. Salt Lake County Board of Adjustment, 2005 UT App. 165, ¶34, 112 P.3d 1214, 1224
 (quoting Penn Central Transportation Co. v. City of New York, 438 U.S. 104, 127 (1978)).
 Furthermore, “an analysis of several factors indicates [whether] the interference is so great that
 a virtual taking has nonetheless occurred.” Diamond B-Y Ranches v. Tooele County, 2004 UT
 App 135, ¶ 14, 91 P.3d 841, 845. The question then becomes whether this particular application
 of the fire suppression requirement is such a significant interference that it constitutes a “virtual
 taking” of Deepwater’s property.

        1.      The Fire Suppression Requirement is not an Exaction Unless a Property Owner
                Dedicates Property for a Public Use.

As a preliminary matter, it must be explained that the Fire Suppression Requirement is not an
exaction, as long as the suppression system is not dedicated to the public. This is a departure
from earlier opinions issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, and so a brief
explanation is in order. Earlier opinions, including one analyzing a similar fire suppression
15
   See also UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(1)(h) (applicable to cities). According to that subsection, a local
government “may not impose on a holder of an issued land use permit or approved subdivision plat a requirement
that is not expressed . . . in the land use permit or subdivision plat, documents on which the [approval] is based, or
the written record evidencing approval . . ., or in [the Utah Code] or [local] ordinances.” It follows, then, that a
requirement that is expressed may be imposed.
16
   See UTAH CODE ANN. § 53-7-204 (Utah Fire Prevention Board authorized to adopt fire code. See also Utah
Admin. Code R710-9-1 (adoption of International Fire Code). WASATCH COUNTY CODE § 16.21.13 (County
adoption of International Fire Code).
17
   See UTAH CODE ANN. § 53-7-106; see also § 17-50-302: (Counties may provide services reasonably related to the
health, safety, and welfare of residents). Furthermore, building and fire codes promote safety and fire prevention.


Advisory Opinion – Deepwater/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 17, 2010 – page 8 of 15 pages
requirement in Brighton Estates, analyzed the requirement under an “exaction” theory. This
theory used the “Nollan/Dolan” rough proportionality test, as codified at § 17-27a-507 of the
Utah Code. 18 For the reasons stated herein, the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
modifies that approach, insofar as it affects requirements or conditions imposed upon
development without a dedication of a public improvement.

The term “exaction” is not defined in the Utah Code, but decisions from Utah’s appellate courts
provide some guidance. The Utah Supreme Court has stated that “[e]xactions are conditions
imposed by government entities on developers for the issuance of a building permit or
subdivision plat approval.” B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 34, 128
P.3d 1161, 1169 (“B.A.M. I”). 19 That sentence seems to support a conclusion that any condition
imposed upon development should be analyzed as an exaction. However, the court provided a
few examples of exactions:

        They . . . may take the form of (1) mandatory dedication of land for roads, schools,
        or parks, . . . (2) fees-in-lieu of mandatory dedication, (3) water or sewage
        connection fees, and (4) impact fees. In these respects, exactions take on the
        likeness of regulatory takings. . . . [E]xactions resemble physical takings in the
        sense that they typically require the permanent surrender of private property for
        public use.

Id. (internal quotations omitted). While this does not provide a concrete definition, the B.A.M I
decision indicates that the term “exaction” is limited to dedication of private property (including
monetary dedications) for a public purpose in exchange for development approval. 20 This
interpretation is consistent with the U.S. Supreme Court, which has held that “rough
proportionality” analysis only applies when property is dedicated for public use. 21

In addition, “rough proportionality” analysis is not well-suited to determine whether a non-
dedicatory condition is valid. Development of land is highly-regulated, and a property owner
must comply with numerous conditions involving the use of land, placement and design of
structures, required improvements (such as water and sewer service), etc. These regulations are
conditions that must be satisfied in order for development to occur, but they do not always
involve dedication of property for a public use. Rough proportionality analysis requires a
comparison of the expense imposed on the developer against the cost to the public entity to

18
   See e.g., Shea/Wasatch County, Advisory Opinion No. 55, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, November
2008.
19
   See also Salt Lake County v. Board of Education, Granite School District, 808 P.2d 1056, 1058 (Utah 1991)
(holding that “development exactions” are “contributions to a governmental entity imposed as a condition precedent
to approving the developer’s project.”)
20
   The B.A.M I decision also discussed both Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825 (1987) and Dolan v.
City of Tigard, 512 U.S. 374 (1994) to clarify its analysis of exactions. Both cases concerned dedication of property
rights for public uses. “Water and sewage connection fees” are a type of exaction, because a developer is
contributing (or “dedicating”) money to help pay for a public utility.
21
   “[W]e have not extended the rough-proportionality test of Dolan beyond the special context of exactions — land-
use decisions conditioning approval of development on the dedication of property to public use.” Monterey v. Del
Monte Dunes at Monterey, LTD, 526 U.S. 687, 702 (1999).


Advisory Opinion – Deepwater/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 17, 2010 – page 9 of 15 pages
address the impact caused by the new development. See B.A.M Development, LLC v. Salt Lake
County, 2008 UT 74, ¶ 11, 196 P.3d 601, 604 (“B.A.M. II”). It may be difficult to ascertain the
public cost to address impacts when the purpose of the regulation is to promote health and safety
and it more directly benefits the property owner.

For example, building codes regulate the design of structures. These regulations are conditions
imposed on property owners for the issuance of a building permit. Complying with these
conditions increases the cost of the building. However, it is difficult to determine the public
impact which is addressed by the building codes. While the regulations serve important public
purposes, by ensuring that structures are safe, the property owner benefits more than the public at
large. Rough proportionality analysis requires that the expense to the owner be roughly
equivalent to the cost of addressing the impact. How would the public address the impact if the
owner did not comply? What would be the cost to the public to address the impact?

Even if a value for the public impact could be assigned, it may be well below the expense
incurred by a property owner. If that is the case, rough proportionality analysis requires that the
public entity compensate the owner. Such a requirement would be unsupportable financially, and
would serve as an incentive to relax building codes defeating the purpose of ensuring safe
building construction. It is well-established that property may be regulated without requiring
compensation to the property owner. 22 All of the factors listed here lead to the conclusion that
the “Nollan/Dolan” rough proportionality test is not suited to analyze non-dedicatory
conditions. 23

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman therefore concludes that the rough proportionality
test, as explained in Nollan, Dolan, and the B.A.M decisions should not be applied to non-
dedicatory conditions or regulation of property development. Instead, such regulations should be
subject to the traditional regulatory takings analysis explained in Penn Central Transportation.
This approach will be more fully explained below.

        2.      The Fire Code Must Satisfy the Penn Central Transportation Analysis

Having concluded that the appropriate test is the analysis expounded by the U.S. Supreme Court
in Penn Central Transportation, the focus now turns to an explanation of that analysis. The
Penn Central analysis addresses when regulation of property “goes too far.” 24 There is no “set
formula,” but rather an ad hoc analysis balancing private and public interests. The basic
principles of this analysis have actually been part of the Supreme Court’s Takings jurisprudence
for some time:
22
   Pennsylvania Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U.S. 393, 413 (1922). “Government hardly could go on if to some extent
values incident to property could not be diminished without paying for every such change in the general law. As
long recognized, some values are enjoyed under an implied limitation and must yield to the police power.”
23
   See also Clajon Prod. Corp. v. Petera, 70 F.3d 1566, 1579 (10th Cir. 1995) (In a case arising from Wyoming, the
Tenth Circuit concluded that “[g]iven the important distinctions between general police power regulations and
development exactions, and the resemblance of development exactions to physical takings cases, we believe that the
‘essential nexus’ and ‘rough proportionality’ tests are properly limited to the context of development exactions.”)
24
   “[W]hile property may be regulated to a certain extent, if regulation goes too far it will be recognized as a taking.”
Pennsylvania Coal, 260 U.S. at 415.


Advisory Opinion – Deepwater/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 17, 2010 – page 10 of 15 pages
           All rights tend to declare themselves absolute to their logical extreme. Yet all are
           in fact limited by neighborhood of principles of policy which are other than those
           on which the particular right is founded, and which become strong enough to hold
           their own when a certain point is reached. The limits set to property by other
           public interests present themselves as a branch of what is called the police power
           of the State. The boundary at which the conflicting interests balance cannot be
           determined by any general formula in advance, but points in the line, or helping to
           establish it, are fixed by decisions that this or that concrete case falls on the nearer
           or farther side. For instance, the police power may limit the height of buildings,
           in a city, without compensation. To that extent it cuts down what otherwise would
           be the rights of property. But if it should attempt to limit the height so far as to
           make an ordinary building lot wholly useless, the rights of property would prevail
           over the other public interest, and the police power would fail. To set such a limit
           would need compensation and the power of eminent domain.

Hudson County Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U.S. 349, 355 (1908). In Penn Central
Transportation and subsequent decisions, the Court developed a framework to analyze claims of
regulatory takings.

To begin with “the nature of the [governmental] action is critical in takings analysis . . ..”
Keystone Bituminous Coal Ass’n v. DeBenedictis, 480 U.S. 470, 488 (1987). In addition,

           the Court’s decisions have identified several factors that have particular
           significance. The economic impact of the regulation on the claimant and,
           particularly, the extent to which the regulation has interfered with distinct
           investment-backed expectations are, of course, relevant considerations.

Penn Central Transportation, 438 U.S. at 125. 25 The purpose of the regulation is also an
important factor, and “aids in accomplishing the purpose of the Takings Clause, which is to
prevent the government from ‘forcing some people alone to bear public burdens which, in all
fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.’” Diamond B-Y Ranches, 2004 UT
App 135, ¶ 14, 91 P.3d at 846 (quoting Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960); see
also Palazzolo v. Rhode Island, 533 U.S. 606, 617-18 (2001); other internal quotes omitted).26
This means that both public and private concerns must be considered:

           The determination that governmental action constitutes a taking is, in essence, a
           determination that public at large, rather than a single owner, must bear the
           burden of an exercise of state power in the public interest. . . . [T]he question
           necessarily requires a weighing of private and public interests.


25
   See also Diamond B-Y Ranches v. Tooele County, 2004 UT App 135, ¶ 14, 91 P. 3d 841, 845-46 (Utah Court of
Appeals adopting Penn Central analysis).
26
   The Supreme Court observed that “in instances in which a state tribunal reasonably concluded that ‘the health,
safety, morals, or general welfare’ would be promoted . . . this Court has upheld land-use regulations that destroyed
or adversely affected recognized real property interests.” Penn Central Transportation, 438 U.S. at 125.


Advisory Opinion – Deepwater/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 17, 2010 – page 11 of 15 pages
Agins v. Tiburon, 447 U.S. 255, 260-61 (1980) (abrogated in part by Lingle v. Chevron, 544 U.S.
528 (2005)). Finally, “[a]lthough a comparison of values before and after a regulatory action is
relevant, it is by no means conclusive.” Keystone Bituminous, 480 U.S. at 491 (quotations and
alterations omitted).

As the Court explained in a later decision, the Takings Clause “is designed not to limit the
governmental interference with property rights per se, but rather to secure compensation in the
event of otherwise proper interference amounting to a taking.” First English Evangelical
Lutheran Church of Glendale v. County of Los Angeles, 482 U.S. 304, 315 (1987) (emphasis in
original). Two other principles are important guides when balancing public and private interests.
First, the Court has long recognized that “all property . . . is held under the implied obligation
that the owner’s use of it shall not be injurious to the community, . . . and the Takings Clause
[does] not transform that principle to one that requires compensation whenever the State asserts
its power to enforce it.” Keystone Bituminous, 480 U.S. at 491-92 (citations and emphasis
omitted). Secondly,

           one of the State’s primary ways of preserving the public weal is restricting the
           uses individuals can make of their property. While each of us is burdened
           somewhat by such restrictions, we, in turn, benefit greatly from the restrictions
           that are placed on others. . . . These restrictions are properly treated as part of the
           burden of common citizenship.

Id., 480 U.S. at 491. To conclude, regulations that promote important public interests may
significantly interfere with property to the extent that the regulation constitutes a “virtual taking,”
if the regulation shifts a public burden onto a private property owner.

        3.      The Fire Suppression Requirement is Probably not a Regulatory Taking, Because the
                Private Benefit Outweighs the Public Burden.

Because of the complexity of the economic factors involved this Opinion cannot fully determine
whether the Fire Suppression Requirement constitutes a “virtual taking.” There is a possibility
that the requirement constitutes such a substantial interference with Deepwater’s property rights,
because of the extraordinarily high cost to construct the required fire suppression system.
However, the analytical framework developed to evaluate regulatory takings seems to support a
conclusion that the requirement does not constitute a “virtual taking,” despite the substantial
economic impact.

As a preliminary matter, the nature of the government regulation is not unusual, and is intended
to promote a legitimate governmental objective. The County is imposing the requirement
through regulation. The Fire Code has been adopted by both the County and the State of Utah,
and is required of all new construction. This requirement affects how new construction is
designed and used, and generally means additional costs for new buildings. As has already been




Advisory Opinion – Deepwater/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 17, 2010 – page 12 of 15 pages
discussed, the Fire Code promotes important public purposes, and local governments are within
their authority to require compliance. 27

However, the analysis does not end there. The culinary water system has a different impact than
residential uses, although it has an impact nevertheless. Deepwater proposes installing a pump
and presumably constructing a building for its equipment, along with piping and storage tanks.
Deepwater claims that “[w]ater systems do not create fire hazards.” See Letter from Paxton
Guymon, May 3, 2010, at 3. While underground pipes and storage tanks probably do not
constitute a great fire danger, the pump equipment and building do raise concerns about fire
hazards. It is not known what fire suppression would be required for the pumping equipment
and building. 28 The County so far has cited only the suppression requirements for residential
buildings, but has not provided information on what the Fire Code would require for culinary
water systems. A reasonable suppression requirement must be based on what the Fire Code
requires for that particular development. A culinary water system is much different than a
residential use, and the County cannot assume that both have identical fire suppression
requirements. The County must determine requirements for a water system rather than simply
impose residential requirements.

There has been no information submitted about whether the Fire Code allows for alternative fire
suppression systems. If there is a less-expensive alternative that satisfies the Fire Code’s
requirements for pumping facilities, the County should defer to that standard. Regardless of
which applicable standard is used, the burden on the property owner still must be compared to
the public need for the regulation.

It is recognized that compliance imposes an extremely large economic impact on the developer.
Deepwater states that the cost of a suppression system that satisfies the Fire Code requirements
would be at least $7 Million, substantially more than the investment they planned to put into the
proposed water system. This cost limits the ability of owners to use their property, and also
impacts the value of the property in Brighton Estates. In fact, it could be argued that such a high
cost effectively prohibits development of the Brighton Estates property. The analysis, however,
does not exclusively turn on the magnitude of the burden on the property owner. As was
discussed earlier, property use and development is subject to many kinds of regulation. Even
though such regulations usually increase the costs to property owners, they are not necessarily



27
   It is worth noting that the Fire Code does not prohibit land uses, as long as buildings comply with the Code.
Cases applying the Penn Central analysis often consider restrictions on land use. (For example, Penn Central dealt
with a local ordinance which prohibited construction of a skyscraper on the property, and Arnell v. Board of
Adjustment concerned a local ordinance prohibiting construction on steep slopes.) However, the analysis is the same
whether a land use is prohibited or merely regulated. See e.g., Hodel v. Virgina Surface Mining & Reclamation
Ass’n Inc., 452 U.S. 264 (1981) (Permit conditioned on reclamation of mining sites); Keystone Bituminous Coal
Ass’n v. DeBenedictis, 480 U.S. 470 (1987) (State regulation requiring that mine owners leave coal in place to
support surface lands); Lingle v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc., 544 U.S. 528 (2005) (Restrictions on lease agreements and
cap on rents).
28
   The County would also be justified in following other applicable building and electrical codes, to the extent that
those codes would apply to similar facilities.


Advisory Opinion – Deepwater/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 17, 2010 – page 13 of 15 pages
“virtual takings.” 29 The analysis instead considers the interference to the property owners’
interest in light of the public burden that is involved, and whether the property owner is being
asked to bear a cost that ought to be borne by the public.

The Fire Suppression Requirement benefits Deepwater, by protecting its investment in the
equipment, and minimizing losses due to fire. There is also a benefit to the public, by preventing
fires in a remote area. The question is whether the public benefit is so substantial that it
“outweighs” the private benefit, requiring compensation because Deepwater is being forced to
bear a cost that should be borne by the public. This comparison necessarily involves
Deepwater’s cost of compliance and the value of the public benefit.

Other than Deepwater’s estimate of $7 Million, there has been no other information submitted
pertaining to the public and private values of the Fire Suppression Requirement. The County
argues that the cost of fighting a fire in the Brighton Estates area would easily exceed $7 Million,
because of the difficulties in accessing such a remote area. However, even though the County’s
estimate may be accurate, it is not a suitable measure of the public benefit. The County must not
use “worst case scenarios” to gauge the public value of the Fire Suppression Requirement, or any
other regulation, for that matter. 30 An estimation of the public impacts, similar to the calculation
of an impact fee, is the most appropriate measure. 31

Even without a calculation of public impact, it appears that the Fire Suppression Requirement
does not pass a public burden onto Deepwater. It stands to reason that fire suppression benefits
the property owner more than the public, even if there is a general community benefit of
preventing or mitigating fire damage. Regulatory takings analysis following the Penn Central
Transportation factors does not envision partial compensation because a regulation benefits the
public in some way, along with a greater benefit to a property owner. Unless it can be shown
that the general public derives more benefit from the Fire Suppression Requirement than
Deepwater, it must be concluded that the Requirement does not constitute a “virtual taking” that
requires compensation.


29
   “[A]ll property . . . is held under the implied condition that the owner’s use of it shall not be injurious to the
community, . . . and the Takings Clause [does] not transform that principle to one that requires compensation
whenever the State asserts its power to enforce it.” Keystone Bituminous, 480 U.S. at 491-92.
30
   The County’s estimate actually argues in favor of the regulation being a regulatory taking. By saying that because
the cost of fighting a fire is so high new development must install costly fire suppression equipment, the County is
essentially imposing a public burden on new development. “[T]he purpose of the Takings Clause . . . is to prevent
the government from forcing some people alone to bear public burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be
borne by the public as a whole.” Diamond B-Y, 2004 UT App 135, ¶ 14, 91 P.3d at 846 (citation omitted). A more
appropriate measure of the public burden is similar to impact fee analysis.
31
   Impact fee analysis seeks a way to allocate the public and private costs of new development. See generally
Banberry Development Corp v. City of South Jordan, 631 P.2d 899 (Utah 1981); Call v. City of West Jordan, 606
P.2d 217 (Utah 1979); UTAH CODE ANN. §§ 11-36-101 to -501 (Cases and statute related to impact fees). A similar
analysis is appropriate for building and fire code regulations, because there may be both private and public benefits
involved. This Opinion does not suggest that a “formal” impact fee analysis be applied to building and fire code
regulation, only that impact fee principles may be adapted to determine the appropriate public and private benefits of
such regulations.


Advisory Opinion – Deepwater/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 17, 2010 – page 14 of 15 pages
                                              Conclusion
The Division of Drinking Water does not have authority to require installation of a fire
suppression system as a condition of approval of Deepwater’s culinary water system. The
Division of Drinking Water regulates water delivery systems, to ensure that water supplies are
safe, that delivery systems are adequate, and that watersheds are protected. The Division has no
statutory authority over fire protection. If a water delivery system includes capacity for fire
protection, the Division may include that consideration; however, it has no authority to impose
fire suppression on a system that is not intended for fire protection. The County has sufficient
authority to require compliance with fire and building codes. However, the County should
determine the fire suppression requirements applicable to Deepwater’s proposed culinary water
system, rather than simply applying the standard applicable to residential buildings.

The Fire Suppression Requirement may be validly imposed by the County on new development,
because it has been adopted by statute, and it serves a legitimate governmental interest.
However, even a regulation that serves a substantial government interest may amount to a
“virtual taking” if it frustrates a property owner’s investment-backed expectations of
development. The Fire Suppression Requirement does not constitute an exaction because it does
not require dedication of property for public use. Therefore, the requirement may be evaluated
using the factors identified by the U.S. Supreme Court in Penn Central Transportation and other
regulatory takings decisions.

A number of factors have been identified as relevant to such an analysis. The nature of the
government’s action and the purpose of the regulation are important. In addition, economic
impact of the regulation is relevant, particularly the extent of the interference on investment-
backed expectations. Ultimately, the question focuses on whether a private property owner is
being forced to bear a burden which should be borne by the public as a whole. This requires
weighing private and public interests.

Given the analytical framework established by the U.S. Supreme Court, it appears that the Fire
Suppression Requirement does not constitute an impermissible taking of Deepwater’s property
rights. Although the cost of compliance is high, the benefits to Deepwater seemingly outweigh
any public burden being imposed. There is a public benefit derived from the requirement, in the
form of preventing and mitigating fire damage. However, unless it can be shown that the public
benefit outweighs the private advantage of compliance, the property owner has not suffered a
taking, and the County may enforce the Fire Suppression Requirement.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Deepwater/Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 17, 2010 – page 15 of 15 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

           Thomas L. Low
           Wasatch County Attorney’s Office
           805 W 100 S
           Heber, Utah 84032

On this ___________ Day of June, 2010, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   GREG BELL
Lieutenant Governor



                                AMENDMENT AND CLARIFICATION
                                        OF ADVISORY OPINION


      Date:                                           August 25, 2010

      Requested by:                                   Deepwater Distribution Company, Inc.

      Local Government Entity:                        Wasatch County


                                                      Issues
      I.      What constitutes a public dedication?

      II.     Does Wasatch County have any basis or authority to require construction of a fire
              suppression system where the International Fire Code does not impose a fire suppression
              requirement on a culinary water system?



                                                  Summary
      This informal opinion addresses questions raised by Deepwater Distribution Company following
      the Advisory Opinion issued on June 17, 2010, and amends and clarifies that Advisory Opinion.

      Public dedication requires a showing of some intent to dedicate by the property owner. Only the
      private property owner can imply dedication. The public cannot take implied dedication of
      property without a manifestation of intent to dedicate by the property owner. If the public takes
      possession or control without dedication by the property owner, a taking has occurred.
      Accordingly, if the fire suppression facility is calculated only to serve the activities of
      Deepwater, and Deepwater does not manifest an intent to dedicate, then the system is the
      property of Deepwater, and the public cannot use the property without just compensation.
      Nevertheless, where the County requires dedication, or requires Deepwater to oversize its
      facilities beyond its own needs, it is an exaction, and the “rough proportionality” exactions
      analysis applies.
The International Fire Code contains provisions that appear to apply to the water system being
installed. In addition, there may be other authority outside of the Code that gives the County the
authority to impose fire suppression requirements upon the water system. However, those
requirements must be appropriate and reasonable in light of the activity and use of the property.



                             Revisions to Advisory Opinion
This Amendment and Clarification of Advisory Opinion, together with the Advisory Opinion
issued dated June 17, 2010 by this Office in this matter constitute the full Advisory Opinion on
this matter under Utah Code § 13-43-205. This Amendment and Clarification is not intended to
supersede the previous Advisory Opinion, which, together with this document, remains in full
force and effect.

Deepwater requested that the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman amend or reconsider the
June 17, 2010 Advisory Opinion in a letter it submitted on July 6, 2010 from its attorney Paxton
Guymon. Wasatch County, through Assistant County Attorney Kevin S. Thurman, submitted a
response on July 22, 2010. In addition, on July 15, 2010, The Utah Department of Environmental
Quality submitted a letter from Kenneth H. Bousfield, P.E.



                                         Background
In brief, Deepwater has proposed to construct a culinary water system to serve several properties
in the Brighton Estates area of Wasatch County. The County has required that Deepwater also
install a fire suppression system, which will cost much more than the culinary water system
itself. The County derives this requirement from the International Fire Code, which has been
adopted not only by the County, but by the State of Utah. The County argues that a fire
suppression system is necessary to help prevent fires and mitigate fire damage, but that no public
fire suppression system exists in Brighton Estates.

The County requires Deepwater to install a system capable of delivering at least 1,500 gallons
per minute for a minimum of two hours. This is based upon the Fire Code’s requirements for
residential buildings. However, Deepwater is not planning to construct a residential building, but
a culinary water system, which would consist of underground and aboveground facilities.

This Office issued a formal Advisory Opinion on June 17th, 2010. In its request to amend and
reconsider the Advisory Opinion, Deepwater requests clarification of the meaning of
“dedication” of property for purposes of the exactions analysis. Deepwater argues that if it is
required to install a system that would be used by Wasatch County, doing so would in fact be an
implied dedication. Deepwater further argues that the International Fire Code has no provision
requiring fire suppression for culinary water systems, and so therefore the County cannot require
any type of fire suppression system.



                                                2
                                                     Analysis
I.    Clarification of “Dedication.”

Deepwater points out that dedication of private property to public use may be implied or
inferred. Deepwater then appears to argue that, because the County will use the fire suppression
facilities to benefit other properties, an implied dedication has occurred, thus triggering an
exaction. Deepwater is correct that implied dedication is possible. However, the County’s intent
to use the facilities later to benefit other properties does not result in an implied dedication. An
implied dedication is only possible where the intent to dedicate is manifested by the property
owner. Where no intent to dedicate is shown, the property is private property. Where that
property is later used for a public purpose, a taking has occurred.

         a.       Dedication to Public Use Cannot Occur Unless the Owner Intends to Dedicate.

In support of its theory of implied dedication, Deepwater cites two Utah cases involving
dedication of private property for roadways. 1 Both of those cases find that implied dedication to
the public is possible, but state that “dedication rests primarily in the intent of the owner. There
must be a concession intentionally made by him, which may be proved by declarations or acts, or
may be inferred from circumstances.” Morris v. Blunt, 49 Utah 243, 249, 161 P. 1127, 1130
(Utah 1916). In other words, what may be implied or inferred is the owner’s intent to dedicate
property to the public. If the owner does not want the property dedicated to the public, and does
not manifest an intention to dedicate, then no dedication occurs. Dedication cannot be implied
simply because public use is possible or even likely. 2

It is the intent to dedicate, not possible public use, which determines whether private property
has been dedicated to public use. For example, private drives are not uncommon in Utah. Often,
these roadways are indistinguishable from public roads, and may be used extensively by the
public. Those roads remain privately owned, however, as long as the owner takes steps to
demonstrate that the roads are private. 3 As long as the owner’s intent is clear, even extensive
public use will not imply public dedication, and the road will remain private property. While it
remains private property, the property owner retains the right to restrict public access to the road.
Similarly, as long as the fire suppression system remains under the control of the property owner,
and no intent to dedicate is manifest, dedication cannot be presumed.

This aligns with constitutional takings law. The purpose of the Takings Clause is to prevent the
government from “forcing some people alone to bear public burdens which, in all fairness and
justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.” Diamond B-Y Ranches, 2004 UT App 135, ¶
14, 91 P.3d at 846 (quoting Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960). If property is
1
  William J. Lemp Brewing Co. v. P.J. Moran, Inc., 51 Utah 178, 169 P. 459 (1916); Morris v. Blunt, 49 Utah 243,
161 P. 1127 (Utah 1916).
2
  If the owner permits (or does not stop) public use for a period of time, an intent to dedicate may be implied.
Section 72-5-104 of the Utah Code provides that a roadway on private property becomes dedicated to the public if it
is used continuously by the public for at least ten years. The owner’s intent to dedicate is implied because the public
use is allowed for an extended period of time.
3
  See e.g., Town of Leeds v. Prisbrey, 2008 UT 11, ¶ 7, 179 P.3d 757, 760 (a “ceremonial” road closure was sufficient
to interrupt the 10-year period provided in § 72-5-104, demonstrating that the property owner did not intend to
dedicate the roadway to the public.)

                                                          3
privately owned, the owner of that property should be able to control whether the property is
dedicated to public use. The government should not simply be able to assume that the property
has been dedicated. If property is taken for public use by the government, without authorization
from the Owner, then it is done in violation of the constitutional Takings Clause of the Utah and
U.S. Constitutions. Just compensation is then due.

       b.      County Requirements Will Trigger Dedication.

If the County requires that the suppression system be made available to other properties, or if the
County requires that the property owner oversize the system beyond what is needed, then the
system (or the oversized portion) would be expressly dedicated to the public. In that case, it
would be considered an exaction, and the “rough proportionality” exaction analysis would apply.

The County indicates that its fire suppression requirement would not be required to be used by
other properties, and is sized only to respond to the activities and needs of Deepwater. Assuming
that is true, then those facilities will be the private property of Deepwater and will not be
available for use by the County without just compensation.

The County points out that at this stage, it is unclear whether Deepwater’s system would be used
to service more properties than Deepwater’s. If that is the case, it is assumed that the County is
not requiring Deepwater to oversize or dedicate any fire suppression facilities to the public.
Deepwater will therefore own a private fire suppression facility, unavailable for public use unless
Deepwater manifests an intent to permit public use. In the future, if it becomes necessary that the
system serve the public, then the County and Deepwater can then make the proper arrangements
to facilitate that.

II.   The Development is Subject to the Fire Code, as Administered by the County.

Deepwater argues that the International Fire Code does not impose any fire suppression
requirements on a culinary water system. Accordingly, Deepwater posits, there is no basis or
authority for requiring construction of a fire suppression system as a condition for approval of
the proposed culinary water system. The County responds to that argument by stating that the
County is not only governed by the International Fire Code, but the Police Power also gives the
County authority to establish fire suppression standards where the International Fire Code is
silent on the issue.

Upon review of the International Fire Code, there appears to be many provisions that may apply
to the activities of Deepwater. For example, there appears to be provisions in the International
Fire Code that apply above-ground buildings containing electrical and mechanical systems. See
International Fire Code, Chapter 6. Assuming Deepwater would have above-ground buildings
and improvements containing electrical or mechanical systems (i.e. for a pump), those provisions
may apply. There are also restrictions that apply to construction activities, “including those in
underground locations.” See International Fire Code, Section 1401.1. Other sections and
provisions may apply. In addition, the International Fire Code, grants the local fire official fairly




                                                 4
wide latitude to interpret and apply its provisions. Accordingly, the International Fire Code
applies. 4

Furthermore, there may indeed be other authority under which the County can impose fire
suppression requirements upon Deepwater, including the police power to insure the health,
safety, and welfare of citizens. Thus, the County can impose fire suppression restrictions upon
Deepwater. However, as stated in the original Advisory Opinion, and reaffirmed above, the
County may not impose restrictions beyond those adequate to respond to the activities and needs
of Deepwater’s culinary water system. It appears that Deepwater’s only activity at the property is
construction and operation of a culinary water system. Much of it will be buried underground,
presumably greatly reducing the risk of fire. It will be a water delivery system, rather than a
system to deliver some combustible material. It will be smaller than a typical home, and not
permanently occupied. The appropriate approach by the County would be to review the plans and
intentions of Deepwater, and upon review thereof, determine Deepwater’s fire suppression needs.
Simply applying the residential fire suppression requirement on an unoccupied, nonresidential
use that is primarily underground is patently inappropriate. In order to avoid a taking, the County
must review Deepwater’s plans, and impose only those fire suppression requirements necessary
to respond to Deepwater’s activities.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




4
  This is not to say that the particular conditions imposed upon Deepwater by the County are valid, or are justified in
the International Fire Code. However, it cannot be said that there are no restrictions therein that apply to Deepwater.




                                                          5
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

           Thomas L. Low
           Wasatch County Attorney’s Office
           805 W 100 S
           Heber, Utah 84032

On this ___________ Day of August, 2010, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
