                     Advisory Opinion #31
                        Parties: Ivory Development, LLC and City of Draper
                                        Issued: February 28, 2008

                                         TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      D: Exactions on Development
                      R(vii): Other Topics (Development Bonds)

Warranty bonds are development exactions, and they are subject to rough
proportionality analysis. It is unjust to force Developer to pay for damage caused
by normal use simply because it occurred within the warranty period, when, at any
other time, the damages would otherwise be borne by the public. A subdivision
bond might be enforceable under contract law because Developer voluntarily
entered into the agreement.
NOTE: Since this Opinion was issued, new provisions of the Utah Code were
adopted which govern warranty bonds.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                               State of Utah
                               Department of Commerce
 JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
        Governor
                               OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   GARY R. HERBERT
   Lieutenant Governor

                                                             ADVISORY OPINION

            Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                 Ivory Development, LLC
                                                                           by Kevin Anderson, Attorney

            Local Government Entity:                                       Draper City

            Applicant for the Land Use Approval:                           Ivory Development, LLC

            Project:                                                       Residential Subdivision

            Date of this Advisory Opinion:                                 February 28, 2008

            Opinion Authored By:                                           Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney, Office of the Property
                                                                           Rights Ombudsman

                                                                           Issues
            May a local government require security for completion of public improvements and also require
            a developer to repair any damage to public improvements during the warranty period of a
            development bond, regardless of the cause of the damage?

                                                                        Summary
            The City’s requirement that a developer provide security to ensure completion of public
            improvements and warrant those improvements against damage is a valid condition under § 10-
            9a-509(e). That requirement is also an exaction, because it is required in order to obtain
            approval for a subdivision. It must therefore be analyzed using the “Nollan/Dolan” rough
            proportionality test found in § 10-9a-508(1). There is an essential link between the security and
            warranty requirement and the City’s legitimate interest that public improvements be properly
            installed. The warranty/repair requirement must also meet the “rough proportionality” prong of
            § 10-9a-508(1)(b). Each damage repair request must be shown to be roughly proportional to the
            impact of the subdivision. The City may require repairs to damage caused by the developer, or
            which is attributable to a design or construction flaw, but not for damage resulting from normal
            wear, or which is not caused by the developer. However, the City and a developer may enter an
            agreement whereby the developer agrees to repair all damage.




160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
                                            Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of §13-43-205 of the Utah
Code. The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from Ivory Development, LLC on December
13, 2007. A letter with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return receipt requested,
to Kathy Montoya, Draper City Recorder, at 1020 E. Pioneer Rd., Draper, Utah 84020. The
return receipt was signed and was received on December 20, 2007, indicating that the City had
received it. A response was received from Draper City on January 9, 2008.


                                           Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

   1.      Request for an Advisory Opinion received December 13, 2007 by the Office of the
           Property Rights Ombudsman, prepared by Kevin Anderson attorney for Ivory
           Development, LLC, including exhibits.
   2.      Response letter from Doug Ahlstrom, Draper City Attorney, received January 9, 2008.

                                    Statutes and Ordinances

   1.       Sections 10-9a-508 and -509 of the Utah Code.
   2.       Section 17-4-070 of the Draper City Code.


                                         Background
In the fall of 2004, Ivory Development obtained approval to begin development of a residential
subdivision which it called “Bellevue.” Before construction began, Ivory entered into an
Improvement Agreement with the City. Prior to final plat approval, Draper City requires
developers to execute a bond agreement, to “insure completion of all improvements required to
be installed in the subdivision.” Draper City Code, § 17-4-070(a). The amount of the bond or
security must be at least 110% of the estimated costs to install the improvements. Id. § 17-4-
070(a)(5). Upon completion of the improvements, most of the bond would be released, with a
portion maintained for an additional 18 months. During this period (the “warranty period”), the
developer would guarantee the improvements against “any damage arising from any cause and
from any defect in design or construction.” Id. § 17-4-070(a)(8). The developer would also be
obligated to “promptly repair” any damage. Id.

The Improvement Agreement executed by Ivory and the City reflects the language and
requirements of § 17-4-070. The escrow amount required for the Agreement was $266,037.25.
Ivory provided satisfactory proof that an escrow account had been established that met the City’s
requirements. The Agreement provided that the City was authorized to access the funds in the
account if Ivory was unable to complete the improvements. 1 The Agreement also provided that
most of the obligation would be released upon completion of the improvements, with the final
10% remaining as a guarantee during the warranty period. The Agreement was signed in
November of 2004.

Ivory began construction of the Bellevue Subdivision, and completed the improvements by the
summer of 2005. On September 2, 2005, the City accepted the improvements, and the 18-month
warranty period began on August 30 of that year. The City also released all but 10% of the
escrow account, or about $80,800.00. The warranty period expired on February 28, 2007.
During the warranty period, the City identified damage to the improvements, and Ivory
conducted repairs. In February of 2007, shortly before the warranty period was to expire, the
City presented Ivory with a “punchlist” of repairs to damage in the Bellevue Subdivision.
According to Ivory, the City also required that at least some of the roadways be repaved or sealed
before the City would release the escrow obligation. This requirement does not appear to be
based on a need to repair damage to the roads.

Ivory states that some of the repairs requested by the City are excessive and burdensome. They
point to minor scratches and pockmarks, most of which, in Ivory’s view, have resulted from
normal use, and are not indicative of inferior materials or craftsmanship. Ivory acknowledges
that some damage is tied to the construction (for example, a collapse in a roadway caused by soil
settling) and has taken steps to repair those problems. Ivory also states that at one point, the City
Manager agreed that the City had “overreached” the scope of its authority, with respect to some
of the repair requests. Although the City modified its requests somewhat, the latest repair
punchlist, dated October 1, 2007, constituted six pages.

The City states that its requests are reasonable, that it has eliminated trivial repairs from its
requests, and that the punchlists identify materially consequential damage dating from the
warranty period during which Ivory agreed to provide repairs.




1
    The Agreement provided a 10-day notice to Ivory if the improvements were not completed as specified.
                                                       Analysis

I.         The City’s Requirement That Developers Provide Security to Ensure
           Completion of Public Improvements is a Valid Condition.

The Utah Code requires that all conditions on development must be expressed at the time a land
use application is approved.

           A municipality may not impose on a holder of an issued land use permit a
           requirement that is not expressed:

              (i) in the land use permit or in documents on which the land use permit is
           based; or

                (ii) in [chapter 10-9a] or the municipality's ordinances.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(e). 2 This section restricts a local government from imposing
unannounced requirements or conditions, and it helps ensure certainty in applications and
approvals.

Subdivision or development bonds are valid means to guarantee that public improvements will
be built when new development is approved. Local governments require bonds (or some form of
surety) to ensure that public improvements will be completed. The bond amount is determined
by the estimated costs of unfinished public improvements. If a developer is unable to finish such
improvements as streets or water systems, the bond furnishes money for completion. Draper
properly required the Improvement Agreement as a condition on Ivory’s subdivision, because the
surety requirement is expressed in § 17-4-070 of the City’s ordinances, and the specific
requirements are included in the Improvement Agreement.

II.        The City’s Security Requirement is an Exaction.

The City’s security requirement serves two purposes: (1) it guarantees a source of funds to finish
public improvements if a builder is unable to complete them; and (2) it requires a warranty
against damage or improper construction. The first purpose of the security requirement is not in
dispute. Ivory completed the public improvements to the City’s satisfaction, so there was no
need to access the funds. Ivory’s dispute stems from the second aspect of the requirement, and
the City’s demands for repairs which Ivory believes exceed the City’s authority, and the purposes
of the security requirement. As is explained more detail below, the security and warranty
requirements must be evaluated as exactions.




2
    A parallel provision, applicable to counties, is found at § 17-27a-508 of the Utah Code.
        A.       The Security Requirement is an Exaction, and must Satisfy both Parts of Section
                 10-9a-508.

The City’s requirement that a developer provide security to ensure completion of public
improvements constitutes an exaction under Utah Law. “Exactions are conditions imposed by
governmental entities on developers for the issuance of a building permit or subdivision plat
approval.” B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 34, 128 P.3d 1161,
1169. Exactions include mandatory dedication of property, as well as fees. Id. Draper’s security
requirement is an exaction, because a bond or other surety is required before the City will grant
approval of a final subdivision plat.

In 2005, the Utah Legislature enacted § 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code, which authorizes counties
to impose exactions on new development, and also prescribes limits on that authority:

        A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in
        a land use application provided that:

        (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
        exaction; and

        (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
        impact of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-508(1). 3 The Utah Supreme Court observed that the language of this
statute was borrowed directly from the U.S. Supreme Court analyses in Nollan v. California
Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825, 107 S.Ct. 3141 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374,
114 S.Ct. 2309 (1994). See B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 41, 128 P.2d at 1170. In those two cases, the
Supreme Court promulgated rules for determining when an exaction is valid under the federal
constitution’s Takings Clause. 4 This has come to be known as the Nollan/Dolan “rough
proportionality” test, and that two-part analysis is reflected in § 10-9a-508.

The B.A.M. decision indicates that the Utah Supreme Court—as well as Utah Legislature—
agrees that any condition imposed on development approval is an “exaction,” whether the local
government requires dedication of a property right or not. See B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 46, 128 P.3d
at 1171. It should be noted that in Monterey v. Del Monte Dunes at Monterey, LTD, the United
States Supreme Court held that the “Nollan/Dolan” rough proportionality analysis did not extend
exactions that did not require dedications of property. Del Monte Dunes, 526 U.S. 687, 703, 119
S.Ct. 1624, 1635 (1999). However, state courts have applied the rough proportionality test to
“non-dedicatory” exactions, such as fees and payments for improvements. 5 Based on the
3
  There is a corresponding statute applicable to counties found at § 17-27a-507 of the Utah Code.
4
  See U.S. Const., amend V. The Supreme Court has interpreted the Takings Clause as limiting a government’s
ability to impose conditions on development. Furthermore, “[t]he Utah Constitution reinforces the protection of
private property against uncompensated governmental takings . . ..” B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 31, 128 P.3d at 1168. See
also Utah Const. art. I, § 22.
5
  See e.g., Town of Flower Mound v. Stafford Estates LP, 135 S.W.3d 620 (Tex. 2004) (requirement that developer
pay for improvements to streets not directly serving subdivision). The Texas Supreme Court cited to “non-
dedicatory” cases from California, Illinois, and Ohio. See also Town of Flower Mound v. Stafford Estates, LP, 71
S.W.3d 18 (Ct. App. Tex. 2002)(lower court decision upheld by supreme court).
language in B.A.M., as well as § 10-9a-508, it appears that the rough proportionality test applies
to all conditions imposed on new development, including Draper’s security requirement. Thus,
in order to be valid, the City’s security requirement must meet both parts of § 10-9a-508(1).

        B.       The City’s Security Requirement Satisfies Section 10-9a-508(1)(a), Because There
                 is a Link Between the Requirement and a Legitimate Governmental Interest.

The City has a legitimate interest in seeing that public improvements are completed properly. A
requirement that a developer provide a source of funding for completion of improvements
supports that objective, and is within the power of local governments. Although development or
subdivision bonds are not specifically authorized in the current Utah Code, they are not
prohibited either. In addition, a period during which the builder warrants construction is another
reasonable means of guaranteeing that the public improvements will be properly constructed.
There is thus an essential link between requiring a developer to provide some form of security
for completion of improvements and the legitimate governmental objective of having the
improvements completed, as well as the requirement that developers warrant or guarantee the
improvements for a period of time. 6

Moreover, there is also an essential link between the City’s requirement that the developer repair
damage and the legitimate governmental objective that public improvements be constructed
properly and maintained in a good condition. The “essential link” prong of § 10-9a-508(1)(a)
requires a connection, or “nexus,” between the requirement imposed by the government and a
legitimate governmental objective. An essential link is established if the requirement or exaction
promotes a governmental objective. See Nollan, 483 U.S. at 837. 7 The City’s requirement
satisfies this prong, because there is an essential link between the requirement and the City’s
legitimate objective.

        C.       The City’s Requirement that Damage be Repaired by the Developer must be
                 Evaluated Under the “Rough Proportionality” Aspect of § 10-9a-508(1)(b).

In order to satisfy § 10-9a-508(1)(b), the City’s requirement that a developer repair any and all
damage must be shown to be roughly proportional to the impact of the development. Once an
essential link between the government’s requirement and a legitimate objective has been
established, the analysis turns to whether the exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature
and extent, to the impact of the development. Thus, if the City’s request for repair is not
proportionate to the impact of the subdivision, it is not a valid exaction. 8 The analysis should
take into account not only the cost of the proposed repair in relation to the impact of the
subdivision, but also the cause of the damage, and whether the damage is attributable to a
construction flaw or other activity unrelated to construction defects or acts by the developer.


6
  Draper City has chosen a warranty period of 18 months. The length of the warranty period is not at issue in this
Opinion.
7
  The “rough proportionality” prong of the test weighs the impact of project for which approval has been sought
against the nature and extent of the proposed exaction. See B.A.M., 2006 UT 2, ¶¶ 39-40, 128 P.3d at 1169-70.
8
  It appears that the surety requirement also satisfies the “rough proportionality” prong, because the amount of the
surety is based on the estimated costs of the improvements. The focus of this Opinion concerns the City’s
requirement that the developer repair any damage to the improvements during the warranty period.
This analysis will guard against a government using its police power unfairly to leverage
concessions and benefits to which it is not entitled. 9

Although the language of the City’s ordinance requires developers to repair “any damage arising
from any cause and from any defect in design or construction,” the ordinance does not excuse the
City from analysis under the Takings Clause. The City cannot use its ordinance to justify
exactions which are improper. “[T]he government can hardly argue that it is entitled to exact
more from developers than is reasonably due [based on] the impact of [the] development.”
Flower Mound, 135 S.W.3d at 639. The U.S. Supreme Court agreed that proportionality
“animates” the Takings Clause: “The Fifth Amendment’s guarantee . . . was designed to bar the
Government from forcing some people alone to bear public burdens which, in all fairness and
justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.” Del Monte Dunes, 526 U.S. at 703, 119 S.Ct.
at 1635 (quoting Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49, 80 S.Ct. 1563, 1569 (1960)). 10

Applying the rough proportionality analysis protects private developers from exactions that, in
all fairness and justice, should be assumed by the public. It is fair and just that the public assume
the responsibility for routine damage and normal wear on public improvements that have been
accepted and approved by a government entity, rather than the developer who installed the
improvements. It is also fair and just that the developer assume responsibility for damage
attributable to its activity, or due to flaws in design, construction, or materials. It is unfair and
unjust to force a builder to pay for damage caused by normal wear or by circumstances beyond
the developer’s control simply because it occurred within a certain time period, when the same
damage would be borne by the public at large at any other time.

The analysis in this Opinion does not prohibit a local government from requiring a developer to
guarantee construction work or to repair damage, provided the repair requests bear a reasonable
relationship to the development activity. 11 It is the opinion of the Office of the Property Rights
Ombudsman that a local government may require a builder or developer to warrant construction
of public improvements; and that local governments may require repairs to damage to the
improvements caused by the developer, or for damage attributable to flaws in the design,
construction, or materials. These requests for repairs are bear a reasonable relationship to the
impact of the development. On the other hand, a requirement that a single developer undertake
repairs for damage caused by others, or for normal wear and tear, are improper exactions that
exceed a local government’s authority. Such requests are not roughly proportional to the impact
of the development, and force developers to bear costs and responsibilities that, in all fairness
and justice, ought to be borne by the public at large.



9
  See Flower Mound, 135 S.W.3d at 639.
10
   As noted above, the Supreme Court does not apply the “Rough Proportionality” analysis to non-dedicatory
exactions, but the Utah Code (and Utah caselaw) does. Cf. Village of Norwood v. Baker, 172 U.S. 269, 279, 19 S.Ct.
187, 191 (1898): “[T]he exaction from the owner of private property of the cost of a public improvement in
substantial excess of the special benefits accruing to him is, to the extent of such excess, a taking under the guise of
taxation of private property for public use without compensation.”
11
   The Dolan court equated the “rough proportionality” test with the “reasonable relationship” test that had been
applied by some states, including Utah. See Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391, 114 S.Ct. at 2319 (citing Call v. West Jordan,
606 P.2d 217 (Utah 1979)).
Along the same lines, requiring a new road overlay or slurry seal is also an exaction that must
meet § 10-9a-508(1). There is an essential link between the overlay requirement and the City’s
legitimate interest in safe roadways. However, there has been no showing that the repaving or
resealing the roadways is roughly proportional to the impact of the subdivision. There has been
no showing that repaving is necessary due to a defect in construction, or is required because of
damage caused by the developer. Unless there is such a showing, the City cannot require the
overlay.

       D.      The Improvement Agreement is a Valid Contract, and the City is Entitled to
               Enforce its Provisions.

Notwithstanding the analysis of this Opinion, government entities may contract with private
parties to modify the exchange of property rights or other benefits that would ordinarily be
governed by an exaction or takings analysis. Such agreements are not prohibited. Draper City
and Ivory entered the Improvement Agreement voluntarily and knowingly. Pursuant to that
Agreement, Ivory is bound to repair “all damage arising from any cause” during the 18-month
Warranty Period. An analysis of whether the Improvement Agreement is a valid contract, what
items on the punchlist are the result of “damage,” and to what extent the City may enforce its
terms is beyond the scope of this Opinion, and is also outside the statutory mandate of the Office
of the Property Rights Ombudsman.


                                          Conclusion
The City may require that a developer provide security as a means of ensuring public
improvements are installed as proposed. Section 10-9a-509(e) provides that a municipality may
impose conditions on subdivisions, if those conditions are expressed in state law, local
ordinances, or in documents upon which a permit is based. The bond requirement is a valid
condition that is provided in the City’s ordinances, and was also expressed in the Improvement
Agreement signed by City and Ivory.

The City’s security requirement is an exaction subject to the “rough proportionality” analysis of
§ 10-9a-508(1). It is an exaction because it is a condition imposed in order to obtain approval for
a subdivision. The security requirement meets the “essential link” prong, because there is a link
between the requirement and the City’s legitimate interest that the public improvements be
installed correctly. The warranty period and repair of damage requirements are also linked to the
City’s legitimate interests.

Requiring a developer to post security and warrant improvements for a period of time appears to
meet the second prong of § 10-9a-508(1)(b), or the “rough proportionality” test. The amount of
the security is based on the estimated costs of the public improvements, and the warranty period
is a reasonable period to establish that the improvements have been constructed properly.

Requiring a developer to undertake repairs to public improvements must also meet the “rough
proportionality” prong. The Takings Clauses of the Federal and Utah State Constitutions prohibit
the government from forcing some to bear costs and burdens which ought to be borne by the
public as a whole. The City may require repairs for damage arising during the warranty period,
but it must also establish that the repairs are roughly proportional, both in nature and extent, to
the impact of the subdivision. Requests to repair damage not caused by Ivory, or attributable to a
construction defect, are improper exactions, and exceed the City’s authority.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, §13-43-205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

U.C.A. §13-43-206(10)(b) requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to the government
entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with U.C.A. §63-30d-401 (Notices Filed
Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Kathy Montoya, City Recorder
              Draper City
              1020 E. Pioneer Road
              Draper, UT 84020

On this ___________ Day of February, 2008, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
