                     Advisory Opinion #22
                        Parties: John Diamond and the City of West Point
                                         Issued: October 8, 2007

                                          TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      K: Compliance with Mandatory Land Use Ordinances
                      R(ii): Other Topics (Subdivision Plat Approval)

Cities are required to substantially comply with statutory annexation procedures.
Although City ordinances regulate the placement of new feedlots near homes,
they do not regulate the placement of new homes near feedlots. Past actions may
be strong evidence that a similar action should be taken, but they do not control
future cases.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                                      State of Utah
                                      Department of Commerce
  JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
                                      OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor



                                                             ADVISORY OPINION
                                 Annexation of Land Near Agricultural Protection Area

            Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                 John Diamond

            Local Government Entity:                                       West Point City

            Project:                                                       Annexation of Property Into West Point City and a
                                                                           Subdivision Proposed on the Annexed Parcel

            Opinion Authored By:                                           Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney
                                                                           Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

            Date of this Advisory Opinion:                                 October 8, 2007


                                                                            Issues

                  I.        Did West Point City follow proper procedures when it annexed a 25 acre parcel in
                            September of 2006?

                  II.       Is West Point City barred from approving a subdivision located near an existing
                            agricultural and commercial hunting operation?

                  III.      Is West Point City bound to impose conditions on the proposed subdivision which are
                            similar to conditions imposed on a subdivision also located near a commercial
                            hunting operation?

                                                         Summary of Advisory Opinion

            The City followed proper procedures when it annexed a 25 acre parcel. Proper notice was given,
            and the City approved the petition as provided in Utah law. The City also properly rezoned the
            parcel at the time of the annexation.

            Concerns about the proposed subdivision’s impact on adjoining properties should be addressed
            through the approval process, or through agreements between property owners, and do not
            prohibit the subdivision from being approved. Furthermore, the subdivision is not a
            nonconforming use, nor is the agricultural/hunting operation a nonconforming use due to the


160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
placement of the subdivision. Any issues related to wetlands should be resolved through the
appropriate state and federal agencies.

Finally, the City’s past practices and approvals do not bind it to any actions or approvals, even in
similar situations. Every parcel is unique, and every application is unique. Past actions may be
persuasive arguments in favor of the same action in a similar situation, but do not require any
particular action or approval.

                                              Review

A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of U.C.A. §13-43-205. An
advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or
other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such
a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from John Diamond on July 30, 2007. As
provided in statute, a letter with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return receipt
requested, to Richard Davis, City Manager, West Point City, at 3200 W. 300 North, West Point,
Utah 84015. The return receipt was signed and was received on August 15, 2007, indicating that
it had been received by the City. A response from the City was received on August 22, 2007.

                                             Evidence

The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

   1.      Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted John W. Diamond, and received by the
           Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, July 30, 2007.
   2.      Response submitted on behalf of West Point City, received by the Office of the
           Property Rights Ombudsman, August 22, 2007.


                                           Background

John Diamond owns approximately 200 acres of agricultural land near West Point City, in Davis
County, Utah. His property is not within the boundaries of West Point. This property is
designated as an agricultural protection area. Mr. Diamond uses the property for cattle grazing, a
livestock feedlot, and a commercial hunting area. His property extends to the Great Salt Lake on
the west. There are federally-designated wetlands in the area near the lake. Mr. Diamond’s
property is outside of the City limits, and is subject to regulation by the Davis County Code. 1

In 2006, the owner of a 25 acre parcel which bordered on Mr. Diamond’s property submitted a
petition to the City, asking that the parcel be annexed into the City’s boundaries. This petition
did not attempt to annex Mr. Diamond’s property. On September 5, 2006, Mr. Diamond attended
a meeting of the West Point City Council, and spoke against the annexation proposal. Mr.
Diamond raised several issues, including the proximity of the cattle operation and hunting club,
the presence of wetlands, and issues related to drainage of storm water. The City approved the
annexation petition, and, as part of the approval, designated the parcel’s zoning as “R-1.”
According to the City, the R-1 zone allows for single-family residences, and anticipates a
maximum density of 2.2 units per acre.

Mr. Diamond states that the City did not notify him of the pending annexation, and that he found
out from a neighbor. The City states that it published notice of the meeting in the Standard
Examiner newspaper, and complied with the notice provisions of state law.

The owner of the annexed parcel proposed that the parcel be subdivided into 30 lots. A portion
of the subdivision would be located within 300 feet of Mr. Diamond’s property, and some lots
would be located approximately 30 feet from Mr. Diamond’s feedlot. Mr. Diamond has also
expressed concern over drainage from residential areas onto his property, as well as the impact of
that drainage on wetland areas near the Great Salt Lake.

In its response, the City submitted an agreement between Mr. Diamond and the property
developer, signed in July of 2007. In this agreement, the developer agreed to construct a berm
and fence between the homes and Mr. Diamond’s property, and Mr. Diamond granted an
easement to allow drainage through his property.



                                                     Analysis

    I.       West Point City Followed Correct Procedures When it Annexed and Rezoned the
             25 Acre Parcel.

The City followed proper procedures when it annexed the 25 acre parcel. Annexation of territory
into a municipality is governed by §§ 10-2-401 through -428 of the Utah Code. The annexation
process usually begins by filing a petition with the municipality. The petition must be signed by
persons representing a majority of the land owners within the area sought to be annexed,
provided that the signatures also represent at least 1/3 of the land value within the area. 2 When a
petition is filed, the municipal legislative body first decides to accept or reject the petition. 3 If

1
  There has been no allegation that Mr. Diamond’s agricultural/hunting operation violates Davis County zoning
regulations. His property is an Agricultural Protection Area, which was approved by the County.
2
  UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-2-403(3)(b).
3
  Id., § 10-2-405(1). Acceptance at this point does not mean the annexation is approved. The legislative body
simply determines whether or not it wants to pursue the proposal. In a “county of the first class,” a notice of intent
to annex is filed first. Copies of that notice must also be sent to neighboring property owners. Since Davis County
the petition is accepted, it is reviewed to determine compliance with state law. If it does, the
municipality must publish notice of the proposal in a newspaper of general circulation, and mail
the notice to certain “affected entities”. 4

Any affected entity may formally protest the annexation, by filing a protest with the county
boundary commission within 30 days after receiving notice from the municipality.5 If no protest
is filed after the 30 day period, the municipality may proceed to a decision on the petition. If a
protest is filed, the municipality may either reject the petition or wait for a decision from the
county’s boundary commission. 6

If no protest is filed, the municipality must then schedule a public hearing on the matter. Notice
of this hearing must be published in newspaper of general circulation. Notice to individual
property owners is not required. 7 Following the public hearing, the municipal legislative body
may accept or reject the petition. If the petition is accepted, the territory is annexed into the
municipality. 8 The municipality may designate the zoning for territory that is annexed as part of
the ordinance approving the annexation. 9

West Point City properly followed the procedures established by the Utah Code when it annexed
the 25 acre parcel. “A city satisfies the statutory requirements [for annexation] through
‘substantial compliance’ with the statute” Szatkowski v. Bountiful City, 906 P.2d 902, 904 (Ct.
App. Utah 1995). The petition was submitted to the City by the property owner, Kip Cashmore.
Since he owned all of the property, his signature was sufficient to initiate the process. The City
notified all affected entities, which were given the opportunity to pursue a challenge to the
Boundary Commission. There was no protest filed by any affected entity, so the City scheduled
a public hearing on the proposal. Since Davis County is not a “county of the first class,” there is
no requirement that neighboring property owners be specifically notified of the proposed
annexation.

On September 5, 2006, the City held a public hearing on the proposed annexation. Mr. Diamond
was present, and expressed concerns about the proposal. Following the public hearing, the City
Council unanimously approved the annexation. The ordinance designated the zoning for the
annexed parcel as “R-1.” There does not appear to be any irregularity with the annexation

is not a county of the first class (See UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-50-501), mailed notice to adjoining property owners
was not required.
4
  Id., § 10-2-406. “Affected entities” includes the county in which the property is located, school districts and any
local districts whose service area includes the land proposed for annexation, and any other municipalities whose
boundaries are located within ½ mile of the proposed annexation. See id., § 10-2-401(1)(a). If there is no
“newspaper of general circulation” available, notice may be posted in conspicuous areas.
5
  Id., § 10-2-407. Each county is required to appoint a boundary commission.
6
  Id., § 10-2-407(3)(a). The boundary commission conducts a public hearing, and may approve, disapprove, or
modify a petition. See id., § 10-2-416. If the petition is approved, the municipality may approve the petition without
an additional public hearing. Id., § 10-2-408.
7
  Id., § 10-2-407(3)(b).
8
  Id.. § 10-2-425. The municipality must file documentation with the lieutenant governor’s office to finalize the
annexation.
9
  Id., § 10-9a-506. If the zoning is not designated at the time of the annexation, the land use in the annexed territory
“shall be compatible with surrounding uses.” Id., § 10-9a-506(b). After annexation, the zoning regulation of the
annexed territory may also be changed by following the same procedure for any zone change within the
municipality.
process, so the City substantially complied with the annexation statute. Furthermore,“the
determination of municipal boundaries is a legislative function.” Kearns-Tribune Corp. v. Salt
Lake County Comm’n, 2001 UT 55, ¶ 21, 28 P.3d 686, 691. The City thus had broad discretion
to make a decision on whether to annex the territory. See Szatkowski, 906 P.2d at 904.

   II.    City Ordinances Allow the Subdivision Proposed on the Annexed Parcel.

The ordinances of West Point City do not prohibit or restrict residential development on the
annexed parcel, even near an agricultural operation and hunting club. John Diamond, who
requested this Opinion, raised concerns about the new development being located close to his
property. Although the concerns raised by Mr. Diamond ought to be considered in the
subdivision approval process, there is nothing in the City’s ordinances that prohibits the
development.

     A.   Mr. Diamond’s Existing Feedlot Does not Prohibit Construction of New Homes on the
          Annexed Parcel.

The City’s ordinance regulating the placement of feedlots near residential neighborhoods does
not prevent the subdivision. Section 17-15-3 of the West Point City Code requires that all
feedlots be located at least 200 feet from any dwelling located on an adjacent lot. If the adjacent
lots are vacant, the feedlot cannot be located less than 30 feet from the property line. That
ordinance, however, regulates the placement of new feedlots, not the construction of new homes.
An existing feedlot does not prohibit the placement of new homes on an adjoining parcel. In
short, the feedlot on Mr. Diamond’s property does not prevent construction of dwellings on the
annexed parcel.

There remains the question as to whether Mr. Diamond would be allowed to expand or replace
his existing feedlot. Since his property is not located in West Point City, its ordinance
prohibiting a feedlot within 200 feet of a dwelling would not apply. Mr. Diamond’s property is
currently governed by the Davis County Code. Section 15.08.440 of that code requires that
feedlots be located at least 100 feet from a dwelling. See Davis County Code, § 15-08-440(G).
Since the exact placement of the new homes in relation to the feedlot is not known, this Opinion
cannot express any conclusions about the ability of Mr. Diamond to expand or replace his
feedlot.
      B.    Mr. Diamond’s Agricultural and Commercial Hunting Operations do not Prohibit
            Residential Development on the Annexed Parcel.

Nothing can be found in state law, or in the ordinances of West Point City or Davis County, that
restrict development of parcels adjoining agricultural activities or commercial hunting
operations. While there may be concerns about the wisdom or viability of constructing
residences near such activities, those concerns should be addressed through the approval process.
Imposing a ban on new construction near agricultural or hunting operations would stymie
development, and grant a handful of individual landowners undue power over land use. Mr.
Diamond may have legitimate concerns about a new subdivision adjoining his property and
impacting his operations, but there is no legal authority for an automatic ban on the new
development. Such a decision is within the discretion of the City to make whatever land use
decisions it feels are appropriate.

Mr. Diamond’s property is an Agricultural Protection Area, and he is entitled to the protections
granted such areas by §§ 17-41-101 through 406 of the Utah Code. Designating property as an
Agricultural Protection Area does not bar development on adjoining parcels, but the Utah Code
grants the property owner certain protections from nuisance lawsuits. In addition, the owner of
any new subdivision development near an Agricultural Protection Area must include a notice on
the subdivision plat that agricultural operations are being conducted in the vicinity. 10 The
subdivision on the annexed territory, which adjoins Mr. Diamond’s property, is subject to that
notice requirement.

      C.     The Proposed Subdivision is Not a Nonconforming Use Because of the Agricultural
             Operation; and the Subdivision Does not Make the Agricultural Operation a
             Nonconforming Use.

Approval of the subdivision near Mr. Diamond’s agricultural/hunting operation does not mean
that the subdivision is a nonconforming use, nor does the subdivision make Mr. Diamond’s
operation a nonconforming use. Since both the subdivision and Mr. Diamond’s operation are
lawful uses, neither one is a nonconforming use. 11 There is no reason to conclude that any new
development automatically causes adjoining land uses to become nonconforming. As was
discussed above, however, the Davis County Code may restrict expansion or replacement of Mr.
Diamond’s feedlot because of dwellings in the vicinity.

      D.     Any Wetland Concerns Should be Addressed to the Appropriate State and Federal
             Agencies.

Mr. Diamond has also raised concerns that the new subdivision may result in alteration or filling
of wetland areas near the Great Salt Lake. There appear to be federally-designated wetlands
along the lake shore, however, the Request for Advisory Opinion does not identify any specific
actions that might impact wetland areas. Any issues related to water drainage and wetlands

10
   See UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-41-403(3)(a). The statute requires that the notice be attached to the subdivision plat.
There is no requirement that individual purchasers receive any further notice.
11
   A nonconforming use is a use of land that was lawful when it began, but no longer complies with zoning
regulations, because of subsequent ordinance changes. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-103(24) (municipalities); §
17-27a-103(27) (counties). Neither the subdivision nor Mr. Diamond’s property meets that definition.
should be resolved through the appropriate state and federal agencies, and are beyond the scope
of this Opinion. 12

      III. Previous Approvals or Actions do not Bind West Point City to Future Approvals
           or Actions.

Mr. Diamond suggests that since the City required a “buffer zone” between a subdivision built
near another commercial hunting club, a similar buffer should be required between his property
and the subdivision proposed for the annexed parcel. However, past approvals do not necessarily
bind a City to similar actions in similar situations. Every parcel of property is unique, every
development is unique, and zoning authorities must have discretion to adopt regulations that are
deemed best to address each particular situation.

         It must be remembered that zoning is not a static thing which once established
         becomes set in concrete forever. . . . It is obvious that there must be some
         pliability so that in performing its function the [local government] may keep
         abreast of changing conditions as life courses onward and meet the varying needs
         of the growing [locality].

Naylor v. Salt Lake City Corp., 17 Utah 2d 300, 302, 410 P.2d 764, 766 (1966). Past actions
taken in similar circumstances may be strong evidence that the same action should taken, but
they do not force a local government to take the same action. 13 Furthermore, choosing a
reasonable, but alternative means to address a similar situation is not necessarily prohibited. 14

The argument that a local government is bound by its past approvals is an application of the
“zoning estoppel” doctrine. Zoning estoppel prevents a local government from denying an
application if the property owner has relied on a representation from the government.

         To invoke the doctrine [of zoning estoppel,] the [government entity] must have
         committed an act or omission upon which the developer could rely in good faith
         in making substantial changes in position or incurring extensive expenses. The
         action upon which the developer claims reliance must be of a clear, definite and
         affirmative nature.

Utah County v. Young, 615 P.2d 1265, 1267 (Utah 1980). Zoning estoppel requires that the
governmental action be “clear, definite and affirmative,” indicating an act that could be
interpreted as an approval or agreement. Simply identifying a past action in a similar situation is
not a “clear, definite and affirmative” approval of a proposed action. Thus, it cannot be said that


12
   Local governments may not designate any land as wetlands except for areas already designated by a federal
agency. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-521 (municipalities); § 17-27a-520 (counties).
13
   See, e.g. Cottonwood Heights Citizens Ass’n v. Board of Commissioners of Salt Lake County, 593 P.2d 138, 140
(Utah 1979) “The fact that a prior application has been denied should not preclude the Commission from granting a
later application if there has been a material change in circumstances.” (citations omitted).
14
   Bradley v. Payson City Corp. 2003 UT 16, ¶ 24, 70 P.3d 47, 54. “Though a municipality may have a myriad of
competing choices before it, the selection of one method of solving [a] problem in preference to another is entirely
within the discretion of the city; and does not, in and of itself evidence an abuse of discretion.” (internal quotations
omitted)
past actions bind or estop a local government to a similar action. 15 Past practices may be
persuasive arguments in favor of a similar action, but are not sufficient to bind the government
entity.

                                                Conclusion

There does not appear to be any irregularity in the procedure followed when West Point annexed
a 25 acre parcel. Proper notice was given, and the annexation petition was approved. The City
also properly designated the zoning for the annexed territory when the petition was approved. In
addition, the annexation was approved in September of 2006, so the time to file any appeal has
passed.

Any concerns about developing a residential subdivision near an agricultural/hunting operation
should be addressed through the approval process, and do not bar the subdivision. Legitimate
concerns about the impact of the subdivision are best resolved through reasonable conditions on
the development. It appears that Mr. Diamond and the developer of the subdivision have entered
an agreement that addresses some of these concerns. Finally, any issues over wetlands and
drainage from the subdivision should be resolved through the appropriate state and federal
agencies.

Prior approvals in similar circumstances do not automatically force a local government to take
similar actions. Every parcel is unique, and every application is unique. An action that is
appropriate in one situation may not be appropriate in another. Past practices may be persuasive
evidence in favor of a particular approval, but they do not bind a local government to take the
same action.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




15
  See e.g., Salt Lake County v. Kartchner, 552 P.2d 136 (Utah 1976) (County not estopped from enforcing setback
regulations, even though several properties in the same neighborhood violated the same regulation).
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, § 13-42-205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

       Richard L. Davis
       City Manager
       West Point City
       3200 W. 300 North
       West Point, UT 84015

On this ___________ Day of October, 2007, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
