                     Advisory Opinion #25
                      Parties: David & Heidi Stapel and Cottonwood Heights
                                       Issued: November 29, 2007

                                        TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      B: Conditional Use Applications

A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are proposed, or can
be imposed, to mitigate the reasonable anticipated detrimental effects of the
proposed use in accordance with applicable standards.” Standards for conditional
uses must be set forth in ordinances, not established at the time of application.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                                      State of Utah
                                      Department of Commerce
  JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
                                      OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor



                                                         ADVISORY OPINION
                                                       (REVISED AND RESTATED)

                                    Conditional Use Approvals for Short-Term Rentals

            Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                 David & Heidi Stapel

            Local Government Entity:                                       Cottonwood Heights

            Project:                                                       Conditional Use Approvals for Short-Term Rentals

            Opinion Authored By:                                           Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney
                                                                           Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

            Date of this Revised Advisory Opinion:                         November 29, 2007


                                                                            Issue
            May the City of Cottonwood Heights reject a conditional use application when a similar
            application was accepted?

                                                      Summary of Advisory Opinion
            Both conditional use applications should have been approved, subject to the conditions set forth
            in the City’s ordinances. Utah Law requires approval of an application for a conditional use
            permit if reasonable conditions mitigate negative impacts of the use. Denying an application on
            the basis of “facial noncompliance” is prohibited by § 10-9a-507 of the Utah Code, and is
            inconsistent with the purposes of conditional uses.

                                                                          Review
            A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
            decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Utah Code Ann. § 13-43-
            205. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
            administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
            application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is


160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was received from David and Heidi Stapel on October 16,
2007. As provided in statute, a letter with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return
receipt requested, to Liane Stillman, City Manager, at 1265 Fort Union Blvd., Cottonwood
Heights, Utah 84047. The return receipt was signed and was received on October 22, 2007,
indicating that it had been received by the City. A response on behalf of the City was submitted
on October 25, 2007. The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman issued an Advisory Opinion
on November 14, 2007. On November 15, 2007, W. Shane Topham, attorney for the City of
Cottonwood Heights, submitted a letter detailing some factual inaccuracies in the previous
Advisory Opinion, and requesting that the Advisory Opinion be revised. On November 20, 2007,
Todd Barfuss, attorney for the Stapels, confirmed the inaccuracy of some facts contained in the
original Advisory Opinion and submitted a letter dated October 22, 2007 to the Cottonwood
Heights Board of Adjustment, presenting the Stapels’ version of the facts. On November 26,
2007, Shane Topham submitted a letter objecting to the Ombudsman Office’s informal review of
the contractual aspect of this dispute.

                                                             Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.        Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by David and Heidi Stapel, and received
               by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, October 16, 2007.
     2.        Response submitted on behalf of the City by Wm. Shane Topham of Callister,
               Nebeker, and McCullough, dated October 25, 2007.
     3.        Chapter 19.89 of the Cottonwood Heights Code of Ordinances, governing short-term
               rentals.
     4.        Section 19.76.320 of the Cottonwood Heights Code of Ordinances, “Short-Term
               Rentals.”
     5.        A “Settlement Agreement,” purportedly entered by the parties with an effective date
               of October 19, 2007.



                                                      Assumed Facts
     1.        It is assumed that the two conditional use applications do not involve detrimental
               impacts that could not be addressed by reasonable conditions.



Advisory Opinion – David & Heidi Stapel/Cottonwood Heights
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 29, 2007– page 2 of 7 pages
                                         Revisions to Advisory Opinion
This Revised and Restated Advisory Opinion supersedes in its entirety the previously released
Advisory Opinion in this matter dated November 20, 2007. The previous Advisory Opinion is
withdrawn and of no force or effect.

The Background Section of this Revised and Restated Advisory Opinion contains some revisions
to reflect the factual information received by this Office subsequent to the release of the previous
Advisory Opinion. Section I of this Revised and Restated Advisory Opinion is unchanged from
the previously released Advisory Opinion, except as to footnote 2 (the revisions to Footnote 2 are
not material to this Advisory Opinion, changes having been made in the interest of factual
accuracy). Section II of the previously released Advisory Opinion, which was an informal
opinion of this office, has been removed. This Revised and Restated Advisory Opinion does not
contain a Section II.

                                                         Background
The Stapels own two residential properties in Cottonwood Heights. The first home is located on
Wasatch Boulevard, and the second on Creek Road. The applications were treated separately by
the City. In the Spring of 2007, the Stapels applied to use the properties for short-term rentals.
At the time of the applications, short-term rentals were allowed as a conditional use in the zones
where the homes were located. (See Cottonwood Heights Code of Ordinances § 19.89.050).
Section 19.76.320 of the City’s Code regulates short term rentals, and limits the number of
bedrooms to four.

On May 22, 2007, after the applications had been submitted, the City imposed a six-month
moratorium on applications for short-term rentals. The City indicates that it is planning to revise
its ordinances to prohibit short-term rentals in single family residential zones. In spite of the
moratorium, the City processed the Stapel’s applications as conditional uses. On June 6, the
City’s Planning Commission approved the Wasatch Boulevard house as a short term rental, with
some conditions. The Commission specifically imposed a condition that the home could have no
more than four bedrooms. In the application, the Stapels indicated that the house had eight
bedrooms. The Stapels agreed to the conditions (including the bedroom limitation).

On June 20, 2007, the City’s Planning Commission denied the application for the Creek Road
house. According to the City, the application was denied because the Creek Road house had
seven bedrooms, which violated the four-bedroom restriction imposed by § 19.76.320. The
Stapels stated that they were willing to limit the available bedrooms in the home to comply with
the ordinance.

A neighboring property owner appealed the approval granted for the Wasatch Boulevard home,
on the grounds that the four-bedroom limit was violated. The Stapels filed an appeal on the
denial of the Creek Road home, on the grounds that the denial was unreasonable because the



Advisory Opinion – David & Heidi Stapel/Cottonwood Heights
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 29, 2007– page 3 of 7 pages
Wasatch Boulevard application had been granted under very similar circumstances. The City’s
Board of Adjustment heard the appeals on August 30, 2007, but has not issued decisions.

In September, the City proposed a compromise to settle the appeals. The City’s proposal was
basically to allow the Wasatch Boulevard approval to stand, but withdraw the Creek Road
application. The City approached the Stapels and their counsel, Todd Barfuss, with a written
Settlement Agreement. That Settlement Agreement contemplated a dismissal of all appeals in
the matter, including the appeal filed by the neighboring property owner.



                                                             Analysis
     I.        The Creek Road Conditional Use Application was Entitled to Approval
               Because Reasonable Conditions Mitigate the Detrimental Affects of the Use

The conditional use permit for the Creek Road Short-Term rental should have been approved,
because reasonable conditions could mitigate the use. “A conditional use shall be approved if
reasonable conditions are proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated
detrimental effects of the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards.” UTAH CODE
ANN. § 10-9a-507(2)(a). 1 Since the City’s ordinance required that short-term rentals have no
more than four bedrooms, the conditional use permit should have been approved, with the
condition that the Creek Road home comply with that applicable standard.

Section 10-9a-507 requires approval of conditional use permits if reasonable conditions can be
imposed to mitigate the detrimental effects of the use. That section also requires that the
standards for conditional uses be set forth in a city’s ordinances, rather than arbitrarily chosen at
the time of the application. The Creek Road home evidently has at least seven rooms that are
designated as “bedrooms.” 2 However, the City’s ordinance limits the number of bedrooms in a
short-term rental to no more than four. It appears that this limit could have been imposed upon
the Creek Road home (as it was on the Wasatch Boulevard home) 3 .

The City denied the Creek Road application because of “facial non-compliance with the four-
bedroom limit” (City’s Response Letter, at 3). By denying the application for “facial non-
compliance” without attempting to impose the four-bedroom limit, the City is essentially
requiring the applicants to propose their own conditions in advance, and hope that the City will
accept them. Such a rejection is prohibited by § 10-9a-507, which allows denial of a conditional
use permit only when it is shown that the detrimental effects of the proposed use cannot be

1
  There is a parallel section applicable to counties found at UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-506.
2
  By reference to Websters Dictionary (in accordance to the preamble to chapter 19.04 of the City Code), the City’s
Ordinance defines a bedroom as a “room furnished with a bed and intended primarily for sleeping.”
3
  It should be remembered, however, that approval of one application does not necessarily require approval of
another, even under identical circumstances. Each parcel and each application is unique. While approval of a past
application may be a persuasive argument to approve a similar application, it does not bind a local government to
approve a subsequent application.

Advisory Opinion – David & Heidi Stapel/Cottonwood Heights
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 29, 2007– page 4 of 7 pages
mitigated by reasonable conditions. Furthermore, summary rejection by the City undermines the
purpose of conditional uses, which anticipates case-by-case evaluation to suit specific needs,
rather than blanket denials.

The City should have considered the conditional use application, and should have considered
imposing a four-bedroom limit on the Creek Road application. This not only follows the
standards announced in the City’s ordinances, but it also helps to mitigate the impact of the use. 4
Since the four-bedroom limit is a reasonable condition that mitigates the detrimental effects of
the Creek Road home, the City should have approved the conditional use. 5

                                                             Conclusion
Under § 10-9a-507 of the Utah Code, both conditional use applications should have been
approved. An application for a conditional use permit shall be approved if reasonable conditions
mitigate negative impacts of the use. A four-bedroom limit could have been imposed on the
Creek Road House, in the same manner that it was in the Wasatch Boulevard House. Denying an
application on the basis of “facial noncompliance” is prohibited by § 10-9a-507, and is
inconsistent with the purposes of conditional uses.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, § 13-42-205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her


4
  The City has not explained the four-bedroom limit. However, it stands to reason that the limit restricts the number
of persons using the short-term rental, which helps harmonize the use with a residential neighborhood.
5
  This Opinion assumes that there are no other detrimental effects that cannot be mitigated.

Advisory Opinion – David & Heidi Stapel/Cottonwood Heights
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 29, 2007– page 5 of 7 pages
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.




Advisory Opinion – David & Heidi Stapel/Cottonwood Heights
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 29, 2007– page 6 of 7 pages
                                               MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

          Liann Stillman
          City Manager
          1265 E Fort Union Blvd #250
          Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84047

On this ___________ Day of November, 2007, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                                         ______________________________________________________
                                         Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – David & Heidi Stapel/Cottonwood Heights
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 29, 2007– page 7 of 7 pages
