                     Advisory Opinion #88
                             Parties: Lawrence Meadows and Park City
                          Issued: July 14, 2010, clarified September 22, 2010

                                         TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      E: Entitlement to Approval (Vesting)
                      F: Complete Land Use Application
                      R(v): Other Topics (Interpretation of Ordinances)

An applicant is entitled to approval if a complete application complies with the land
use ordinances in place. An incomplete application cannot claim vested rights.
Erroneous information in an application causes it to be incomplete until the
information is corrected.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                           State of Utah
                           Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                           OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   GREG BELL
Lieutenant Governor



                                           ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                 Lawrence Meadows

      Local Government Entity:                       Park City

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:           Woodside Development, LLC

      Project:                                       Remodel of Existing Home

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 July 14, 2010

      Opinion Authored By:                           Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney, Office of the Property
                                                     Rights Ombudsman


                                                     Issues
      I.         May an applicant claim vested rights based on an application which relies upon erroneous
                 information?

      II.        May an appeal authority decline to consider an appeal that has been rendered moot?

                                      Summary of Advisory Opinion
      Section 10-9a-509 of the Utah Code provides that an applicant for land use approval may claim
      vested rights in land use ordinance in effect when a complete application is submitted. The
      crucial vesting date is the date the application is complete, not necessarily the date the
      application is filed. A submitted application that is incomplete does not vest. An application that
      has been withdrawn because crucial information submitted with the application is materially
      incorrect cannot comply with the zoning ordinances in effect. Therefore, that application cannot
      be considered complete, and the applicant cannot claim vested rights in the application. A new
      application must be submitted.

      An appeal authority is not obligated to consider a matter which has been made moot. There is no
      reason to issue a decision that will have no legal effect. If the circumstances of an application
      have changed and the controversy leading the appeal has been eliminated, a decision from an
      appeal authority will have no legal effect, and the appeal is moot.
                                                   Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-
205. The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or
other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such
a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

A request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Lawrence Meadows on March 22, 2010.
A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Janet Scott, City Recorder of Park City. The
City received the request on March 24, 2010. The City submitted a response to the Office of the
Property Rights Ombudsman, which was received on March 30, 2010. The Property Owner,
Woodside Development, LLC, submitted a response, which was received by the Office on March
29, 2010.

                                                  Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion from Lawrence Meadows, filed March 22, 2010
                 with the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman.
     2.          Response from Park City, submitted by Polly Samuels McLean, Assistant City
                 Attorney, received on March 30, 2010.
     3.          Response submitted by Joseph E. Tesch, attorney for the property owner, received by
                 fax on March 29, 2010.
     4.          Additional materials submitted by Lawrence Meadows, including minutes of the Park
                 City Planning Commission, the City’s Historic Preservation Board, and email
                 correspondence between the City’s staff and Mr. Meadows.

                                                Background
Woodside Development, LLC, owns a home located 505 Woodside Avenue in Park City
(“Woodside”). The home has been designated by Park City as being “historically significant,”
because the original portion was built around 1904, and is representative of the City’s
development during its mining heyday. 1 The City has adopted a historic preservation ordinance,
which governs replacement or renovation of structures deemed to be historically significant.
1
  The home was designated as “historically significant” after a city-wide survey in 2008. The home is considered
historic because it dates from the “mature mining era” (i.e., 1894-1930), but it has no other historic or cultural
significance.


Advisory Opinion – Meadows/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 14, 2010 – page 2 of 8 pages
According to the materials submitted for this Opinion, there have been additions to the rear of
the original 505 Woodside structure, while the front portion retains the original design.

In March of 2009, Woodside applied for a permit to remodel the 505 Woodside structure. The
proposed remodeling included replacing much of the rear portion with new construction, and
removing about 5 feet from one end of the front portion. Removing the end of the front portion
made it possible to construct a driveway around the home, leading to a garage, which was
proposed for the rear of the structure. 2 Because the proposed remodeling included alteration of a
historic structure, an application was subject to the City’s Historic District Design and Review
code.

After reviewing the application, the City determined that it was complete, and that it complied
with the Historic District Design and Review criteria. The City’s planning staff recommended
approval, and notified the owners of surrounding properties (as required by City ordinance).
One of those owners, Lawrence Meadows, objected to the proposed remodeling, and notified the
City in writing. 3 Mr. Meadows stated that the building should not be modified, because it was
subject to restrictions under the historic preservation ordinance. He also stated that the City
ignored its own provisions related to development of properties with steep slopes. 4

Mr. Meadows argued that the remodeling required a finding that the structure, or the portion
being altered, was “historically insignificant.” In addition, no demolition could be performed
unless the City granted a “Certificate of Appropriateness of Demolition.” Mr. Meadows stated
that Woodside had not applied for either of these approvals.

Mr. Meadows also stated that the remodeling could not be approved without a conditional use
permit, because the property had a slope greater than 30%. According to the City, however, the
Land Management Code only required a conditional use permit when the “natural” grade was
greater than 30%. Slopes that were created artificially did not require conditional use permits,
even if they were greater than 30%. The City stated that they had evaluated the lot, and
determined that the “natural” grade of the lot was 21%, so a conditional use permit was not
necessary.

After filing his objection to the remodeling, Mr. Meadows investigated the proposal in greater
detail. He found that the application submitted by Woodside was erroneous, because the five feet
to be removed from the front of the building was actually part of the original structure, and so
removal was subject to the restrictions of the historic preservation ordinance. Woodside claimed

2
  The garage would be part of the new construction. The garage would be on the ground floor, with other additions
to the home located above the garage.
3
  Mr. Meadows is the owner of Woodside Properties, LLC, which owns the property located at 515 Woodside (next
to 505 Woodside). Although Woodside Properties, LLC is the actual owner, for clarity this Opinion will refer to Mr.
Meadows as if he were the owner. This should not be interpreted as imputing ownership rights or duties upon Mr.
Meadows, and does not alter the actual ownership of the property. Mr. Meadows also argued that the City did not
provide adequate notice of the approval for remodeling of 505 Woodside. However, he submitted his objections and
appeal within the 10-day period provided by ordinance.
4
  According to the Park City Land Management Code, any structure or access located on a slope greater than 30%
must obtain a conditional use permit. See PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CODE, § 15-2.2.6.


Advisory Opinion – Meadows/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 14, 2010 – page 3 of 8 pages
that the northernmost five feet of the structure was not part of the original home, and so could be
removed without invoking the historic preservation requirements. The City’s planning staff
agreed, and recommended approval. 5

Mr. Meadows raised his objections and requested a hearing by the Historic Preservation Board.
Hearings were scheduled for both November and December of 2009, but were postponed. In
December, Woodside submitted revised plans, evidently addressing some of the concerns raised
by Mr. Meadows. As part of the application, the owner also submitted a copy of a photo of the
property taken in the early 1940s by the Summit County Assessor. 6 Using that photo, the owner’s
experts had calculated the dimensions of the home, and concluded that the northernmost five feet
had been added after the photo was taken.

Mr. Meadows and his expert also evaluated the photo, and determined that the dimensions
submitted by the property owner were in error, and that the northernmost five feet was part of the
original structure. If that were the case, that five feet could not be removed without specific
approval from the Historic Preservation Board. Mr. Meadows brought this to the attention of the
City’s planning staff, and planned to make it the centerpiece of his appeal.7 Mr. Meadows
pointed out the inaccuracies of those measurements, but he claims the City did not acknowledge
the error. A public hearing of the Historic Preservation Board was scheduled for February 3,
2010. 8 That same day, only a short while before the hearing, the Woodside withdrew the
application for permission to remodel the home. The Board declined to consider the appeal,
although Mr. Meadows appeared, and was prepared to present his arguments.

The City states that Woodside acknowledges that the previous designs were based upon a
mistaken reading of the historic photograph, and that the portion of the home slated for removal
is in fact subject to historic preservation requirements. The City also states that it is allowing
Woodside to amend the application, which will presumably retain the original application date of
March, 2009. The date is critical, because the City has since amended its Land Management
Code, and the new provisions affect the remodeling proposal. Mr. Meadows argues that because
the application used erroneous information, it was never complete, and Woodside cannot claim
vested rights under the previous code. Mr. Meadows also claims that his due process rights were
denied, because the Historic Preservation Board cancelled the hearing when Woodside withdrew
the application.


5
  There does not appear to be any opposition to removing the rear portion of the building, which is a newer addition,
and not considered part of the historic structure. However, the proposed driveway relied upon removal of five feet
from the front of the home.
6
  The photo was taken as part of the assessor’s duties to determine the value of properties for tax purposes. The
photo was taken from the street in front of the southern edge of the property. The street level is a few feet below the
home, so the perspective is looking up and angling away to the north.
7
  Mr. Meadows raised other issues concerned with the appropriateness of allowing extensive remodeling of the
historic structure, including whether conditional use permits would be required for some aspects of the project.
8
  Another part of the dispute arose from the City’s proposal that the appeal be bifurcated, with the Historic
Preservation Board handling appeals based on the historic preservation ordinance, and the City’s Planning
Commission handling other matters based on the Land Management Code. At the request of Mr. Meadows, this plan
was dropped, and the appeal proceeded to the Historic Preservation Board.


Advisory Opinion – Meadows/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 14, 2010 – page 4 of 8 pages
Following Mr. Meadows’ Request for this Opinion, Joseph E. Tesch, who represents Woodside
submitted a response. Mr. Tesch stated that Mr. Meadows has no direct interest in the proposal
to remodel 505 Woodside, and so has no standing to request an Advisory Opinion. In addition,
he contends that since the owner is amending the application, the matter is not yet ripe for an
Opinion.

                                                    Analysis
I.      As a Potentially Aggrieved Person, Lawrence Meadows may Request an Advisory
        Opinion.

As the owner of neighboring property that may be affected the application to remodel 505
Woodside, Lawrence Meadows is a potentially aggrieved person, and may request an Advisory
Opinion. Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code provides that “a local government or a potentially
aggrieved person may . . . request an Advisory Opinion . . . .” from the Office of the Property
Rights Ombudsman. UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-205. Mr. Meadows owns the property to the
north of 505 Woodside, and will be directly affected by the remodeling project. It appears that
the proposal includes construction of a rock wall along the property boundary, which impact Mr.
Meadows’ property. He thus has an interest in the proposed remodeling. Moreover, Mr.
Meadows may appeal any land use decisions related to the proposal. The Park City Land
Management Code provides that “[t]he Owner of any Property within three hundred feet of the
boundary of the subject site . . .” has standing to pursue an appeal. PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CODE,
§ 15-1-18(D)(2). Since Mr. Meadows owns property within 300 feet of 505 Woodside, he is
entitled to appeal, and is thus a potentially aggrieved person. 9

II.     The Application to Remodel 505 Woodside was Incomplete, so the Owner Cannot
        Claim Vested Rights.

The application to remodel 505 Woodside was based on erroneous information that was material
to determining whether the application should have been granted. If the correct information is
used, the application would not comply with the zoning ordinance in effect. The application can
therefore not be considered “complete” for vesting purposes, and the applicant cannot claim
vested rights in the original application, even if the information is corrected.

A property owner “is entitled to approval of a land use application if the application conforms to
the requirements of the municipality’s land use maps, zoning map, and applicable land use
ordinance in effect when a complete application is submitted and all fees have been paid . . . .”
UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(1)(a). 10 This is generally referred to as the “Vested Rights Rule,”

9 The dispute resolution function of the Advisory Opinion, combined with the fact that Advisory Opinions are

advisory and not binding upon either party, supports the conclusion that Advisory Opinions should be made
available to more, rather than fewer, parties. Where an Advisory Opinion can help resolve a matter without the need
for litigation, it ought to be available. Accordingly, it is the policy of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
to interpret the limitations on availability of Advisory Opinions expansively where possible. Advisory Opinions
remain unavailable when exclusion is explicit.
10
   See also UTAH CODE ANN. 17-27a-508 (same provision applicable to counties).


Advisory Opinion – Meadows/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 14, 2010 – page 5 of 8 pages
and the statute is based upon the Utah Supreme Court’s decision in Western Land Equities v. City
of Logan, 617 P.2d 388 (Utah 1980). In essence, the rule expressed in Western Land Equities
provides that a property owner’s rights to develop “vest” in the ordinances in place at the time a
land use application is filed, and a local government cannot change those ordinances after the
application is submitted.

When the Utah Legislature codified the Vested Rights Rule, it added the provision that
development rights do not vest unless the application is “complete.” Section 10-9a-509(1) thus
requires a complete application in order for the applicant’s development right to vest. The date
an application is filed is not as important as the date an application is considered complete. “An
application for a land use approval is considered submitted and complete when the application is
provided in a form that complies with the requirements of applicable ordinances and all
applicable fees have been paid.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(1)(f). 11 It stands to reason that
all information material to a decision to grant or deny the request must be present before the
application can be considered “complete.”

An application relying on mistaken, erroneous, or misleading information of a material nature
would be no more valid than one submitted without required information, and cannot be
considered complete until the information is stated correctly and clearly. A local government
would not be able to accurately review a land use application that was missing important
information, and likewise cannot give accurate review to an application that contains important
information that is incorrect or misleading. This is especially true where correction of the
information means that the application would not comply with the zoning ordinance in effect.
See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(1)(a). In such cases the application cannot be considered
complete. When a complete application with correct information will require redesign of the
project to comply with the current zoning ordinance, new notices and new review by the city will
also be necessary in order to provide due process. Such a redesign will require a new application,
not simply a correction of the old one. 12

According to the information provided for this Opinion, the application was submitted on March
5, 2009. At the time, the City deemed the application complete, and the staff granted approval.
However, as the appeal process moved forward, it was discovered that the applicant, the owner
of 505 Woodside, relied upon erroneous material information. Correction of that information
means the application does not comply with the zoning ordinance; the northernmost five feet of
the home are part of the original structure and cannot be removed without specific authorization.
Thereby the driveway cannot be built. Thus, the approval granted cannot be considered effective,
and a new application containing a new design will be necessary. The application cannot be
considered complete until that new application is submitted that “conforms to the requirements
of the municipality's land use maps, zoning map, and applicable land use ordinance in effect.”

11
  See also PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CODE, § 15-1-17 (adoption of vesting rule based upon state statute).
12
   Inconsequential or minor mistakes or omissions on matters that are not material to the decision of whether to
approve the application would not render the application incomplete, and an applicant ought to have the opportunity
to provide the correct information without the loss of the vested right. The Vested Rights Rule would have little
efficacy if unpopular but perfectly legal projects could be halted because an inconsequential mistake obliterated a
developer’s vested rights.


Advisory Opinion – Meadows/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 14, 2010 – page 6 of 8 pages
Therefore, the old application must be considered withdrawn. The old application is thus no
longer active or valid, and the applicant cannot rely on vesting under the old application. 13

III. The Appeal was Rendered Moot When the Application was Withdrawn, and the
     Historic Preservation Board was not Obligated to Decide the Appeal.

Since the application was withdrawn by the Owner before the Historic Preservation Board
considered the appeal, the matter is moot, and the Board is not obligated to issue a decision. The
Utah Code authorizes the establishment of appeal authorities, to hear and decide “appeals from
decisions applying . . . land use ordinances.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-701(1)(b). These appeal
authorities are quasi-judicial, with authority to decide appeals. 14

Although not expressly stated in the Utah Code or in the Park City Municipal Code, the authority
to decide appeals necessarily includes the ability to decline to decide because the appeal has
become moot. "An appeal is moot if during the pendency of the appeal circumstances change so
that the controversy is eliminated, thereby rendering the relief requested impossible or of no
legal effect." Salt Lake County v. Holliday Water Co., 2010 UT 45, ¶ 15. 15 There is no need for
a decision that will have no practical effect, and declining to consider an appeal that has been
mooted does not deny the appellant’s due process rights.

In this matter, the Owner of 505 Woodside withdrew his application in order to address the
concerns raised in Mr. Meadows’ appeal. This withdrawal changed the circumstances of the
controversy, and a decision from the Historic Appeals Board would have little or no legal effect.
With the appeal thus mooted, the Board was not obligated to issue a decision. This does not
eliminate the possibility that a decision on a proposal may be appealed in the future, neither does
it mean that the applicant has been granted any special rights or privileges related to how the
application is to be processed, and it does not deny the rights of any interested party to pursue an
appeal.

IV. Other Issues Raised in the Request for This Opinion Cannot be Evaluated Because
    they are not Authorized Topics for Advisory Opinions.

Mr. Meadows raised other issues when he requested this Opinion, but these issues cannot be
evaluated, because they are either outside the authorized topics for Advisory Opinions, or
because there is not enough information to consider. The Office of the Property Rights
Ombudsman may issue Advisory Opinions on matters concerning land use and development.

13
   This preserves the integrity of the Vested Rights Rule, because it prevents an applicant from submitting a
misleading or incomplete application simply to secure vested rights. Note that this is not meant to imply that
Woodside intended to mislead when it submitted its application.
14
   See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-701(3)(a)(i). Appeal authorities may be individual hearing officers or appointed
boards, and local governments may designate different appeal authorities for specific types of appeals. For example,
the Historic Preservation Board has been designated by Park City “[t]o review all appeals on action taken by the
Planning Department regarding compliance with the Design Guidelines for Park City’s Historic Districts and
Historic Sites” PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CODE, § 15-11-5(H).
15
   This definition is from a case dealing with a judicial action, but is also applicable as a guideline for quasi-judicial
and administrative bodies.


Advisory Opinion – Meadows/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 14, 2010 – page 7 of 8 pages
Section 13-43-205 lists the topics authorized for Opinions. While that list covers a fairly broad
range, there are limits to the issues that can be evaluated. Mr. Meadows raises issues concerning
how the application to remodel 505 Woodside was processed, including accusations of
impropriety, conflicts of interest, and negligence. Although related to a land use application,
such issues are not permitted topics for an Advisory Opinion, and the Office of the Property
Rights Ombudsman therefore declines to express an opinion on those matters. 16

                                                 Conclusion
The owner of a neighboring property is a potentially aggrieved person who may request an
Advisory Opinion, particularly if a proposed development impacts the property. Mr. Meadows
owns property immediately north of the property that is subject to a land use application. His
property may be impacted by the construction. In addition, he specifically has standing to pursue
an appeal, so it is acceptable to conclude that he may request an Advisory Opinion.

An applicant for land use approval has vested rights in the land use ordinances in effect when a
complete application is submitted. The date of vesting is the date the application is complete, not
the date of filing. An incomplete application does not establish vested rights. An application that
relies upon incorrect, erroneous, or misleading information that renders the application
incompliant with the zoning ordinance is not complete until the correct information is provided,
even if the application is inadvertently approved. An applicant may amend an application with
corrected information, but may not claim an earlier vesting date, because the application is not
complete.

An appeal authority may decline to consider an appeal, if the appeal is moot. There is no need to
issue a decision that will have no legal effect. A matter is moot if the circumstances have
changed, eliminating the controversy, so that a decision will have no legal effect. Since the
applicant withdrew the application, the appeal is moot, and the Historic Preservation Board is not
obligated to issue a decision.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




16
  Mr. Meadows also raises the issue of whether the City correctly determined that a conditional use permit was not
required, because the slope of 505 Woodside was less than 30%. The slope of the parcel is a factual determination,
and such factual questions are outside of the purview, and indeed the ability, of the Office of the Property Rights
Ombudsman to determine in an Advisory Opinion.
Advisory Opinion – Meadows/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 14, 2010 – page 8 of 8 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

           Janet M. Scott, City Recorder
           Park City
           445 Marsac Avenue
           Park City, Utah 84060

On this ___________ Day of July, 2010, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       State of Utah
                       Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                       OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   GREG BELL
Lieutenant Governor



                             AMENDMENT AND CLARIFICATION
                                     OF ADVISORY OPINION


      Date:                                      September 22, 2010

      Requested by:                              Woodside Development, LLC, by and through its
                                                 attorney, Joseph E. Tesch, Tesch Law Offices

      Local Government Entity:                   Park City


                                                 Issues
      May the applicant owner of 505 Woodside continue to claim vested rights upon submission of an
      amended application?

                                               Summary
      This Amendment and Clarification of Advisory Opinion addresses questions raised by Woodside
      Development, LLC, owner of 505 Woodside, by and through his attorney Joseph E. Tesch,
      following the Advisory Opinion issued on July 14, 2010. This document amends and clarifies
      that Advisory Opinion.

      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not persuaded that the July 14, 2010 Advisory
      Opinion is in error. As stated in the Advisory Opinion, under the plain language of Utah Code §
      10-9a-509, the applicant at 505 Woodside did not vest. Woodside’s application never vested,
      because it did not, in fact, conform to the requirements of Park City’s land use maps, zoning
      map, and applicable land use ordinance in effect.



                                   Revisions to Advisory Opinion
      This Amendment and Clarification of Advisory Opinion and the Advisory Opinion issued July
      14, 2010 by this Office together constitute the full Advisory Opinion on this matter under Utah
      Code § 13-43-205. This Amendment and Clarification is not intended to supersede the previous
      Advisory Opinion, which, together with this document, is hereby in full force and effect. The
Advisory Opinion was suspended by letter dated July 20, 2010 from Brent Bateman, Lead
Attorney at the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, to Lawrence Meadows. As of the date
of this Amendment and Clarification of Advisory Opinion, that suspension is hereby withdrawn.

The owner of 505 Woodside requested that the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman amend
or reconsider the July 14, 2010 Advisory Opinion in a letter it submitted on July 19, 2010 from
its attorney Joseph E. Tesch. Included with that letter was a letter dated June 29, 2010, from
Tesch Law Offices to Polly Samuels McLean, Assistant Park City Attorney. The OPRO also
received a letter from Tesch Law Offices dated August 24, 2010, along with extensive exhibit
materials. All of these materials and submissions were considered in reviewing the Advisory
Opinion and preparation of this Amendment and Clarification of Advisory Opinion.


                                         Background
Woodside Development, LLC owns a home located 505 Woodside Avenue in Park City that has
been designated as “historically significant.” The City’s Historic District Design and Review
ordinance governs renovation of historically significant structures. In March of 2009, Woodside
applied for a permit to remodel 505 Woodside. The proposed remodeling included removing
about 5 feet from one end of the front portion of the structure. The City deemed that the
application complied with the Historic District Design and Review criteria and was complete.
Thereafter, the City revised its Land Management Code. Nevertheless, the City considered the
applicant to have vested under the previous code.

The next-door neighbor to 505 Woodside, Lawrence Meadows, objected to the proposed
remodeling, and appealed the approval of the permit. In addressing Mr. Meadows’ objection, the
parties learned that the dimensions submitted by the property owner were in error, and that the
northernmost five feet was part of the original historic structure, and could not be removed under
the City’s Historic District Design and Review ordinance without specific approval from the
Historic Preservation Board. The applicant acknowledged the error, and withdrew the application
to remodel the home.

At issue is whether the applicant, upon submission of a new application to remodel the home,
remains vested, so that the new application must be considered under the land management code
in effect prior to amendment. The Advisory Opinion in this matter addressed this question, and
determined that the application did not comply with the zoning ordinances in effect, and was
therefore not complete under Utah Code § 10-9a-509 and did not vest. The applicant disagrees
vehemently with that portion of the Advisory Opinion, and requested an opportunity to submit
arguments and materials in that regard. The applicant further requests that this Office reconsider
the Opinion. The applicant’s lengthy submissions argue that Park City lacks authority to deem a
substantial change to an application a new application, and that correction of an honest mistake
in the application does not mandate a loss of vested rights.




                                                2
                                             Analysis
The owner of 505 Woodside argues that in Utah a land use applicant vests in the applicable
zoning laws in effect on the date certain of application. Although this statement is correct, it is
only a partial statement of Utah law. As pointed out in the Advisory Opinion, a land use applicant
in Utah vests on the date of application where that application is complete, and conforms to the
requirements of the municipality's land use maps, zoning map, and applicable land use
ordinance in effect. See UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509. In any discussion about the Utah vesting rule,
the entire statute must be regarded.

The actual language of the Utah vesting rule, adopted in Utah in 1980 in the case of Western
Land Equities, Inc. v. City of Logan, 617 P.2d 388, 396 (Utah 1980), and codified by the Utah
Legislature in UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(i) is:

       [A]n applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the application
       conforms to the requirements of the municipality's land use maps, zoning map,
       and applicable land use ordinance in effect when a complete application is
       submitted and all application fees have been paid.

Accordingly, by the plain language of the statute, a land use application vests on the date that (1)
a complete application is submitted, (2) that application conforms to the land use maps, zoning
map, and applicable land use ordinance in effect, and (3) all fees are paid. All three parts are
necessary in order for vesting to occur, and vesting can only be effective on the date that all three
are complete. Where an application is submitted and fees are paid, but the application does not
conform with the land use ordinance in effect, vesting cannot occur until the date the application
conforms. Likewise, a submitted application, even one that fully conforms to the ordinance,
cannot be considered complete and vested until the date that fees are paid.

According to the information received from the parties, the application to remodel 505 Woodside
did not conform to the ordinance in effect at any time. The application proposed to remove a
portion of the historic building, in violation of the Historic District Design and Review criteria.
The application did not therefore conform to the applicable land use ordinance in effect. By the
plain language of the statute, the application did not vest.

It appears that the nonconforming portion of the application was a simple and understandable
error (although significant). Nothing submitted for this Advisory Opinion evidences anything but
an honest mistake, and the OPRO has no reason to think that the error was caused by anything
but an honest mistake. However, the honesty of the mistake, or existence of a mistake, does not
excuse the fact that the application did not comply with the ordinance in effect. Under the plain
language of the statute, the application must conform to the municipality's land use maps, zoning
map, and applicable land use ordinance in effect. Nothing in that language excepts an honest
mistake from the requirement that the application conform to the ordinance in order to vest. The
language of the statute is plain and unequivocal.

Although this rule may appear harsh, it provides a modicum of balance to the early vesting rule
by encouraging applicants to prepare their applications with care. It disincentivizes intentionally


                                                 3
misleading or careless applications, or applications that the applicant has no intention of
constructing, filed simply to take advantage of early vesting. An application must be genuine and
correct when filed in order to vest. Under the plain language of the statute, the application to
remodel 505 Woodside did not vest.

Park City did in fact deem the application vested. This also appears to have been an innocent and
justifiable error arising from the applicant’s error. But Park City’s error does not excuse the
nonconformance of the application. Had an appeal of the application by a third party gone
forward, and at that appeal showed that the application did not conform to the statute despite the
fact that the City proclaimed that it did, the appeal authority still would have to grant the appeal
and overturn the approval. The innocent belief that the application complied and vested, even by
the City, does not actually vest the application.

The purpose of the early vesting rule is to provide some reliability and predictability in land use
regulation. The early vesting rule gives applicants an appropriate expectation that their
application will not be denied midway through the process by unstated rules. Development of
property is a difficult and costly process, and developers should be able to rely on their vesting
status to ensure that their expenditures are protected. “The economic waste that occurs when a
project is halted after substantial costs have been incurred in its commencement is of no benefit
either to the public or to landowners.” Western Land Equities, Inc. v. City of Logan, 617 P.2d
388, 396 (Utah 1980). These policies are vital to preserve. This Office believes that the Utah
vesting rule is the best rule among the alternatives and the cornerstone of land development in
Utah. This Office frequently combats efforts to avoid or devalue the Utah vesting rule.
Nevertheless, the Utah Code § 10-9a-509(1) is plain, and elucidates its narrow exceptions. Those
exceptions do not include a provision to allow vesting where an application does not conform
with the ordinance in effect. This Office is obligated to follow the plain language of a statute in
preparing its opinions.

There is, nevertheless, an available legal remedy in Utah in cases where honest mistake does
occur. Where a city mistakenly approves an application, a developer can sometimes find relief
for the reliance on that mistaken approval under the theory of zoning estoppel. See Fox v. Park
City, 2008 UT 85 ¶35. Zoning estoppel

       estops a government entity from exercising its zoning powers to prohibit a
       proposed land use when a property owner, relying reasonably and in good faith on
       some governmental act or omission, has made a substantial change in position or
       incurred such extensive obligations or expenses that it would be highly
       inequitable to deprive the owner of his right to complete his proposed
       development.

Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 391. Zoning estoppel is an active doctrine in Utah. See Fox,
2008 UT 85 at ¶35. Therefore, in a situation where a City grants vesting status to an application,
the applicant can proceed with development in reliance upon that status. If it is found later that
the applicant did not conform, and therefore did not vest, and if the applicant otherwise qualifies
for relief under zoning estoppel, equity may permit the applicant to continue the project.



                                                 4
It is unknown whether the applicant in this matter qualifies for relief under the zoning estoppel
doctrine. The parties have not argued that point, and accordingly this Advisory Opinion makes
no decision thereupon. The City and the applicant should examine the facts in this matter to
determine whether the applicant qualifies for relief under zoning estoppel. As stated above, in
order to zoning estoppel to apply, the applicant’s reliance must have been in good faith and
reasonable. The applicant must have made a substantial change of position or incurred extensive
obligations or expenses, and equity must require it. Additionally, when zoning estoppel does
apply, it allows a landowner to complete the development he has started. Id. It does not, however,
cause an applicant to vest. Nevertheless, where an honest mistake by the City has occurred,
zoning estoppel may be an available remedy.


                                         Conclusion
The application to remodel 505 Woodside did not conform to the requirements of the
municipality's land use maps, zoning map, and applicable land use ordinance in effect at the time
it was submitted, was not complete, and accordingly did not vest. The mistaken belief of the
applicant and of the City, even innocent, that the application is vested does not actually cause
vesting to occur.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




                                                5
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

           Janet M. Scott, City Recorder
           Park City
           445 Marsac Ave
           PO Box 1480
           Park City, Utah 84060

On this ___________ Day of September, 2010, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
