                     Advisory Opinion #12
                      Parties: Jordan School District and City of West Jordan
                                          Issued: March 1, 2007

                                        TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      D: Exactions on Development
                      P: Application Review Fees

The City can require a school district to connect to the City’s water utility for a new
school site, as long as the charges are reasonable. The City cannot require the
District to connect to the City’s sewer system if the property is more than 300 feet
from the sewer line.

The City can require street improvements if: 1) The improvements are the
minimum necessary to protect public safety; 2) the burdens are not
disproportionate; and 3) the improvements are reasonably related to school
safety.

The City may charge building inspection fees and reasonable impact fees. All
other land use fees are prohibited.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                                      State of Utah
                                      Department of Commerce
  JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
                                      OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor



                                                                   Advisory Opinion


            Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                 Jordan School District

            Local Government Entity:                                       City of West Jordan

            Applicant for the Land Use Approval:                           Jordan School District

            Project:                                                       Proposed Elementary School
                                                                           Approx 6000 West 7000 South
                                                                           West Jordan

            Date of this Advisory Opinion:                                 March 1, 2007

                                                                            Issues

            1. Can West Jordan City require the Jordan School District to connect a proposed elementary
            school site to city water and sewer utilities where those services can also be provided by a local
            improvement district?

            2. Can the City require the full improvement of 7000 South across the front of the proposed
            school site at 6000 West and continuing East to Montova Way at 5830 West?

            3. Can the City require the full improvement of 6200 West along the Western boundary of the
            proposed school site?

            4. Must the District pay a subdivision or site plan review fee when it submits an application to
            the City for such a land use approval?

                                                         Summary of Advisory Opinion

            1. West Jordan City can require the Jordan School District to arrange for the provision of water
            utilities for the new school site through the City. The resulting charges to the District must,
            however, be reasonable. The City cannot require the District to connect to the City’s sewer
            system if the nearest part of the sewer system is physically located more than 300 feet from the
            school site.

            2 and 3. While the City can impose street improvement requirements on the District, those
            conditions and exactions must meet three tests: 1) The requirements may provide for the


160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
minimum improvements necessary to provide adequate public facilities to protect public safety
as outlined in the fire code and other relevant codes; 2) the City must not impose
disproportionate burdens on the District when considered in light of the burdens which are
reasonably expected to be borne by the City as a result of the proposed school development,
standing alone; and 3) any required street improvements must be reasonably related to the safety
of school children.

4. The only land use fees that can be charged a school district are building inspection fees (if the
district uses city inspectors) and reasonable impact fees. All other land use fees are proscribed.

                                           Commentary

I appreciate the professional, thorough and competent manner in which the City and the District
and their respective counsel have assisted in the preparation of this opinion. The bottom line for
the most significant issues reviewed is that both the City and the District play an essential role in
protecting the safety and welfare of not only school children but members of the public at large.

I am confident that those I have dealt with in the preparation of this opinion will be able to make
decisions related to this matter that will reach an appropriate and sustainable compromise with
regard to these issues and the myriad of others that they must grapple with. They are individuals
characterized by competence, concern and good will.

                                              Review

A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Utah Code Annotated
Section 13-43-205. The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

The request for an advisory opinion in this matter was received from Jordan School District (the
District) by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman on November 13, 2006. A letter with
the request attached was sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to Ann Dowdle,
Risk/Real Property Manager of West Jordan City (the City), on November 22, 2006. Ms.
Dowdle is the individual whose name is listed as the designated agent on the records of the
Division of for the receipt of notice under the Utah Governmental Immunity Act A receipt for
delivery of the certified letter was dated November 27, 2006.

In telephone conversations the parties requested that the Office of the Property Rights
Ombudsman proceed to prepare the opinion. I visited on several occasions with John Taylor,


Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 2 of 24 pages
Auxiliary Services Executive for the District and Bruce Findlay, Attorney for the District. At a
meeting held on December 21, 2006 at the District offices, Barry Newbold, the Superintendent of
the District was present. I also visited on January 10, 2007 in a meeting with with Tom Steele,
Paul Coates, Wendell Rigby, and Darien Alcorn of the City and on that occasion and extensively
on other occasions with Roger Cutler, the City Attorney. We have exchanged several items of
correspondence as listed below. I also spoke with Jody Burnett, outside legal counsel for the
City.

On Thursday, February 22, 2007 I visited the location of the proposed school and observed the
current condition of the street improvements there. I was alone during that visit.


                                             Evidence

The following documents were reviewed prior to completing this advisory opinion:

                                          Correspondence

   1.      Letter from Randal Haslam, AIA, to Carl Eriksson, PE and General Manager of the
           Kearns Improvement District dated August 23, 2006.
   2.      Letter to Gary Lubers, City Manager of West Jordan City from Barry Newbold dated
           September 6, 2006.
   3.      Letter to John Taylor from Paul Coates dated September 18, 2006.
   4.      Letter to Paul Coates from John Taylor dated September 20, 2006.
   5.      Email to John Taylor from Paul Coates dated September 25, 2006.
   6.      Letter to John Taylor from Paul Coates dated October 2, 2006.
   7.      Email to John Taylor from Paul Coates dated October 6, 2006.
   8.      Letter to Board of Trustees, Kearns Improvement District, from Lyle C. Summers,
           Mayor Pro-tem of West Jordan City, dated October 10, 2006.
   9.      Letter to Paul Coates from John Taylor dated October 16, 2006.
   10.     Request for an Advisory Opinion from Jordan School District dated November 2,
           2006 and received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman on November
           13, 2006.
   11.     Letter to Paul Coates from John Taylor dated November 8, 2006.
   12.     Transmittal letter and West Jordan Planning Commission Application dated
           November 15, 2006 addressed to Paul Coates from John Taylor.
   13.     Letter to John Taylor from Paul Coates dated November 20, 2006
   14.     Email from Craig Call to Paul Coates dated January 4, 2007.
   15.     Letter to Craig Call from Tom Steele dated January 10, 2007.
   16.     Letter to Craig Call from Roger Cutler dated January 24, 2007.
   17.     Memorandum from Craig Call to Roger Cutler, John Taylor, and Bruce Findlay dated
           January 21, 2007
   18.     Memorandum to Craig Call, John Taylor, and Roger Cutler from Bruce Findlay dated
           February 6, 2007.


Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 3 of 24 pages
   19.     Letter to Craig Call from Roger Cutler dated February 6, 2007 (Corrected version).
   20.     Revised version of the February 6, 2007 letter to Craig Call from Roger Cutler, with
           comments from Bruce Findlay inserted into the text of Roger’s letter. The revisions
           are dated February 12, 2007.
   21.     Letter to Craig Call from Roger Cutler dated February 15, 2007.
   22.     Email to Craig Call from Roger Cutler dated February 26, 2007.

                                      Statutes and Ordinances

   23.     Utah Code Annotated, Section 10-9a-305.
   24.     West Jordan City Ordinances, Section 89-5-201 through 204 (Part 2 Adequate Public
           Facilities)
   25.     West Jordan City Ordinances, Section 87-1-101 through 87-8-106 (Subdivision
           Ordinance).
   26.     West Jordan City Ordinances, Section 89-6-401 through 413 (Development
           Construction Standards).
   27.     West Jordan City Ordinances, Section 89-5-501 through 502 (Residential
           Construction Not in a Recorded Subdivision).

                                      Documents and Exhibits

   28.     Undated site plan prepared by VCBO Architecture for a proposed school.
   29.     Abstract of Uniform Real Estate Contract dated December 28, 1959.
   30.     Abstract of Warranty Deed from Elmer Jensen and Lois Jensen to Board of Education
           of the Jordan School District dated February 10, 1961.
   31.     Abstract of Surveyor’s Plat dated February 1, 1961.
   32.     Certificate of Abstract dated March 15, 1961.
   33.     Undated and unattributed summary of “additional costs that the District believes will
           be incurred” and titled “New West Jordan Elementary”.
   34.     Aerial Photograph of vicinity of proposed school site – scale approx. 1” equals 400
           yards.
   35.     Aerial Photograph of vicinity of proposed school site – scale approx. 1” equals 200
           yards.

                                          Assumed Facts

   1.      The District owns property at approximately 6000 West 7000 South in West Jordan
           that it acquired in 1961.

   2.      The District intends to build an elementary school on the property, which is on the
           South side of 7000 South Street.

   3.      7000 South Street is not fully improved. On the North side of the proposed school
           site, and continuing to the East to approximately Mantova Way at 5830 West (for a


Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 4 of 24 pages
           distance of approximately 1500 feet) the improvements to 7000 South consist of as
           little as 21 feet of paved surface, with curb, gutter and sidewalk along the North side
           of the right-of-way.

   4.      From Mantova Way and continuing to the East, 7000 South is fully improved with
           curb, gutter and sidewalk on both sides of the street with pavement covering the street
           area between the curbs. The total width of the right-of-way in this area of 7000 South
           Street is approximately 80 feet including sidewalks, any park strips or planted area
           that may exist between the street and sidewalk, the curb and gutter, and the paved
           parking and travel lanes portions of the roadway.

   5.      Along the approximately 1500 foot section between the proposed school site and the
           closest part of 7000 South that is fully improved, there is no curb, gutter or sidewalk
           on the South side of 7000 South. The existing pavement in this area may be only 21
           feet wide.

   6.      The District does not own the property on the South side of 7000 South which has
           approximately 1500 lineal feet of frontage on 7000 South Street between the
           proposed school site and the point where 7000 South Street is fully improved at
           Mantova Way.

                                              Analysis

Generally – Applicability of Local Ordinances to School Sites

Under statute, municipalities have been vested with broad police powers.

   The municipal legislative body may pass all ordinances and rules, and make all regulations,
   not repugnant to law, necessary for carrying into effect or discharging all powers and duties
   conferred by this chapter, and as are necessary and proper to provide for the safety and
   preserve the health, and promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order,
   comfort, and convenience of the city and its inhabitants, and for the protection of property in
   the city.

Utah Code Annotated Section 10-8-84 (1). In construing these powers, the Utah Supreme Court
has stated that these powers are to be read broadly. State v. Hutchinson, 624 P.2d 1116 (Utah
1980). City ordinances, like state statutes, are presumed valid and constitutional. Any
reasonable doubts are to be resolved in favor of ruling that a local ordinance is valid and
constitutional. Salt Lake City v. Savage, 541 P.2d 1035 (Utah 1975); State v. Morrison, 2001 UT
73, 31 P.3d 547.

The code also provides, however: “Each school district shall be controlled by its board of
education and shall be independent of municipal and county governments. . . The local school
board shall have direction and control of all school property in the district.”



Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 5 of 24 pages
U.C.A. Section 53A-2-108. Land use restrictions as applied to schools are given specific
standards for review as well. Local governments operate under state statute, and are limited by
state statute where the statutes specifically apply to the use of the police power by local
governments. Limitations in the state land use statutes act to narrow the scope of local power.
The legislature has specifically discussed the regulation of school districts and school siting by
municipalities in the Land Use Development and Management Act, most particularly in U.C.A.
Section 10-9a-305 and in other parts of the Utah Code, such as in Sections 17A-3-315 and 53-
20-108 (for the full text of these statutes, see Appendix). The state land use statutes also provide
specifically that “a municipality may not impose stricter requirements or higher standards than
are required by . . . Section 10-9a-305 . . .” U.C.A. Section 10-9a-104.

These provisions of statute provide that school districts must conform to applicable land use
ordinances when “installing, constructing, operating, or otherwise using any area, land, or
building situated within that municipality.” U.C.A. 10-9a-305(1). This same section of the
Code also provides that municipalities are limited in some respects in how schools are to be
regulated under the land use laws. It states specifically that a municipality may not:

       . . . require a school district or charter school to participate in the cost of any roadway or
       sidewalk, or a study on the impact of a school on a roadway or sidewalk, that is not
       reasonably necessary for the safety of school children and not located on or contiguous to
       school property, unless the roadway or sidewalk is required to connect an otherwise
       isolated school site to an existing roadway;

U.C.A. 10-9a-305(3)(b). That section of the code also provides that:

       . . . a school district or charter school shall coordinate the siting of a new school with the
       municipality in which the school is to be located, to: (a) avoid or mitigate existing and
       potential traffic hazards, including consideration of the impacts between the new school
       and future highways; and (b) to maximize school, student, and site safety.

Utah Code Annotated, Section 10-9a-305(4). The state code also imposes a requirement that a
school district and a municipality must meet to “discuss concerns that each may have, including
potential community impacts and site safety” and “assess the availability of infrastructure for the
site.” U.C.A. Section 53A-20-108. This provision does not alter the ability of a municipality to
regulate a school, but clearly intends that issues of safety and infrastructure are to be considered
by both the school district and municipality prior to the finalization of a school site plan.

This is not to say that school districts are not “persons” under the law with their own specific
property rights. There is no indication that a school district does not have the protection that
other property owners have under the case law or the land use statutes. For example, the Utah
Court of Appeals has held:

       Because zoning ordinances are in derogation of a property owner's common-law right to
       unrestricted use of his or her property, provisions therein restricting property uses should



Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 6 of 24 pages
       be strictly construed, and provisions permitting property uses should be liberally
       construed in favor of the property owner.

Patterson v. Utah County Bd. of Adjustment, 893 P.2d 602, 606 (Utah Ct. App. 1995).

                         Requirement to Connect to Municipal Utilities

Issue: Can West Jordan City require the Jordan School District to connect a proposed
elementary school to city water and sewer utilities where those services can also be
provided by a local improvement district?

In this matter, the District asks if the City has the legal ability to require that the District connect
to city water and sewer systems. The issue appears to arise in light of the relative cost of these
services when comparing the cost of city services to those of the Kearns Improvement District
(KID). The KID, according to the material submitted by the District, is willing and able to
provide water and sewer services to the District at a cost that is estimated to be lower than the
District would have to pay if the City required a connection to city water and sewer utilities.
The City appears willing to allow the new school to receive sewer and water services from the
KID, but only through a “transparent” arrangement where the District pays the City’s normal
water connection fees and the City bills for water and sewer services provided by the KID.

An alternative is for the District to connect to the existing city water and sewer systems by
running new pipelines from the proposed school site to existing water and sewer mains within
the city system. This, according to the material submitted by the District, would be significantly
more expensive than the KID option. There is some indication in the correspondence between
the City and the District over the proposed school site that the City may intend to require the
installation of these sewer and water lines whether they are needed immediately or not so that
new street pavement does not need to be torn up later to install utility lines.

According to U.C.A. 10-9a-305(1)(a), “each . . . school district . . . shall conform to any
applicable land use ordinance for any municipality when installing, constructing, operating, or
otherwise using any area, land or building situated within that municipality.” The Utah Supreme
Court has recognized that a state statute specifically authorizing cities to require connection to
their sanitary sewer systems is “merely an express recognition of power implied in the police
powers previously held by municipalities, and is not . . . a legislative grant of a new power not
previously held by the cities.” Rupp v. Grantsville City, 610 P.2d 338, 342 n.4 (Utah 1980). In
light of these provisions in law, it is clear that the District is subject to local utility ordinances
under normal circumstances, and absent specific exceptions.

The City indicates that the District, for purposes of its land use ordinances, is a “developer”. In
the City’s ordinances at Section 89-1-203, the word “developer” as used in the land use
ordinances is a person who develops property or who causes property to be developed.
“Development” for purposes of the land use ordinances is defined to include any man-made
change to improved or unimproved real estate. By these definitions, the District is a developer.


Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 7 of 24 pages
Under WJCO Section 89-6-406(1), “The developer shall, at his expense, install all off-site
culinary water lines to connect his development within existing City systems.” There does not
appear to be a similar provision in the development code related to a requirement to connect to
the City sewer system, though WJCO Section 89-6-409 requires that the developer is to install a
sewer system that complies with the City’s construction standards and manuals that extends
across the frontage of all existing streets to the boundary of the development. There are
provisions requiring the installation of sewer utility lines in the City’s Subdivision Ordinance at
WJCO Section 87-5-111(g)(3), though these provisions may not be applicable if the school
project does not involve the subdivision of land.

With regard to the cost of public utilities charged to public entities, including school districts, the
Utah Supreme Court has recently commented on a relevant statute. In commenting about U.C.A.
17A-3-315, the court said that this provision of statute “specifically authorizes municipalities to
charge public agencies for services.” It provides:

       Nothing in this section shall prevent a municipality from imposing or a public agency
       from paying reasonable charges for any services or materials actually rendered or
       supplied by the municipality to the public agency, including, by way of example and not
       in limitation, charges for water, lighting, or sewer services.

Board of Education of Jordan School District v. Sandy City Corporation, 2004 UT 37, par. 18.
In provisions of this legal decision, which is also cited later in this opinion, the Court also
acknowledges that local governments will enjoy deferential treatment by the courts when their
decisions about appropriate infrastructure are challenged, especially where those decisions are
made in light of “accelerated urban growth”. Id. At par. 31.

School districts do enjoy some specific protections in state statute, however. As the Board of
Educ. v. Sandy case noted, a municipality can only impose “. . . reasonable charges for any
services or materials actually rendered or supplied. . .” This phrase may have been taken out of
context by the Court when it applied the provision directly to whether utility service charges are
appropriately made. The phrase requiring that charges be reasonable is not included in a statute
dealing with ongoing service charges, but comes from a statute dealing with assessments made to
offset the cost of permanent utility improvements. I have relied upon it because, in the Board of
Educ. v. Sandy case, the Court also applied this statute in support of a requirement that ongoing
service charges for school utilities must be reasonable. Id. at par. 18-22.

Specific provisions of state statutes may also limit the powers of cities more generally with
regard to utilities. For example, U.C.A. Section 10-8-38 provides:

       Any city or town may, for the purpose of defraying the cost of construction,
       reconstruction, maintenance or operation of any sewer system or sewage treatment plant,
       provide for mandatory hookup where the sewer is available and within 300 feet of any



Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 8 of 24 pages
       property line with any building used for human occupancy and make a reasonable charge
       for the use thereof.

This provision has been held to prohibit a municipality from requiring a developer or property
owner to hook up to sewer if the city sewer is more than 300 feet from the school site. This does
not violate the principles expressed in Hutchinson. In Harding v. Alpine City, 656 P.2d 985
(Utah 1982), the Utah Supreme Court held that cities could not require sewer hookups beyond
that distance and quoted Hutchinson to support the decision:

       There are ample safeguards against any abuse of power at the local level. Local
       governments, as subdivisions of the State, exercise those powers granted to them by the
       State Legislature, and the exercise of a delegated power is subject to the limitations
       imposed by state statutes and state and federal constitutions.

Hutchinson, at p. 1121, cited in Harding at p. 986. Therefore, the City cannot require the District
to connect to the City’s sewer system if the nearest part of the sewer system is physically located
more than 300 feet from the school site. If the District can obtain services elsewhere to meet its
sewer needs, it may do so, understanding that whatever means it uses to handling its sanitary
sewer needs must comply with applicable rules, codes, and ordinances.

Since there does not appear to be a statute related to water utilities that is similar to U.C.A. 10-8-
38, relating to sewer, the City ordinances do operate to require the District obtain its water
utilities for the new school site through the City. If water services can be provided efficiently
through the KID, there does not appear to be any reason not to do so, but the City’s ordinances
allow the City to make that call. The resulting charges to the District must, however, be
reasonable.

                         Requirement to Provide Street Improvements

Issues: Can the City require the full improvement of 7000 South across the front of the
proposed school site at 6000 West and continuing East to Montova Way at 5830 West?

Can the City require the full improvement of 6200 West along the Western boundary of the
proposed school site?

The City has provided in its ordinances for adequate public facilities to accommodate
development at WJCO Section 89-5-201 through 204. “Adequate Public Facilities” ordinances
setting minimum sizing and “concurrency” of infrastructure will be upheld, so long as they
provide for reasonable minimal standards for public utilities, roads and other infrastructure as
needed to serve the interests of health, safety and public welfare. A requirement that streets be
wide enough to accommodate emergency vehicles and that water lines provide adequate fire
flows are clearly not only legal and appropriate but wise.




Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 9 of 24 pages
The City Ordinances, at Section 87-5-106(d) provide “as a condition of subdivision approval, the
subdivider shall install street extensions and widening as recommended by the City’s Master
Transportation Plan.” Similar wording related to development in general is found at WJCO 89-
6-403(a)(1). Section 87-5-106(g) provides that “streets along a proposed subdivision boundary
shall be constructed to City standards and according to the City’s Master Transportation Plan.”
Section 87-5-106(h) provides that “half streets along subdivision boundaries or within any part
of a subdivision are not permitted unless specifically approved by the City Council.” Section 89-
6-406(a) provides that “If the City’s General Plan for water shows a water line larger than that
required for the proposed development, the developer shall install the line of proper dimension.”
Section 87-5-111(g)(2) provides that “If the City Sanitary Sewer Master Plan shows a sewer line
larger than that required for the proposed development, the developer will install the line of
proper dimension.” Section 87-5-111(h)(2) provides that “If the City Storm Drainage Master
Plan shows a pipe line larger than that required for the proposed development, the developer will
install the line of proper dimension.”

Section 87-5-203 of the City’s ordinances also provides:

       (a) As a condition of development approval, a developer shall be required to install public
       improvements which are reasonably necessary to serve the proposed development at
       adopted level of service standards. Where required by the City Engineer to connect to
       existing public improvements with adequate capacity, accommodate future development,
       or accommodate the CFP (Capital Facilities Plan), the developer shall also be required to
       install off-site or oversized public improvements reasonably necessary to extend, expand,
       or improve the City’s infrastructure beyond that which is necessary to serve or benefit the
       particular development.

       (b) All construction costs, installation costs, and the cost of acquiring property or
       easements shall be paid initially by the developer, at developer’s sole expense.

Sections 89-6-413 and 87-5-204 and 205 also provide for developer reimbursement agreements
which are also known as “pioneering agreements”. Under such an agreement, a developer may
request that the city make arrangements for the repayment to a developer of the qualifying costs
of public improvements sized to accommodate future needs by some future developer whose
project benefits from the improvements. The agreements are not guarantees of future payments,
and the sums to be repaid are limited in amount. The period of time during which reimburse-
ment may be made to the first developer is also limited to ten years (WJCO 87-5-207). No
interest is to be paid on any amounts due under the reimbursement agreement. (WJCO 87-5-
205(c)(10).

These three separate parts of the City’s ordinances are closely related. The adequate public
facilities provisions cited set a floor for development and ensure that adequate capacity is
available to provide for the base requirements of the most modest development. It is not
uncommon, for example, for municipalities to require a minimum 8 inch water line for any
development including small ones, since experience has shown that to be a reasonable minimum


Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 10 of 24 pages
size needed for fire flows. The provisions in the code requiring developers to build oversized
public improvements to accommodate the eventual projected capacities to meet the needs of
long-term growth and eventual “build out” of all the lands surrounding a proposed project go
beyond adequate public facilities, and provide for orderly and efficient expansion of the city
infrastructure. The third set of ordinances, providing for eventual reimbursement of the costs of
oversizing public improvements, allows a developer and the city to work out an arrangement that
will likely provide compensation later for added requirements imposed on the developer today.
These three different provisions of the ordinances are designed to protect the public health, safety
and welfare while attempting to balance the burdens placed on municipalities by exponential
growth with the burdens placed on private developers, who are of course benefited and enabled
by adequate infrastructure.

The system of burdens and benefits created by ordinances such as these seem to be quite logical
and practical in a larger view, but the individual project proposed by a specific property owner
who applies for land use approval can be starkly disadvantaged by such a regulatory scheme. In
order to avoid the placement of undue burdens on a given land use applicant, the courts and the
legislature have provided specific limitations on the imposing of development conditions and
exactions.

Conditions and exactions imposed in the process of reviewing land use applications are held to
specific standards of review. See Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S. 374 (1994), related to
conditions that required the dedication of land for flood control and a bike path; and Nollan v.
California Coastal Comm. 483 U.S. 825 (1987), which related to a requirement for the
dedication of an easement for public access across beach property to the state in order to obtain a
building permit for a residence. A recent Utah case heard by both the Utah Court of Appeals and
the Utah Supreme Court, BAM Development v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT App. 34 and 2006 UT
2, reemphasized the need for individualized determinations of fairness in a situation where
county government demanded land and street improvements from a subdivider to accommodate
future county road needs without an individualized determination that the conditions imposed
were both related to burdens created by a subdivision and proportionate to those burdens.

These cases provide that a property owner can refuse to dedicate private land to public use and
refuse to provide substantial public improvements unless there is an individualized determination
by the municipality involved demonstrating that the exactions imposed are both appropriate and
proportionate. The relevant state statute provides:

       A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in a land
       use application if:
       (1) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each exaction;
       and
       (2) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the
       proposed development.




Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 11 of 24 pages
U.C.A. 10-9a-508. If a land use approval requires oversized public improvements without proof
of uniformity and proportionality, such exactions may be ruled as unconstitutional.

The provisions of the West Jordan City ordinances which require oversizing will be held to be
unconstitutionally applied if they are imposed without an individualized determination of
relevance and proportionality in each case where they are challenged. In the current matter, City
officials have come to conclusions about the nature and extent of the street requirements which
will be imposed on the proposed school project and expressed those conclusions in written
communications to the District. This was inappropriate at this stage of the discussions about the
project. The City has argued that since no complete application for approval has been provided
to the City by the District, it is too early for this advisory opinion to opine on what conditions
and exactions would be appropriate for the project. I agree.

By the same token, it is also too early for officials of the City to state with certainty that 7000
South must be fully improved to a full 80 foot width across the entire frontage of the proposed
school site and continuing East to Mantova Way or that a 70 foot right of way must be provided
and all street improvements completed along the entire Western boundary of the proposed
school site. While the City ordinances allow for, indeed mandate, such conclusions before an
application is filed, these provisions are simply unconstitutional if applied without compensation
for the cost of oversizing or, in the alternative, without an individualized determination,
supported by substantial evidence in the record, that these street requirements are “roughly
proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the proposed development.” Id. As
provided in Dolan and BAM, to impose disproportionate exactions as part of a land use approval
constitutes a regulatory “taking” of private property for a public purpose without the payment of
just compensation.

The Utah Supreme Court and the Utah Court of Appeals have each held in the BAM case that
disproportionate exactions violate Article I, Section 22 of the Utah Constitution. Such a
violation is often referred to as a “regulatory taking.”

The remedy for a regulatory taking is just compensation. At U.C.A. 63-30d-302 (Governmental
Immunity Act) the state law provides that “In any action brought under the authority of Article I,
Section 22, of the Utah Constitution for the recovery of compensation from the governmental
entity when the governmental entity has taken or damaged private property for public uses
without just compensation, compensation and damages shall be assessed according to the
requirements of Title 78, Chapter 34, Eminent Domain.”

The compensation and damages referred to in the Governmental Immunity Act are provided for
in U.C.A. 78-34-10. In interpreting the predecessors to this provision of Utah statute, the Utah
Supreme Court has held that compensation within meaning of this section contemplates money:

       In the exercise of the right of eminent domain, no just compensation can be made for the
       property taken, except in money. Money is a common standard, by comparison with
       which the value of anything may be ascertained. Compensation is a recompense in value,


Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 12 of 24 pages
       a quid pro quo, and must be in money. Land or anything else may be a compensation, but
       then it must be at the election of the party; it cannot be forced upon him; and an act of the
       Legislature which provides that land may be taken and paid for with other lands
       belonging to the state does not provide a constitutional compensation."

Oregon Short Line R.R. v. Fox, 28 Utah 311, 78 P. 800 (1904). The City’s reimbursement
agreement options are thus not an acceptable substitute for just compensation, though they may
be entered into voluntarily by developers and in many cases will allow a good and fair resolution
of issues between the City and its development community. I am confident that many developers
are advantaged by the convenience and efficiency of the City’s protocols for the provision of
public improvements, as has the City. There would normally be nothing inappropriate in the
voluntary use of such options in arms-length transactions between land use applicants and
municipalities. If challenged, however, development conditions and exactions over and above
reasonable “adequate public facilities” minimums must be justified by individualized
determinations in each instance. If they cannot be, then the exactions must either be lifted or the
City must pay “cash money” for the portion of the cost of public improvements which is
disproportionate.

What does this mean as far as our current situation with the District and the proposed school?
Again referring back to U.C.A. 10-9a-305, it is clear (when adjusting the language to
accommodate the legislative propensity for double negatives) that the municipality may require a
school district to participate in the cost of a roadway or sidewalk, or a study on the impact of a
school on a roadway or sidewalk, if the roadway or sidewalk is reasonably necessary for the
safety of school children. Such a roadway or sidewalk may even be mandated on property that is
not contiguous to school property if it is required to connect an otherwise isolated school site to
an existing roadway.

In such matters, a City’s determination of reasonableness is to be given deference by the courts.
The Supreme Court of Utah has clearly stated as much.

       We hold that Sandy City's decisions regarding the structure, operation, and funding of its
       storm sewer system are entitled to deference. We generally give latitude to local
       governments in creating solutions to problems, especially in meeting the challenges and
       needs caused by accelerated urban growth. See Price Dev. Co. v. Orem City, 2000 UT
       26, P 19, 995 P.2d 1237; State v. Hutchinson, 624 P.2d 1116, 1126 (Utah 1980).
       Accordingly, we decline to substitute our judgment for that of the Sandy City Council in
       the resolution of this municipal problem.

Board of Educ. v. Sandy, at Par. 31. This common and predictable paradigm of judicial review is
consistent with the provisions of U.C.A. 53A-20-108, which is cited elsewhere in this opinion
(see Appendix) and mandates early and thorough discussion of the relative burdens related to
new schools that are to be borne by the school district proposing a school and the municipality.




Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 13 of 24 pages
Any requirements imposed by the City upon the District for vehicular and pedestrian access to
the new school site, both from the East and from the South, must be the subject of an
individualized determination of rough proportionality with regard to the burdens placed on the
transportation systems of the City by the school and the burdens placed back on the school by the
City. The test is “rough” proportionality.

       In adjudicating the validity of any individual application of this standard of
       reasonableness, the courts must concede municipalities the flexibility necessary to deal
       realistically with questions not susceptible of exact measurement. Precise mathematical
       equality "is neither feasible nor constitutionally vital."

Banberry Development Corp. v. South Jordan City, Utah, 631 P.2d 899 (1981). The Banberry
case also provides that “insofar as such equality can reasonably be achieved, this must be done.”

Again, quoting the Utah Supreme Court: “. . . none of the subsections surrounding subsection
(c) in paragraph 2 of section 10-9-106 expresses an intent to excuse a school district from paying
for services or improvements that are directly connected to a need created by the school district.
Board of Educ. v. Sandy, par. 17. (citing 10-9-106, the predecessor statute to 10-9a-305, which in
relevant language was identical to the current statute).

The City can require the District to make improvements to 7000 South Street if those
improvements are shown, by substantial evidence in the record, as being reasonably necessary
for the safety of school children. The City has expressed concern that the provision by the
District of street improvements without providing for the full eventual transportation needs of the
community would create gross inefficiencies. For example, it is predictable that the building of a
road of modest capacity, perhaps 50 feet wide, including two travel lanes with full curb, gutter
and sidewalk improvements might occur one year to meet the needs of a smaller development.
These may be the only street improvements justified by the demands created by the small
development. It might also be easily predictable that another larger development might be
proposed the next year on the same roadway, and that the larger development mandates a wider
street. In such a case the newly installed curb, gutter and sidewalk improvements on the 50 foot
right-of-way would of necessity be removed to accommodate more travel lanes. This might
occur even though it was clearly foreseeable that the wider street was going to be needed for full
build-out, albeit not for the minimum needs of the first development proposal. Not just the City,
but also the neighbors who endure two cycles of street improvements, the landowners whose
land must be acquired for street widening purposes, and even the second developer who bears
additional costs are all disadvantaged by a short-sighted decision to install infrastructure that is
smaller than necessary in order to protect both property rights and municipal funds.

I do not have a quick answer for this dilemma, except that if among the options to address the
issue is one that is illegal under the Constitution, we must use another option. Voluntary
incentives, impact fees, special improvement districts, less expensive interim options (such as a
footpath located some distance from the pavement for safe passage of students walking to and
from the school in lieu of full curb, gutter, and sidewalk improvements), other sources of interim



Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 14 of 24 pages
funding through revolving funds, the controlled phasing of development through annexation and
zoning decisions, and other options may be available in such a situation. The type of municipal
cooperation envisioned by U.C.A. 53A-3-409 may also be of assistance:

       (1) Local governmental entities and school districts may contract and cooperate with one
       another in matters affecting the health, welfare, and convenience of the inhabitants within
       their respective territorial limits.

       (2) A local governmental entity may disburse public funds in aid of a school district
       located wholly or partially within the limits of its jurisdiction.

I am not saying it is appropriate or even desirable for the City to participate in the funding of
school improvements, but only submit that there are options in dealing with school districts that
would not be available in resolving land development concerns with private developers.

The current controversy about the specific application of narrow rules and statutes to a given
case would give rise to the impression that the City and the District are miles apart on these
issues. Both sides to the discussion appropriately insist they are not. I am convinced that the
first concern for all involved is the safety of school children and the public. Indeed, the District
is obligated under state statute to make evaluations to “coordinate the siting of a new school with
the municipality in which the school is to be located, to: (a) avoid or mitigate existing and
potential traffic hazards, including consideration of the impacts between the new school and
future highways; and (b) to maximize school, student, and site safety.” U.C.A. 10-9a-305(4).

While the City can impose street improvement requirements on the District, those conditions and
exactions must meet three tests: 1) The requirements may provide for the minimum improve-
ments necessary to provide adequate public facilities to protect public safety as outlined in the
fire code and other relevant codes; 2) the City must not impose disproportionate burdens on the
District when considered in light of the burdens which are reasonably expected to be borne by
the City as a result of the proposed school development, standing alone; and 3) any required
street improvements must be reasonably necessary for the safety of school children.

                               Requirement to Pay Land Use Fees

Issue: Must the District pay a subdivision or site plan review fee when it submits an
application to the City for such a land use approval?

The District also asks if the City may charge fees for the review of a subdivision application
and/or a site plan. In support of the premise that no such fees can be charged, the District again
cites U.C.A. 10-9a-305, where in subsection (3)(c) it provides that a municipality may not
“require a district or charter school to pay fees not authorized by this section.” The specific fees
authorized by this section of the code include building inspection fees that might be charged if a
school district wishes to utilize municipal building inspectors (subsection (3)(d)) and reasonable
impact fees related to the burdens created by the proposed school project (subsection (3)(e)).
See Board of Educ. v. Sandy, par. 22.


Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 15 of 24 pages
In response the City cites U.C.A. 53A-20-108(2) which provides that when a school site is to be
selected and building plans made the municipality and the school district must “ . . . negotiate
any fees that might be charged by the local government entity in conjunction with a building
project.”

When attempting to interpret the meaning of statutes, they are to be construed to harmonize all
laws on related subjects and avoid conflicts. “We read the plain language of the statute as a
whole, and interpret its provisions in harmony with other statutes in the same chapter and related
chapters.” Miller v. Weaver, 2003 UT 12. These two statutes do not conflict if the provisions of
53A-20-108(2) are interpreted to mean that when a school site is being considered, the
municipality and district involved are to meet and negotiate the land use related building
inspection fees and/or impact fees associated with the building project, which are allowed under
U.C.A. 10-9a-305(3)(c). These are not the only fees that school districts must pay. Under the
recent holding of the Utah Supreme Court in Board of Educ. v. Sandy, storm drain fees may also
be assessed and other charges made, so the provisions of 53A-20-108(2) might also apply to such
fees, which are not land use fees. (Board of Educ. v. Sandy at par. 22). There are no doubt other
utility related fees which are not land use fees.

If these two statutes are considered in this manner, they do not conflict and each can be given its
clear meaning. The only land use fees that can be charged a school district are building
inspection fees (if the district uses city inspectors) and reasonable impact fees. “All other land
use fees are proscribed.”(emphasis added) - a specific statement related to this specific statute
made by the Court in Board of Educ. v. Sandy at par. 22. A municipality can charge some utility
fees and perhaps other fees, but it cannot charge a school district a subdivision approval fee, a
site plan review fee, or any other fee arising from a land use regulation except as authorized by
U.C.A. Section 10-9a-305.

                                            Conclusion

1. West Jordan City can require the Jordan School District to arrange for the provision of water
utilities for the new school site through the City. The resulting charges to the District must,
however, be reasonable. The City cannot require the District to connect to the City’s sewer
system if the nearest part of the sewer system is physically located more than 300 feet from the
school site.

2 and 3. While the City can impose street improvement requirements on the District, those
conditions and exactions must meet three tests: 1) The requirements may provide for the
minimum improvements necessary to provide adequate public facilities to protect public safety
as outlined in the fire code and other relevant codes; 2) the City must not impose
disproportionate burdens on the District when considered in light of the burdens which are
reasonably expected to be borne by the City as a result of the proposed school development,
standing alone; and 3) any required street improvements must be reasonably related to the safety
of school children.



Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 16 of 24 pages
4. The only land use fees that can be charged a school district are building inspection fees (if the
district uses city inspectors) and reasonable impact fees. All other land use fees are proscribed.

I appreciate the professional, thorough and competent manner in which the City and the District
and their respective counsel have assisted in the preparation of this opinion. The bottom line for
the most significant issues reviewed is that both the City and the District play an essential role in
protecting the safety and welfare of not only school children but members of the public at large.
I am confident that those I have dealt with in the preparation of this opinion will be able to make
decisions related to this matter that will reach an appropriate and sustainable compromise with
regard to these issues and the myriad of others that they must grapple with. They are individuals
characterized by competence, concern and good will.




Craig M. Call, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, 13-42-205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are




Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 17 of 24 pages
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.




Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 18 of 24 pages
                                    MAILING CERTIFICATE

Utah Code Annotated Section 13-43-206(10)(b) requires delivery of the attached advisory
opinion to the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with U.C.A.
Section 63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

       Ann Dowdle
       Risk/Real Property Manager
       West Jordan City
       8000 South Redwood Raod
       West Jordan, UT 84088

On this ___________ Day of March, 2007, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.



                               ______________________________________________________
                               Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 19 of 24 pages
                                             Appendix

                                  Some Relevant State Statutes

10-9a-305. Other entities required to conform to municipality's land use ordinances -
Exceptions - School districts and charter schools.

   (1) (a) Each county, municipality, school district, charter school, special district, and political
subdivision of the state shall conform to any applicable land use ordinance of any municipality
when installing, constructing, operating, or otherwise using any area, land, or building situated
within that municipality.

    (b) In addition to any other remedies provided by law, when a municipality's land use
ordinances is violated or about to be violated by another political subdivision, that municipality
may institute an injunction, mandamus, abatement, or other appropriate action or proceeding to
prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove the improper installation, improvement, or use.

  (2) (a) Except as provided in Subsection (3), a school district or charter school is subject to a
municipality's land use ordinances.

    (b) (i) Notwithstanding Subsection (3), a municipality may subject a charter school to
standards within each zone pertaining to setback, height, bulk and massing regulations, off-site
parking, curb cut, traffic circulation, and construction staging.

    (ii) The standards to which a municipality may subject a charter school under Subsection
(2)(b)(i) shall be objective standards only and may not be subjective.

    (iii) Except as provided in Subsection (7)(d), the only basis upon which a municipality may
deny or withhold approval of a charter school's land use application is the charter school's failure
to comply with a standard imposed under Subsection (2)(b)(i).

    (iv) Nothing in Subsection (2)(b)(iii) may be construed to relieve a charter school of an
obligation to comply with a requirement of an applicable building or safety code to which it is
otherwise obligated to comply.

   (3) A municipality may not:

    (a) impose requirements for landscaping, fencing, aesthetic considerations, construction
methods or materials, building codes, building use for educational purposes, or the placement or
use of temporary classroom facilities on school property;

    (b) except as otherwise provided in this section, require a school district or charter school to
participate in the cost of any roadway or sidewalk, or a study on the impact of a school on a
roadway or sidewalk, that is not reasonably necessary for the safety of school children and not




Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 20 of 24 pages
located on or contiguous to school property, unless the roadway or sidewalk is required to
connect an otherwise isolated school site to an existing roadway;

   (c) require a district or charter school to pay fees not authorized by this section;

    (d) provide for inspection of school construction or assess a fee or other charges for
inspection, unless the school district or charter school is unable to provide for inspection by an
inspector, other than the project architect or contractor, who is qualified under criteria established
by the state superintendent;

    (e) require a school district or charter school to pay any impact fee for an improvement
project that is not reasonably related to the impact of the project upon the need that the
improvement is to address; or

   (f) impose regulations upon the location of a project except as necessary to avoid
unreasonable risks to health or safety.

     (4) Subject to Section 53A-20-108, a school district or charter school shall coordinate the
siting of a new school with the municipality in which the school is to be located, to:

   (a) avoid or mitigate existing and potential traffic hazards, including consideration of the
impacts between the new school and future highways; and

   (b) to maximize school, student, and site safety.

   (5) Notwithstanding Subsection (3)(d), a municipality may, at its discretion:

    (a) provide a walk-through of school construction at no cost and at a time convenient to the
district or charter school; and

   (b) provide recommendations based upon the walk-through.

   (6) (a) Notwithstanding Subsection (3)(d), a school district or charter school shall use:

   (i) a municipal building inspector;

   (ii) a school district building inspector; or

   (iii) an independent, certified building inspector who is:

   (A) not an employee of the contractor;

   (B) approved by a municipal building inspector or a school district building inspector; and

   (C) licensed to perform the inspection that the inspector is requested to perform.



Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 21 of 24 pages
    (b) The approval under Subsection (6)(a)(iii)(B) may not be unreasonably withheld.

    (c) If a school district or charter school uses an independent building inspector under
Subsection (6)(a)(iii), the school district or charter school shall submit to the state superintendent
of public instruction, on a monthly basis during construction of the school building, a copy of
each inspection certificate regarding the school building.

  (7) (a) A charter school shall be considered a permitted use in all zoning districts within a
municipality.

   (b) Each land use application for any approval required for a charter school, including an
application for a building permit, shall be processed on a first priority basis.

   (c) Parking requirements for a charter school may not exceed the minimum parking
requirements for schools or other institutional public uses throughout the municipality.

   (d) If a municipality has designated zones for a sexually oriented business, or a business
which sells alcohol, a charter school may be prohibited from a location which would otherwise
defeat the purpose for the zone unless the charter school provides a waiver.

   (e) (i) A school district or a charter school may seek a certificate authorizing permanent
occupancy of a school building from:

     (A) the state superintendent of public instruction, as provided in Subsection 53A-20-104(3),
if the school district or charter school used an independent building inspector for inspection of
the school building; or

   (B) a municipal official with authority to issue the certificate, if the school district or charter
school used a municipal building inspector for inspection of the school building.

    (ii) A school district may issue its own certificate authorizing permanent occupancy of a
school building if it used its own building inspector for inspection of the school building, subject
to the notification requirement of Subsection 53A-20-104(3)(a)(ii).

    (iii) A charter school may seek a certificate authorizing permanent occupancy of a school
building from a school district official with authority to issue the certificate, if the charter school
used a school district building inspector for inspection of the school building.

    (iv) A certificate authorizing permanent occupancy issued by the state superintendent of
public instruction under Subsection 53A-20-104(3) or a school district official with authority to
issue the certificate shall be considered to satisfy any municipal requirement for an inspection or
a certificate of occupancy.




Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 22 of 24 pages
17A-3-315. Property of public agencies not assessable - Charges for services or materials
permitted - Property acquired after creation of district.

    (1) Except as provided in Subsection (2), a municipality may not levy an assessment against
property owned by the federal government, the state of Utah, any county, school district,
municipality or other political subdivision of the state of Utah or by any department or division
of any such public agency even though such property is benefited by improvements made, but
each such public agency is authorized to contract with the municipality for the making of such
improvement and for the payment of the cost thereof to the municipality. Nothing in this section
shall prevent a municipality from imposing or a public agency from paying reasonable charges
for any services or materials actually rendered or supplied by the municipality to the public
agency, including, by way of example and not in limitation, charges for water, lighting, or sewer
services.

    (2) An assessment may be levied and enforced against property acquired by a public agency
which is within a special improvement district created prior to the acquisition. Property acquired
by a public agency which is subject to the lien of an assessment at the time of acquisition shall
continue to be subject to such lien and to enforcement of the same against the property if the
assessment and interest accruing thereon is not paid when due.

53A-20-108. Notification to local government of intent to purchase school site or
construction of school building - Negotiation of fees - Confidentiality.

    (1) (a) A school district or charter school shall notify the affected local governmental entity
without delay prior to the purchase of a school site or construction of a school building of its
intent to purchase or construct.

    (b) Representatives of the local governmental entity and the school district or charter school
shall meet as soon as possible after delivery of the notice under Subsection (1)(a) to:

    (i) discuss concerns that each may have, including potential community impacts and site
safety;

   (ii) assess the availability of infrastructure for the site; and

   (iii) discuss any fees that might be charged by the local governmental entity in connection
with a building project.

    (2) Representatives of the local governmental entity and the school district or charter school
shall meet as soon as possible after the purchase of a school site to discuss concerns that each
may have, including potential community impacts, and to negotiate any fees that might be
charged by the local governmental entity in connection with a building project.

    (3) A local governmental entity may not increase a previously agreed-upon fee after the
district or charter school has signed contracts to begin construction.


Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 23 of 24 pages
    (4) Prior to the filing of a formal application by the affected school district or charter school,
a local governmental entity may not disclose information obtained from a school district or
charter school regarding the district's or charter school's consideration of, or intent to, purchase a
school site or construct a school building, without first obtaining the consent of the district or
charter school.




Advisory Opinion – Jordan School District/City of West Jordan
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 1, 2007 – page 24 of 24 pages
