                       Advisory Opinion #4
                             Parties: Dan Christensen and Sandy City
                                         Issued: August 8, 2006

                                          TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      B: Conditional Uses
                      R(viii): Other Topics (Appealing Land Use Decisions)

A conditional use permit may only be denied if the municipality finds that the
proposed use has detrimental effects that cannot be mitigated with reasonable
conditions. Appeals from land use decisions must exhaust administrative
remedies and follow procedures established by local ordinances and state law. A
municipality’s decision is entitled to a great deal of deference, and will be
sustained if it is supported by substantial evidence, and is not arbitrary, capricious,
or illegal.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                                    Advisory Opinion

Advisory Opinion Requested by:                Dan Christensen
Local Government Entity:                      Sandy City
Applicant for the Land Use Approval:          Dan Christensen and others
Project:                                      The Village at Park Avenue
                                              7585 – 7703 South Union Park Avenue
                                              Sandy, Utah
Date of this Advisory Opinion:                August 8, 2006

Issue: Would a court find that the approval of the preliminary development plan
and conditional use permit for mixed uses at the Village at Park Avenue was legal?

Review:

The request for an advisory opinion in this matter was received by the Office of the
Property Rights Ombudsman on June 5, 2006. A letter with the request and all the
attachments included was sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to Sandy City
on July 10, 2006. The letter was addressed to Diane Aubrey, City Recorder, at the
address shown on the Governmental Immunity Act Database at the Utah State
Department of Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code as required
by statute. The letter to the City Recorder was sent certified mail, with return receipt
requested, and was received by the City on July 11, 2006. A copy of the letter was also
sent to Michael Coulam, the Sandy City Director of Community Development.

My decision to proceed with the preparation of the opinion was made on July 28, 2006
and the parties were notified of that decision via a letter sent on that date.

Prior to the preparation of this opinion, I visited via telephone several times with Greg
Christensen, who represented the interests of the person requesting the opinion. I also
spoke with Perry Bolyard, an individual who has been involved in the process of review
for the Village at Park Avenue project and who is a plaintiff in some litigation against the
City which relates to the project. I also met with Mike Coulam, Gil Avellar, and Jim
McNulty, all of whom are planners in the Sandy Community Development Department
on August 3, 2006, where they made available to me a number of documents related to
the project which is the subject of this opinion. After narrowing the issues by this


Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                        Page 1 of 20
process, I sent an email to Mike Coulam, Perry Bolyard, and Greg Christensen asking for
input on issues raised. Greg responded with an analysis related to the evidence in the
record to support the issuance of the conditional use permit in this matter.

Record:

The parts of the record I have to review include:

   1.      Sandy City Land Development Code, particularly provisions related to
           development applications, appeals, conditional use permits, and the
           SD(Harada) Zone.
   2.      Minutes of the Planning Commission Meetings:
               June 10, 2003
               August 19, 2005
               July 7, 2005
               September 15, 2005
               September 21-22, 2005
               October 6, 2005
               December 1, 2005
               January 19, 2006
               February 2, 2006
               February 16, 2006
               May 4, 2006
   3.      Memorandums dated September 9, 2005: September 30, 2005; November 23,
           2006: January 11, 2006: February 8, 2006; and April 27, 2006 to the Planning
           Commission from the Community Development Staff
   4.      Synopsis of the Planning Commission meetings held for the Village at Park
           Avenue, undated, with Sandy City Logo on the first page.
   5.      The Village at Park Avenue Planning Commission chairman’s Talking Points,
           undated, with the Sandy City Logo on the first page.
   6.      Bound set of materials provided by Perry Bolyard, Chairman, Friends and
           Neighbors of Union Park. The first page is a letter dated March 17, 2006
           addressed to the Members of the Sandy City Council. There are five tabs with
           exhibits and information bound with that letter. A copy of this bound volume
           was in the files related to this project at the Sandy Community Development
           Offices. The copy I viewed was delivered to my office by Perry Bolyard in
           June of 2006.
   7.      Copy of email from Dennis Tenney to Phil Glenn and others, dated May 6,
           2006.
   8.      Board of Adjustment Application, dated June 2, 2006, filed by Friends and
           Neighbors of Union Park c/o Perry Bolyard. Seventeen page document
           including exhibits attached.



Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                        Page 2 of 20
   9.      Letter from Perry Bolyard, Chairman of Friends and Neighbors of Union
           Park, dated 2 June 2006, to the Sandy City Board of Adjustment.

I have also reviewed the following materials which are not part of the record, but
appropriate for my review:

   10.     Request for an Advisory Opinion filed with my office on June 1, 2006.
   11.     Copy of letter from Dan Christensen to Jeffrey N. Walker dated June 13,
           2006, including attachments. These attachments include a copy of Perry
           Bolyard’s June 2, 2006 letter to the Sandy City Council, a document titled
           “Response to Board of Adjustment Appeal”, a document entitled “Mitigating
           Design Changes Introduced by the Developer Benefiting Cottonwood
           Heights”, and a copy of section 15-29-10 from the Sandy City Land
           Development Code, SD (Harada) Zone.
   12.     Letter addressed to me from Greg Christensen of CMI Mortgage and
           Investment, dated June 1, 2006 and transmitted to be via email.
   13.     Letter addressed to Sandy City Council from Greg Christensen of CMI
           Mortgage and Investment, dated June 5, 2006.
   14.     Email to Craig Call from Greg Christensen, dated August 7, 2006, providing
           the developer’s response to my questions sent by email on August 3, 2006,

Facts:

   1.      The Village at Park Avenue (the project) is a multi-use development involving
           four multi-story condominium buildings plus a 5 ½ story commercial office
           building.
   2.      The project is located at approximately 7700 South on Union Park Boulevard
           (1300 East) in Sandy.
   3.      The site for the project is currently occupied by single family residences that
           face Union Park Boulevard.
   4.      The terrain of the site is quite steep to the East, and there is a dramatic fall in
           elevation between the Union Park Boulevard frontage to the West and the
           Creek Road frontage to the East.
   5.      The site was assembled by acquiring a series of adjacent residential lots and
           properties that are located between Union Park Boulevard and Creek Road.
   6.      Creek Road approximately parallels Union Park Boulevard and runs generally
           North and South on the East side of the project site.
   7.      The project site is located on the West side of Creek Road. On the East side
           of Creek Road is a row of single family residences facing the project to the
           West, across Creek Road. Beyond those residences to the East is a single-
           family residential neighborhood.




Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                        Page 3 of 20
   8.      The project is located in the SD(Harada) Zone (SDH Zone), which is a zoning
           district regulated under section 15-20-10 of the Sandy City Development
           Code. (SCDC)
   9.      The SDH Zone requires that all site plans for proposed development shall be
           reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission.
   10.     Under the applicable ordinances the project was required to be reviewed by
           the staff of the City (SCDC 15-06-02(A)). The same provision also allows the
           Community Development Department Director to require that the Planning
           Commission also review the site plan.
   11.     Additional development procedures are provided for in Chapter 15-11 SCDC,
           which at Section 15-11-4 describes the preliminary review and approval
           process. Whether or not the preliminary review process has involved the
           Planning Commission, final review can be accomplished by the staff under
           Section 15-11-5 and related provisions.
   12.     The SDH Zone provides at SCDC 15-29-10(d)(1) that “buildings shall be
           erected to a height no greater than 35 feet from average grade, except for the
           following. With the anticipated uses of this property, structures oriented
           towards Union Park Avenue may exceed 35 feet in height, as may be
           approved by the Planning Commission.”
   13.     The SDH Zone also provides that proposed mixed use, residential and office
           developments require a conditional use permit. SCDC 15-20-10(c).
   14.     Conditional use permits are reviewed under the provisions of SCDC 15-05-07.
   15.     SCDC Section 15-05-07(C) outlines standards that are to be used to evaluate
           conditional use permit applications. It states that conditional use permits
           shall be granted only when evidence is presented that establishes five specific
           criteria noted in the ordinance.
   16.     The project was discussed in at least eleven meetings of the Sandy City
           Planning Commission held between June 19, 2003 and May 4, 2006.
   17.     The Planning Commission voted to grant preliminary approval of the site plan
           for the project on February 16, 2006.
   18.     The Planning Commission also voted to grant a conditional use for the project
           on February 16, 2006.
   19.     Under SCDC 15-11-02(J), appeals arising from the development process may
           be made under Chapter 15-01. That chapter provides for the Board of
           Adjustments to hear appeals from decisions applying the zoning ordinance.
           SCDC (15-01-30(A)(1)).
   20.     Under SCDC 15-05-07(G), appeals may be made to the City Council from
           decisions regarding conditional use permits.
   21.     Appeals related to conditional use permits must be confined to the
           administrative record developed by the Planning Commission. (SCDC 15-05-
           07(G)(3)).




Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                        Page 4 of 20
   22.     On appeal, the City Council can override any approval or disapproval of a
           conditional use permit, impose additional conditions, or remand the appeal
           back to the Planning Commission. (SCDC 15-05-07(G)(5)).
   23.     The decision of the City Council related to the appeal of a conditional use
           permit issue is final. (SCDC 15-05-07(G)(6)). It can then be appealed to the
           district court under Utah Code Annotated Section 10-9a-801 within 30 days of
           the date the decision is final.
   24.     On March 17, 2006 the Friends and Neighbors of Union Park, composed of
           citizens and residents in the area, filed an appeal to the City Council of the
           decisions made by the Planning Commission to grant the conditional use
           permit.
   25.     No appeal was filed on the preliminary approval of the project to the Sandy
           City Board of Adjustment within 30 days of the date that the February 16,
           2006 decision to grant preliminary development plan approval became final.
   26.     Subsequent to the preliminary approval by the Planning Commission, the
           developer of the project revised the site by reducing the land area that had
           been previously included in the site plan and proposed an alternative plan for
           preliminary approval to the Planning Commission
   27.     On May 4, 2006 the Planning Commission voted to grant approval to an
           alternative preliminary development plan for the project
   28.     On May 4, 2006, the Planning Commission voted to approve an amended
           conditional use permit for the alternative preliminary development plan for the
           project.
   29.     On May 9, 2006, the appeal to the City Council related to the Planning
           Commission’s February 16, 2006 conditional use permit decision was heard.
   30.     On May 30, 2006, the City Council again reviewed the appeal.
   31.     On June 2, 2006, the Friends and Neighbors of Union Park appealed the May
           4 decision of the Planning Commission to approve the alternative preliminary
           development plan for the Union Park Avenue project. The appeal was made
           to the Sandy Board of Adjustment.
   32.     On June 6, 2006 the City Council voted to approve the conditional use permit
           for the project as related to the February 16, 2006 preliminary development
           plan approval, with some revisions.
   33.     On July 5, 2006, the Friends and Neighbors of Union Park LLC filed suit
           against Sandy City in the Third District Court, alleging that the decision by
           the City Council to approve the conditional use permit was arbitrary,
           capricious, and illegal.
   34.     A hearing before the Sandy Board of Adjustment related to the appeal of the
           May 4 preliminary development plan approval of the project has been
           scheduled for August 10, 2006.




Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                        Page 5 of 20
Analysis:

Factors:

This is an administrative decision. Administrative land use decisions will be overturned
by a court if:

   1.       they are properly within the jurisdiction of the court to review, and
   2.       they are not supported by substantial evidence in the record, or
   3.       they do not conform with the mandatory requirements of existing statute or
            ordinance, or
   4.       the discretion allowed by the ordinance and/or state statute is exceeded.

1. Does a court have jurisdiction to hear the matter?:

This advisory opinion was requested by the developer of The Village at Park Avenue to
determine whether or not the approval of the project by the city would be ruled invalid by
a court of law. First of all, we must decide if a court would have jurisdiction to hear the
matter in the first place.

This issue hinges on two subsets. 1) were necessary local appeals processes exhausted?
And 2) was the final decision in the local appeals process appealed to the court in a
timely manner?

In this matter, there were two concurrent decisions made with regard to the development
at each stage in the approval process. The first was to grant preliminary approval of the
project development plan. The second was the granting of a conditional use permit for
the mixed-use aspects of the development.

The preliminary approval of the development plan included decisions about building
heights, placement, setbacks, densities, and various other aspects of the plan. The great
majority of discretionary acts taken by the City in the development review process were
part of the preliminary development plan approval process, not the conditional use permit
approval process. The conditional use permit only dealt with the potential of the project
to include both residential and commercial uses – the “mixed use” issue.

Each of these two issues has a different appeals path set forth in the ordinances.

Appeal of the preliminary approval of the development plan

The preliminary approval decision is an administrative decision applying the zoning
ordinance. A person challenging this decision must appeal that decision administratively
before filing a legal action. See Patterson v. American Fork City, 2003 UT 7. Case law,


Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                        Page 6 of 20
state statute, and the Sandy Development Code provide for that appeal to be made to the
Board of Adjustment (which is the appeal authority required by state statute). See
Bennion v. Sundance Development, 897 P.2d 1232 (Utah 1995); Utah Code Annotated
Sec. 10-9a-701; and SCDC 15-01-30(A) and 33(A)(1).

In this matter, the preliminary approval of the project by the Planning Commission on
February 16, 2006 was not appealed to the Board of Adjustment. Since that appeal is a
necessary step in the requirement to exhaust administrative remedies, those challenging
the project have lost the chance to take that matter to court. The granting of that
preliminary site plan approval is at this time not subject to review by the court or the
Board of Adjustment. The February 16 approval is legal and may not be challenged at
this time. See Bennion, which held that a person may not challenge an administrative
land use decision in court if no appeal was made to the board of adjustments and Brendle
v. City of Draper, 937 P.2d 1044, 1047 (Utah Ct. App. 1997), which held that appeals
from city decisions must be timely made, in strict accordance with the deadlines imposed
in local ordinances. See SCDC 15-01-33(A)(2)

Although the February 16, 2006 approval of the preliminary development plan was not
appealed, the Planning Commission made another decision on May 4, 2006, granting
preliminary approval to an alternative plan for the project. The approval granted on May
4, 2006 was appealed in a timely manner to the Board of Adjustment. Issues raised with
regard to the May 4 approvals are therefore subject to review by the Board, and the
decision of the Board may be appealed to the District Court within 30 days of the date the
decision by the Board becomes final.

Appeal of the approval of a conditional use permit.

The appeals path for conditional use permit actions is not to the Board of Adjustment
under the Sandy City Development Code, which provides in 15-07-07(G) that such
decisions are appealed to the City Council.

The decision by the Planning Commission to approve the conditional use permit allowing
mixed uses in the project on February 16, 2006 was appealed to the City Council within
the time allowed by the ordinance. The City Council’s June 6 decision to approve the
conditional use permit with revisions to the conditions imposed was properly appealed
within the time period allowed on July 5, 2006. All issues related to the decision to
approve the conditional use are also therefore properly before the court and can be
resolved by the court through the litigation process.

No appeal has apparently been filed from the decision by the Planning Commission to
approve a conditional use permit for the alternative plan approved on May 4, 2006.




Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                        Page 7 of 20
Summary – issues that remain unresolved:

The height, density, setbacks, and other issues decided on February 16, 2006 by the
Planning Commission which are part of the preliminary development plan approval are
final since they were not timely appealed to the Board of Adjustment.

The Board of Adjustment may review the May 4, 2006 decision by the Planning
Commission to grant approval of an alternative preliminary plan. If that decision is not
supported by substantial evidence in the record, does not comply with mandatory
provisions of the law, or exceeds the discretion afforded the Planning Commission in
ordinance, then the Board may overturn that decision. A person potentially aggrieved by
the decision by the Board of Adjustment may then appeal that decision to the district
court within 30 days of the date the Board’s decision is final. See Utah Code Annotated,
10-9a-801.

A court may review the June 6 decision by the City Council to grant a conditional use
permit for mixed uses in the project since that matter was appealed to the district court
within 30 days of the date it became final. If that decision was not supported by
substantial evidence in the record, did not comply with mandatory provisions of the law,
or exceeds the discretion afforded the City Council in ordinance, then the district court
will overturn that decision. The effect of a negative decision against the conditional use
permit in the court would not affect height, density, setbacks, etc., but only the
developer’s ability to have mixed uses in the project.

What Deference is Given by the Courts to Administrative Land Use Decisions?

All land use decisions are entitled to a great deal of judicial deference:

       This court has long recognized that municipal land use decisions should be upheld
       unless those decisions are arbitrary and capricious or otherwise illegal. Gayland v.
       Salt Lake County, 11 Utah 2d 307, 358 P.2d 633, 636 (Utah 1961) ; Marshall v.
       Salt Lake City, 105 Utah 111, 141 P.2d 704, 709 (Utah 1943) . Indeed, municipal
       land use decisions as a whole are generally entitled to a "great deal of deference."
       Springville Citizens for a Better Cmty. v. City of Springville, 1999 UT 25, P23,
       979 P.2d 332 . However, in specific cases the determination of whether a
       particular land use decision is arbitrary and capricious has traditionally depended
       on whether the decision involves the exercise of legislative, administrative, or
       quasi-judicial powers. When a municipality makes a land use decision as a
       function of its legislative powers, we have held that such a decision is not
       arbitrary and capricious so long as the grounds for the decision are "reasonably
       debatable." Marshall, 141 P.2d at 709 (reviewing municipal zoning decision as
       legislative function and employing reasonably debatable standard); Smith Inv. Co.


Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                         Page 8 of 20
       v. Sandy City, 958 P.2d 245, 252 (Utah Ct. App. 1998) (same). When a land use
       decision is made as an exercise of administrative or quasi-judicial powers,
       however, we have held that such decisions are not arbitrary and capricious if they
       are supported by "substantial evidence." Xanthos v. Bd. of Adjustment of Salt
       Lake City, 685 P.2d 1032, 1034-35 (Utah 1984) (reviewing board of adjustment
       decision as an administrative act and employing substantial evidence standard).

Bradley v. Payson City Corp., 2003 UT 16, P10. The definition of “substantial evidence”
in land use jurisprudence is:

       We have defined substantial evidence as "that quantum and quality of relevant
       evidence that is adequate to convince a reasonable mind to support a conclusion."
       First Nat'l Bank of Boston v. County Bd. of Equalization, 799 P.2d 1163, 1165
       (Utah 1990).

Bradley, at P15. In a recent case, the Utah Supreme Court indicated that “substantial
evidence” can be found where there were repeated hearings and meetings, many
submittals of information, and extended public discussion. If the required documentation
was before the land use authority and “numerous conditions” are imposed, then
substantial evidence will be found to exist for the decision:

       In the case at bar, the undisputed facts demonstrate that the City's decision was
       not arbitrary or capricious but was the result of careful consideration and was
       supported by substantial evidence. Of significant import, consideration of the
       P.U.D. spanned nearly a year and a half and involved more than a dozen separate
       meetings wherein public input was heard, objections voiced, and modifications to
       the P.U.D. imposed. Although certain materials were not timely submitted, the
       majority of the required documentation was before the planning commission and
       the city council when the P.U.D. ultimately was approved. That documentation, as
       well as the other evidence before the commission and the council, supported
       approval of the P.U.D. Moreover, throughout the approval process and in an effort
       to meet the P.U.D. requirements, the city council required Peay to satisfy
       numerous conditions concerning the proposed development, all of which Peay
       eventually fulfilled. In short, the undisputed evidence reveals without question
       that substantial evidence supported the City's decision and that a reasonable
       person could have reached the same decision as the City. We conclude, therefore,
       that the City's decision to approve the P.U.D. was not arbitrary or capricious.

Springville Citizens v. Springville, 1999 UT 25, P25-30. In a situation that parallels the
facts in the Springville case, substantial evidence would likely be deemed to exist.

The second inquiry is whether or not administrative actions comply with the mandatory
provisions of local ordinances and state statutes:


Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                        Page 9 of 20
       This conclusion (that substantial evidence exists to support the decision) does not
       end our inquiry, however. Under Utah Code Ann. § 10-9-1001(3)(b), we must
       also determine whether the City's decision was illegal. Plaintiffs argue
       convincingly that the City's decision to approve the P.U.D. was illegal because the
       City violated its own ordinances during the approval process. Plaintiffs highlight
       that compliance with the city ordinances at issue was, under the City's own
       legislatively enacted standard, mandatory. Plaintiffs point to Springville City
       ordinance 11-10-101, which states, "For purposes of this Title, certain words and
       terms are defined as follows: . . . (4) Words 'shall' and 'must' are always
       mandatory." (Emphasis added.)

       Title 11 of the Springville ordinances, entitled "Development Code," details the
       procedures and requirements for P.U.D. approval, including those that plaintiffs
       contend the City violated. Those procedures and requirements, as indicated in the
       ordinances quoted above, frequently are prefaced by the words "shall" and
       "must." Thus, according to the City's own rule of interpretation, compliance with
       the P.U.D. procedures and requirements containing these words was mandatory.

       In its ruling granting summary judgment in favor of the City, the district court
       appeared to recognize the mandatory nature of the city ordinances but concluded
       nonetheless that substantial compliance with those ordinances was sufficient. In
       fact, one of the express legal principles upon which the district court premised its
       ruling was that "the city's actions approving the PUD must be upheld if those
       actions are in substantial compliance with the city's ordinances."

       The district court's use of the substantial compliance doctrine in the face of
       ordinances that are expressly mandatory was erroneous. While substantial
       compliance with matters in which a municipality has discretion may indeed
       suffice, it does not when the municipality itself has legislatively removed any
       such discretion. The fundamental consideration in interpreting legislation,
       whether at the state or local level, is legislative intent. See Board of Educ. v. Salt
       Lake County, 659 P.2d 1030, 1030 (Utah 1983). Application of the substantial
       compliance doctrine where the ordinances at issue are explicitly mandatory
       contravenes the unmistakable intent of those ordinances.

       Municipal zoning authorities are bound by the terms and standards of applicable
       zoning ordinances and are not at liberty to make land use decisions in derogation
       {979 P.2d 338} thereof. See Thurston v. Cache County, 626 P.2d 440, 444-45
       (Utah 1981). The irony of the City's position on appeal is readily apparent: the
       City contends that it need only "substantially comply" with ordinances it has
       legislatively deemed to be mandatory. Stated simply, the City cannot "change the
       rules halfway through the game." Brendle v. City of Draper, 937 P.2d 1044, 1048


Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                        Page 10 of 20
       (Utah Ct. App. 1997). The City was not entitled to disregard its mandatory
       ordinances. Because the City did not properly comply with the ordinances
       governing P.U.D. approval, we conclude that under Utah Code Ann. § 10-9-
       1001(3)(b) , the City's decision approving the P.U.D. was illegal.

Springville Citizens, at P25-30 (language in italics added). Thus, if the City of Sandy’s
actions are clearly not in compliance with mandatory provisions of the ordinances, they
will be overturned in the courts. However, if the issue is one of discretion, the courts will
usually support local decisions if made within the guidelines the ordinances provide.

Standard of Review

This leads us to the precedents the courts have set up to interpret the ordinances and the
general plan. In interpreting and applying the ordinances the standard is:

       A municipality's land use decisions are entitled to a great deal of deference. See
       Xanthos v. Board of Adjustment, 685 P.2d 1032, 1034 (Utah 1984); Triangle Oil,
       Inc. v. North Salt Lake Corp., 609 P.2d 1338, 1339-40 (Utah 1980); Cottonwood
       Heights Citizens Ass'n v. Board of Comm'rs, 593 P.2d 138, 140 (Utah 1979);
       Naylor v. Salt Lake City Corp., 17 Utah 2d 300, 410 P.2d 764 (Utah 1966).
       Therefore, "the courts generally will not so interfere with the actions of a city
       council unless its action is outside of its authority or is so wholly discordant to
       reason and justice that its action must be deemed capricious and arbitrary and thus
       in violation of the complainant's rights." Triangle Oil, 609 P.2d at 1340. Indeed,
       the statute that forms the basis of this appeal requires the courts to "presume that
       land use decisions and regulations are valid." Utah Code Ann. § 10-9-1001(3)(a) .
       However, this discretion is not completely unfettered, and the presumption is not
       absolute. If a municipality's land use decision is arbitrary, capricious, or illegal, it
       will not be upheld. See id. § 10-9-1001(3)(b).

Springville Citizens, P23.

       Our "primary goal in interpreting statutes is to give effect to the legislative intent,
       as evidenced by the plain language, in light of the purpose the statute was meant
       to achieve."

Foutz v. City of S. Jordan, 2004 UT 75, P 11, 100 P.3d 1171 (internal quotation omitted).
Cited in Mouty v. Sandy City, 2005 UT 41.

       The courts shall:
       (i) presume that a decision, ordinance, or regulation made under the authority of
       this chapter is valid; and



Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                        Page 11 of 20
       (ii) determine only whether or not the decision, ordinance, or regulation is
       arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.
       (b) A decision, ordinance, or regulation involving the exercise of legislative
       discretion is valid if the decision, ordinance, or regulation is reasonably debatable
       and not illegal.
       (c) A final decision of a land use authority or an appeal authority is valid if the
       decision is supported by substantial evidence in the record and is not arbitrary,
       capricious, or illegal.
       (d) A determination of illegality requires a determination that the decision,
       ordinance, or regulation violates a law, statute, or ordinance in effect at the time
       the decision was made or the ordinance or regulation adopted.

Utah Code Ann. 17-27a-801(3)(a). In determining whether the “decision, ordinance or
regulation” violates existing law, the courts have given the following guidelines:

       To resolve conflicts in interpretation of statutes or ordinances, we look to well-
       settled rules of statutory construction. First, "in cases of apparent conflict between
       provisions of the same statute, it is the Court's duty to harmonize and reconcile
       statutory provisions, since the Court cannot presume that the legislature intended
       to create a conflict." Madsen v. Brown, 701 P.2d 1086, 1089-90 (Utah 1985).

       Further, "a provision treating a matter specifically prevails over an incidental
       reference made thereto in a provision treating another issue, not because one
       provision has more force than another, but because the legislative mind is
       presumed to have stated its intent when it focused on that particular issue." Id. at
       1090.

Bennion v. Sundance Development, 897 P.2d 1232 (Utah 1995). These citations clearly
indicate that the courts will give deference to local government entities where that is
appropriate.

There is another context, however, where local discretion is limited in Utah
jurisprudence:

       "In interpreting the meaning of . . . ordinance[s], we are guided by the standard
       rules of statutory construction." Brendle v. City of Draper, 937 P.2d 1044, 1047
       (Utah Ct. App. 1997). However, "because zoning ordinances are in derogation of
       a property owner's common-law right to unrestricted use of his or her property,
       provisions therein restricting property uses should be strictly construed, and
       provisions permitting property uses should be liberally construed in favor of the
       property owner." Patterson v. Utah County Bd. of Adjustment, 893 P.2d 602, 606
       (Utah Ct. App. 1995). We first look to the plain language of the ordinance to
       guide our interpretation. See Brendle, 937 P.2d at 1047. Only if the ordinance is


Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                       Page 12 of 20
        ambiguous need we look to legislative history to ascertain legislative intent. See
        id.

Brown v. Sandy City Board of Adj., 957 P.2d 207. Based on these guidelines, a third
party has an uphill battle to challenge local decisions where the city or county has made a
land use decision. The courts will “seek to uphold” local discretion. Where there is real
ambiguity, issues in conflict will be resolved “in favor of the property owner.” It would
seem that the third parties thus have two strikes against them when challenging local
decisions that favor landowners under Utah’s land use jurisprudence.

This is not to say that neighbors and others challenging local decisions always lose.
Some prominent cases, including the Springville Citizens case, indicate otherwise. But
for our present purposes, I will discuss the challenges to the City’s review of the
applications filed with the following guidelines:

   1.      The City’s approval must conform to the provisions of the ordinance and state
           statute.
   2.      If any part of the approval clearly does not comply with the ordinances and
           state statutes, the approval is therefore invalid.
   3.      If the provisions of the ordinance or statutes are not clear and the issue of
           compliance is one of interpretation, then the City will be given the benefit of
           the doubt under the precedents above so long as the interpretation used by the
           City is logical and reasonable.
   4.      Where ambiguities exist, the City also has a duty to resolve ambiguities in
           favor of the property owner.

2. Were the decisions by the Planning Commission and City Council in this matter
supported by substantial evidence in the record?

Preliminary development plan approval – May 4, 2006

As was the case in the Springville Citizens case, there were extensive discussions held in
the process of approval for the project, a multitude of documents produced, and repeated
hearings and meetings were held. The issue of height of the buildings was discussed
extensively, particularly by the time that a second preliminary development plan was
presented to the Planning Commission in May of 2006. By that time, the conditional use
permit had been appealed to the City Council, and the concerns of the neighbors and
other third parties were well known by the Commission as it deliberated.

Where the February 16, 2006 approval was vested by May 4, and where the May 4
decision was to actually scale back from the February 16 plan in density and impact, it
would be difficult to find that there was not substantial evidence to support the reduction
in the February 16 version of the project’s impact occasioned by the May 4 approval of a


Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                       Page 13 of 20
less-intensive plan. To challenge this decision, those bringing the appeal must show that
there was no substantial evidence to support a scaling back of the project, which puts
them in an ironic position. They would have to argue that all the evidence presented in
that review process was that the project should be more dramatically scaled back, but not
less dramatically scaled back. I do not believe a court would opt to second-guess the
local land use authority in that context.

Even absent the factor that the May 4 decision would be reviewed in light of the fact that
the February 16 decision was final and unappealable, I believe that a court would not
upset the local government’s discretion in this matter. Again, because of the volume of
material presented, the extended discussion over three years, the give-and-take that
occurred as the project evolved, and the deliberate manner in which the review occurred
would work to support its approval, as it did in the Springville Citizens case.

The most contentious aspects of the project are not really quantifiable in terms of expert
witnesses and evidence. The height issue is a judgment call, for example, and there are
no scientific statements in the record about what can be quantified as “too tall” and thus
harmful to the general welfare. In light of the guidelines cited above for judicial
deference, I do not believe a court would impose its judgment on local land use decision-
makers where there are no clear rules in the ordinances. Again, the precedent is "because
zoning ordinances are in derogation of a property owner's common-law right to
unrestricted use of his or her property, provisions therein restricting property uses should
be strictly construed, and provisions permitting property uses should be liberally
construed in favor of the property owner." Brown.

3. Did the decisions comply with mandatory provisions of the City ordinances and
state law?

There is mandatory language in a provision in the Conditional Use Permits section of the
land use ordinances at SCDC 15-05-07(C) that reads:

       Determination. Uses other than permitted use shall not be allowed. However, the
       Planning Commission may allow a use to be located within any district in which
       the particular use is allowed as a conditional use by this Code if it determines the
       use is appropriate after due consideration and evaluation. In authorizing any
       conditional use, the Planning Commission shall impose such requirements and
       conditions necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and the public
       welfare. The conditional use permit shall not be approved unless the evidence
       presented is such as to establish:
       1.      That the proposed use of the particular location is necessary or desirable to
               provide a service or facility which will contribute to the general well-
               being of the community and the neighborhood; and



Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                       Page 14 of 20
       2.      That such use will not, under the circumstances of that particular case, be
               detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons residing or
               working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in the
               vicinity; and
       3.      That the proposed use will comply with regulations and conditions
               specified in this Code for such use; and
       4.      that the proposed use will conform to the intent of the Sandy City
               Comprehensive Plan; and
       5.      That conditions imposed by the Planning Commission shall be based upon
               guidelines described in his Section or any special conditions or
               requirements as may be specified elsewhere in this Code.

The state code also provides some mandatory guidelines:

        (1) A land use ordinance may include conditional uses and provisions for
       conditional uses that require compliance with standards set forth in an applicable
       ordinance.
       (2) (a) A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are proposed,
       or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of
       the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards.
       (b) If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
       cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the imposition of reasonable
       conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use
       may be denied.

Utah Code Ann. Sec. 10-9a-507. Based on the provisions of the Sandy City ordinance,
a conditional use permit can only be approved if there is evidence to establish the five
factors outlined in the ordinance. This seems to place the burden on the applicant to
provide substantial evidence to support the approval of the conditional use permit. Since
this provision does not require the Planning Commission to enter findings on the record,
however, identifying that evidence and finding it to be substantial and applicable, then a
court would be able to review the record and determine if there is sufficient evidence to
establish the requirements of the ordinance were met, even thought the Planning
Commission did not do so specifically.

The Planning Commission did find:

   1. Development of this property will further the goals of the Sandy City General
      Plan for residential and commercial development in the area.
   2. Development of this property will eliminate and improve a presently
      underdeveloped parcel of land and provide new economic opportunities in the
      ares.



Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                       Page 15 of 20
Minutes of the Sandy City Planning Commission, February 16, 2006, at page 3. Identical
language is found in the May 4, 2006 approval of the alternative preliminary
development plan by the Planning Commission and the June 9, 2006 City Council
approval of the conditional use permit for the project. While the language of these
findings does not parallel the ordinance precisely, these findings are helpful in coming to
the conclusion that there was sufficient evidence presented to establish the five criteria.
There are several large piles of paper associated with the review that would have to be
plowed through to determine if all of the criteria were supported by some evidence
presented, and the developer has offered his opinion, backed up from the record, that the
criteria are established in the record.

That exhaustive inquiry may not be necessary in this case, however, since the provisions
of the ordinance only prevail if not superseded by state statute. In this case the state
statute does supersede the general tone of the ordinance and the burdens on applicants
that the ordinance seems to impose. The state statute indicates that a conditional use
“shall” be approved if reasonable conditions can be imposed to mitigate the anticipated
detrimental effects of the use in accordance with applicable standards (in the ordinance.)

When read together, it would appear that the ordinance is necessary and helpful in
identifying uses that are to be considered as conditional uses in the ordinance. It also
provides guidelines to identify and mitigate the detrimental effects of the proposed use, if
the reviewing land use authority chooses to use them. But the state statute was written to
limit very general and wide-ranging forays into nebulous concepts, and requires a more
defined and specific approach in reviewing conditional use permit applications.

In dealing with a conditional use application, the reviewing authority is to:

           1) identify detrimental effects of the proposed use, and then
           2) determine whether those effects can be mitigated with reasonable
              conditions.

If the detrimental effects can be mitigated, the land use authority must approve the
conditional use. If they cannot, and substantial evidence in the record demonstrates that
they cannot, then the permit can be denied.

One can review the record of this matter with some diligence, however, and find no
mention in the oral comments made or the written protests filed of the detrimental effects
of mixing residential and commercial uses at this site. The staff reports say little, except
that a document entitled “Planning Commission Chairman’s Talking Points” states: “A
mixed use development including residential and office uses is a conditional use in the
SD (Harada) zone. There’s a synergistic relationship between land uses in this vicinity,
thus creating a truly horizontal mixed use area . . . “



Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                       Page 16 of 20
If, in the record, there is no evidence of what the detrimental effects of mixed use
developments are, and no evidence that those detrimental effects cannot be mitigated,
then the conditional use permit must be approved under state law. In this case, the
conditional use permit was approved by the Planning Commission on February 16 and
supported, after changes were made in the project, by the City Council on June 6.

To be successful, those challenging the approval of the conditional use are restricted to
the record established by the Planning Commission and the City Council. If approval of
a conditional use is to be overturned, the record must show what the detrimental effects
were and how they could not be mitigated. Since the record is devoid of any argument
about the detrimental effects of allowing mixed uses as opposed to requiring that the
entire project be either residential or office uses, the challenge to the conditional use
permit must fail. Those speaking or writing against the project in the record talk about a
number of detrimental effects of the proposed project, such as its height, bulk, density,
etc., but do not address how any of those detrimental effects would be different if the
project were entirely residential or entirely office rather than mixed in uses.

Looking at the record in the light most favorable to challenging the conditional use
permit approval, one can only find two implied detriments of mixing residential and
office uses: the negatives associated with commercial uses that might occur before 6 a.m.
or after 10 a.m. (condition 11 on the Feb 16 and May 4 approvals) and the clutter that
might occur if there are not adequate sign controls (condition 16 on May 4 and condition
17 on Feb 16). There appear to be some general statements in the Feb 16 Planning
Commission minutes on page 7 that the changing of the proposed plan to eliminate
80,000 square feet of retail space would eliminate parking, reduce traffic, and increase
landscaping, so perhaps that was part of the mitigating process related to mixed uses, but
that was not part of the final approval since that part of the proposed project was
eliminated.

The litigation filed in this matter to challenge the conditional use permit contains many
allegations about building heights, densities, setbacks, and other such impacts of the
project, but does not explain how those are issues, which are clearly related to the
preliminary project approval (not before the court), also relate to the conditional use
permit to allow mixed uses (the only issue before the court). The complaint misstates the
issue:

       Under the substantial evidence test, the City must show that its decision was
       based on a quantum and quality of relevant evidence that is adequate to convince
       a reasonable mind to support its conclusion that the conditional use permit
       allowing building heights in excess of 148 percent greater than the maximum
       height of 35 feet should have been granted.




Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                       Page 17 of 20
Complaint filed July 5, 2006 in the Salt Lake City Third District Court in Friends and
Neighbors of Union Park, L.L.C., v. Sandy City, as Case No. 069091117, at paragraph 32.
Such a statement might be appropriate and relevant in a challenge to the preliminary
development plan approval granted by the Planning Commission, but that issue is not
before the court in the case where the language occurs. The record of this matter
indicates that there is no conditional use issue in the building height matter. The
conditional use is only about mixing the residential and office uses, and neither the
complaint nor the record ties the height issue to the mixed use issue.

Indeed, it is possible that the evidence in the record will show that the particular concerns
of the plaintiffs in the legal action challenging the conditional use permit approval are
mitigated by the mixed use nature of the project, and not aggravated by the allowing of
mixed uses. Office and commercial uses, for example, are typically daytime uses and
thus may intrude less on the privacy of the neighbors. Residential uses were clearly
criticized in the record as intrusive on privacy. The hours of the office uses are limited in
the conditions imposed by the planning commission and city council, for example. The
court might find that the conditional use permit thus acts to soften the impact of the
project as compared to one with 100% residential use, and the plaintiff’s arguments in the
record to paint the residential uses harshly could work against them in arguing that the
conditional mixed uses would actually harm them.

4. Did the decisions exceed the discretion of the land use authority?

The SDH Zone allows the Planning Commission, without any restrictions, to modify the
height requirements of buildings that face Union Park Boulevard. See SCDC 15-29-
10(d)(1). Since land use decisions are entitled to great deference, and any ambiguities
therein interpreted “liberally in favor of the use of property”, I believe a court would
uphold the decision by the Planning Commission to approve the proposed heights and
other aspects of the May 4 preliminary development plan. I believe the court would also
uphold similar provisions of the February 16, 2006 preliminary development plan
approval for the same reasons, were that issue not already rendered moot by the failure to
file a timely appeal.

While such an analysis is not essential to make the decision legal, the court would likely
be influenced by considering that the development was proposed with structures that
were higher and more massive in its original configuration, and was reduced in size,
height, and bulk over the process of review. Since the Planning Commission and the
City Council’s deliberative process resulted in mitigation of the impact of the structures,
although not eliminating that impact, I would conclude that a court would find substantial
evidence to support the decision to allow the height that was approved.




Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                        Page 18 of 20
Conclusion of the Advisory Opinion:

The conditional use permit approved for the Village at Park Avenue is valid, in that the
only detrimental effects hinted at in the record (that is the tendency for mixed uses to
have cluttered signage, extended hours, and retail-style activities) were all mitigated as
the project evolved. There were no negative aspects of the mixed use that were identified
in the record and not mitigated.

The preliminary development plan approval for the project that was granted on February
16, 2006 was not appealed in a timely manner and is therefore legal and valid.

The preliminary development plan approval of May 4, 2006 is also valid, because that
approval acted to lessen the impacts from the February 16 approval and thus was even
supported by the evidence presented by those challenging that decision. There is no
evidence in the record supporting a more intensive development; both the applicant and
those opposing the project argued to reduce its impact, so abundant evidence presented in
the process of approval over three years supported a reduction in intensity. There was
also sufficient evidence in the process of a three-year review of the project (as in the
Springville Citizen case) to support approval of the alternative plan.

The Planning Commission’s decision to once again approve the height of the project on
May 4 was also within its discretion, as the ordinance places no limit on the Planning
Commission’s discretion as to the height issue. The February 16 decision was already
vested and final. That additional factor also supports the Planning Commission’s
exercise of its discretion as to the building height.




Craig M. Call, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, 13-43-205. It does
not constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or
policy of the State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed
are arrived at based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this
specific matter, and may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in
another matter where the facts and circumstances are different or where the
relevant law may have changed.




Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                       Page 19 of 20
While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his
understanding of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this
matter. Anyone with an interest in these issues who must protect that interest
should seek the advice of his or her own legal counsel and not rely on this document
as a definitive statement of how to protect or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not
binding on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is
the subject of an advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that
cause of action is litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved
consistent with the advisory opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause
of action may collect reasonable attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the
development of that cause of action from the date of the delivery of the advisory
opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the
opinions, writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights
Ombudsman are not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small
claims court, a judicial review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees
as explained above.




Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Advisory Opinion – Sandy/Christensen (The Village at Park Avenue), August 8, 2006

                                       Page 20 of 20
