                     Advisory Opinion #39
                             Parties: Shane Carlson and Salt Lake City
                                          Issued: April 28, 2008

                                        TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      Q: Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures
                      R(v): Other Topics (Interpretation of Ordinances)

A proposed change in ownership from an apartment complex to condominium
ownership was not a “change in use.” The definition of “change of use” specifically
stated that a change in ownership is not a change in use. Furthermore, an
apartment complex and a condominium complex are both “multi-family uses”
allowed under the zoning code. The decision to charge impact fees on the
conversion does not mean that the use is being changed. Impact fee ordinances
are not zoning regulations.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                                 ADVISORY OPINION
             Conversion of Apartment Buildings to Condominium Ownership

Advisory Opinion Requested by:             Shane Carlson

Local Government Entity:                   Salt Lake City

Applicant for the Land Use Approval:       ABC Avenues Development, LLC

Project:                                   Conversion of Apartment Building to Condominium
                                           Ownership

Date of this Advisory Opinion:             April 28, 2008

Opinion Authored By:                       Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney, Office of the Property
                                           Rights Ombudsman


                                           Issues
Was the City correct when it determined that an application to convert an apartment complex to
condominium-style ownership did not constitute a change of use?

                            Summary of Advisory Opinion
The City correctly interpreted and applied the “change of use” language in § 21A.62.020 of the
City Code. That interpretation is supported by the plain language of the ordinance. A change in
ownership does not constitute a change in use. If the nature of the use is unchanged, and the
proposed change does not increase the intensity, size, or occupancy of the use, the ordinance
cannot be interpreted as meaning that there has been a “change” in the use. The application
proposes to convert one type of multi-family dwelling to another type of multi-family dwelling.
The complex is a non-conforming use, and the change in ownership status should not affect
whether or not the use may continue. Finally, the language from the City’s impact fee ordinance
does not overrule or impact the language of the City’s zoning ordinance.
                                                   Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of §13-43-205 of the Utah
Code. The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

The request for this Advisory Opinion was first received from Shane Carlson on January 11,
2008. A letter with the request attached was sent via certified mail, return receipt requested, to
Christine Meeker, City Recorder, Salt Lake City, at 451 S. State, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111.
The return receipt was signed and was received on January 16, 2008, indicating that the City had
received it. A response was received from the City on March 20, 2008. Shane Carlson submitted
additional information via email on April 9, 2008.


                                                  Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

      1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion received January 11, 2008 by the Office of the
                  Property Rights Ombudsman Shane Carlson, including exhibits
      2.          Response letter from Lynn H. Pace, Deputy City Attorney, received March 20, 2008,
                  including exhibits.
      3.          Reply letter submitted by Shane Carlson, received via email on April 9, 2008.

                                            Statutes and Ordinances

      1.           Sections 18.98.020 and 21A.62.040 of the Salt Lake City Code.


                                                Background
In the Fall of 2007, the owner of the DeVille Cliff Apartments, located at 633 East Fourth
Avenue in Salt Lake City, applied for preliminary approval to convert the complex to
condominium-style ownership. The structure consists of 14 units in two main multi-story
buildings. According to the owner, the structure was originally constructed in 1942, and has
been operated as an apartment complex since that time. The west building contains six units,
with eight in the east building. According to the plat drawing submitted to the City, there are 14


Advisory Opinion − Carlson/Salt Lake City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 28, 2008 − Page 2 of 6
parking stalls to the north of the buildings, or the rear portion of the parcel. The property is
zoned “Special Development Pattern Residential District” (SR-1A), and the apartment complex
is actually a legal, non-conforming use. 1 The City noted that the building does not meet current
parking standards, but, as a non-conforming use, would not be required to increase parking. 2

City staff reviewed the application, and recommended approval. The City’s planning department
felt that the conversion was “in the best interest of the City,” and was not an intensification or
change of the existing use. The City reasoned that since the number of units was not changing,
and since there was no structural change to the buildings, converting rental units to privately-
owned condos was merely a change in ownership, not in use. As required by the City Code, the
application was reviewed by the planning division, as well as the following City Departments:
Building Services, Engineering, Fire, Public Utilities, and Transportation. 3 The departments
submitted various minor requirements to be met for the conversion, such as installation of smoke
detectors, and replacing the rear driveway. The Public Utilities Department stated that the
building owner would need to pay $7,630.00 for sewer impact fees, because the conversion
constituted a “change in use,” under the City’s impact fee ordinance.

The Planning Commission approved the application on November 28, 2007. The Greater
Avenues Community Council (GACC) appealed that decision to the City’s Land Use Appeals
Board. The GACC objects to the conversion, because they feel that converting the building from
apartments to condos constitutes a change of use for the property, which would terminate the
non-conforming use, and force the property owner to comply with current zoning regulations.
The GACC also expressed concerns about health and safety problems they claim exist on the
property, including rodents, disrepair of buildings, and inadequate garbage control.

                                                  Analysis

I.          The City’s Planning Department Correctly Determined that the Condominium
            Conversion was not a “Change of Use.”

The determination that converting apartments to condominiums was not a “change of use” was a
correct interpretation of the City’s zoning ordinance. The plain language of § 21A.62.040 of the
Salt Lake City Code supports that conclusion. There is no reason to question the City’s
interpretation and application of its ordinance.

            A. Standards of Statutory Interpretation

Statutory interpretation begins with the language of the ordinance. See Biddle v. Washington
Terrace City, 1999 UT 110, ¶ 14, 993 P.2d 875, 879. The “primary goal . . . is to give effect to

1
  The complex is non-conforming, because multi-family dwellings are not allowed in that zone. However, the use
evidently predates that zoning ordinance, and thus has been allowed to continue.
2
  Under current City standards, a multi-family residential complex would be required to provide two parking stalls
per bedroom. Since the DeVille units have two bedrooms each, a total of 28 parking stalls would be required.
3
  The Salt Lake City Police Department was also invited to review the application, but did not submit comments.

Advisory Opinion − Carlson/Salt Lake City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 28, 2008 − Page 3 of 6
the legislative intent, as evidenced by the plain language, in light of the purpose the statute was
meant to achieve.” Foutz v. City of South Jordan, 2004 UT 75 ¶ 11, 100 P.3d 1171, 1174.
Statutes should be construed so that "all parts thereof [are] relevant and meaningful." Perrine v.
Kennecott Mining Corp., 911 P.2d 1290, 1292 (Utah 1996). Furthermore, it must be presumed
“that each term included in the ordinance was used advisedly.” Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004
UT 98, ¶30, 104 P.3d 1208, 1216. “[I]nterpretations are to be avoided that render some part of a
provision nonsensical or absurd.” Millet v. Clark Clinic Corp., 609 P.2d 934, 936 (Utah 1980).

            B. Interpreting and Applying § 21A.62.040 of the Salt Lake City Code.

The plain language of § 21A.62.040 supports the City’s interpretation that conversion from
apartment to condominium is not a “change in use.” The language of that section reads as
follows:

            “Change of use” means the replacement of an existing use by a new use, or a
            change in the nature of an existing use which does not increase the size,
            occupancy, or site requirements. A change of ownership, tenancy, name or
            management, or a change in product or service within the same use classification
            where the previous nature of the use, line of business, or other function is
            substantially unchanged is not a change of use. (See also definition of Land Use
            Type (Similar Land Use Type).)

Salt Lake City Code, § 21A.62.040 (“Change of Use”). As applied to the DeVille Cliff
Apartments, the only aspect of the property that is being changed is the type of ownership, from
rented apartments owned by a single entity, to separate ownership of each unit. The language of
the ordinance states that changing the ownership, or the type of ownership, does not constitute a
“change of use” insofar as the City’s zoning ordinance is concerned.

Furthermore, no other material change in the property has been proposed. Other than some
repairs and renovations, no new construction will be undertaken. The number of units remains
the same, and the buildings will not be altered. The absence of any substantial alteration to the
physical nature of the property further supports the interpretation that there has been no
change in the use. The ordinance implies that a “change” occurs when there is an increase in the
size, occupancy, or site requirements. Because there is no such increase, there has been no
“change in use.”

The definition of “multi-family dwelling” further confirms the validity of the City’s approach.
According to that definition, “apartments” and “condominiums” are both types of multi-family
dwellings. In other words, the uses are equivalent under the City’s zoning ordinance:

      Dwelling, Multi-Family: "Multi-family dwelling" means a building containing three
      (3) or more dwellings on a single lot. For purposes of determining whether a lot is in
      multiple-family dwelling use, the following considerations shall apply:




Advisory Opinion − Carlson/Salt Lake City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 28, 2008 − Page 4 of 6
          A. Multiple-family dwelling uses may involve dwelling units intended to be rented
          and maintained under central ownership or management, or cooperative
          apartments, condominiums and the like.
          B. Any multiple-family dwelling in which dwelling units are available for rental or
          lease for periods of less than one month shall be considered a hotel/ motel.
Id. § 21A.62.040 (“Dwelling, Multi-Family”). Converting a 14-unit apartment complex to a 14-
unit condominium complex is merely changing the ownership status of the same multi-family
dwelling. Since the nature of the existing use is unchanged, there has been no change in the land
use, and the City correctly interpreted and applied its zoning ordinance. It should also be noted
that even if the application had been denied, the DeVille Cliff Apartments would more than
likely continue renting apartments, which would be allowed under its non-conforming use
status. 4
            C. The Application of § 18.98.020 does not Affect the Interpretation of § 21A.62.040.
The GACC cites to the definition found in Title 18 of the City Code, and the use of that
definition to justify charging sewer impact fees on the conversion. At first glance, it does appear
incongruous for the City to state that the conversion is not a “change of use” under its zoning
ordinance, but that it is a “change in use” under its impact fee ordinance. However, the
definitions found in § 18.98.020 only applies to the chapter governing impact fees, and is not a
definition governing land use.

The GACC’s position seems to be that an apartment complex is operated for profit (or for the
intent of gaining a profit), while a condominium complex is a form of private home ownership.
Since the conversion means a change from a commercial enterprise to private ownership, it
constitutes a “change of use.” However, the City’s zoning code makes no distinction between
multi-family dwellings operated with the intent of making a profit with multi-family dwellings
under condominium- or cooperative-style ownership. Since there is no distinction made between
multi-family dwellings rented for profit versus those with individually-owned units, there is no
real difference between an apartment complex and a condominium complex in the City’s zoning
ordinance.

Moreover, the language of the “change in use” definition from § 18.92.020 does not necessarily
support the GACC’s argument. That section defines “change in use” as “a change from
commercial use to residential use . . ..” The DeVille Cliff Apartment Complex is a residential
use, and the proposed condominium complex is also a residential use. The section would not
even apply, because the conversion application proposes a change from one residential use
(apartments) to another residential use (condominiums). Thus, § 18.98.020 does not override or
modify the zoning ordinance, and does not support the conclusion that the condominium
conversion is a “change of use.”


4
 The GACC expressed concerns over health and safety issues, such as waste management, maintenance of parking
canopies, and rodent control. These are valid complaints, but they would apply whether or not the complex was
converted to condominiums, and do not impact whether or not the use has been “changed.”

Advisory Opinion − Carlson/Salt Lake City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 28, 2008 − Page 5 of 6
                                            Conclusion
The City correctly interpreted and applied the “change of use” language in § 21A.62.020 of the
City Code. That interpretation is supported by the plain language of the ordinance. A change in
ownership does not constitute a change in use, nor does an application for any proposed change
that does not alter the nature of the use, or increase the intensity, size, or occupancy of the use.
The application proposes to convert one type of multi-family dwelling to another type of multi-
family dwelling. The complex is a non-conforming use, and the change in ownership status
should not affect whether or not the use may continue. Finally, the language from the City’s
impact fee ordinance does not overrule or impact the language of the City’s zoning ordinance




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion − Carlson/Salt Lake City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 28, 2008 − Page 6 of 6
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, §13-43-205. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

U.C.A. §13-43-206(10)(b) requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to the government
entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with U.C.A. §63-30d-401 (Notices Filed
Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Christine Meeker, City Recorder
              Salt Lake City
              451 S. State Street
              Salt Lake City, UT 84114

On this ___________ Day of April, 2008, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
