                     Advisory Opinion #83
                             Parties: Kristen Nilssen and City of Draper
                                        Issued: February 1, 2010

                                        TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      J: Requirements Imposed upon Development
                      R(v): Other Topics (Interpretation of Ordinances)

The City has a legitimate public interest in preventing harm due to geologic
hazards such as subsidence or landslide. The benefits of a geologic review
ordinance outweigh the burdens imposed upon property owners. An expert report
should be accepted if it is complete, uses reliable data, and follows accepted
methodology. Rejection is justified if there is a factual basis disputing the report’s
conclusions to the point that the report should not be approved.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                        State of Utah
                        Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                        OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   GREG BELL
Lieutenant Governor




                                         ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:               Kristen Nilssen

      Local Government Entity:                     Draper City

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:         Kristen Nilssen

      Project:                                     Single Family Home

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:               February 1, 2010

      Opinion Authored By:                         Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney, Office of the Property
                                                   Rights Ombudsman



                                                   Issues
      Did the City follow its Geologic Hazards Ordinance when reviewing a geotechnical report
      submitted by an applicant for development approval?



                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
      The City has a legitimate public interest in preventing harm due to geologic hazards such as
      subsidence or landslide. The benefits of a geologic review ordinance outweigh the burdens
      imposed upon property owners. The City’s ordinance requires that an applicant submit a
      geotechnical report, which is then reviewed for completeness, and whether the proposed use may
      be conducted without unreasonable risk. The report should be accepted if it is complete, uses
      reliable data, and follows accepted methodology. Rejection is justified if there is a factual basis
      disputing the report’s conclusions to the point that the report should not be approved.
                                                 Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-
205. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Kristen Nilssen on August 4, 2009. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Tracy B. Norr, Draper City Recorder. The
return certificate, indicating that the City received the copy of the Request, was received by the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman on August 10, 2009. The City submitted a response
via e-mail on August 20, 2009. However, the OPRO has no record of receiving that email. The
City resubmitted its response on October 26, 2009. It was received by the OPRO on November
2, 2009.



                                                Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

           1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, filed August 4, 2009 with the Office of the Property
              Rights Ombudsman by Kristen Nilssen.
           2. Response from Draper City, originally submitted via email on August 20, 2009,
              resubmitted on October 26, 2009, by Douglas Ahlstrom, Attorney for Draper City.
           3. Email reply from Kristen Nilssen, dated September 9, 2009.


                                             Background
Kristen Nilssen owns a lot in the SunCrest development in Draper City. The development is
located on the Traverse Mountain Ridge, which separates the Salt Lake and Utah Valleys. The
City contends that Traverse Mountain has potentially dangerous geologic hazards, including
faults, landslides, and other instability. Because of these conditions, the City enacted a geologic
hazards ordinance. The ordinance identifies areas with potential geologic hazards, and requires
expert analysis of any application for development within those areas. 1


1
  DRAPER CITY CODE, §§ 9-19-010 to -150. The Traverse Mountain area has been subject to land slides and other
instability, which prompted the ordinance.

Advisory Opinion – Nilssen/Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 1, 2010 – page 2 of 7 pages
Ms. Nilssen’s lot is situated on a relatively flat area, and is at the end of a cul-de-sac. The Lot
slopes downward slightly towards the rear. There are two homes located on either side of the
Lot, but the Lot has not been developed or disturbed, other than installation of the cul-de-sac. A
few hundred feet behind the Lot is a road with more proposed building lots, which have not yet
been developed. That road is at a slightly lower elevation than the Lot.2 It is not clear how far
the boundaries of the Lot extend towards the rear.

In 2006, a geotechnical report was prepared for the Lot by Professional Service Industries, Inc.
(PSI). That report explains the analysis performed on the Lot, including two test pits dug in the
center. The PSI report concluded that a home could be safely built, and suggested designs for the
foundations and drainage.

In March of 2008, Taylor Geo-Engineering (TGE) reviewed the PSI report, and disputed the
earlier report’s claim that there was no evidence of landslides near the Lot. The TGE report
stated that the “head scarp” of the Little Valley Landslide was located to the rear of the Lot.
Because of that head scarp, the TGE report recommended that any building be set back (from the
rear of the Lot), although the TGE report did not recommend a set back distance.3

In April and May of 2008, the two reports were studied by Simon Bymaster, Inc (SBI). Experts
from SBI also visited the Lot, and dug a trench on the Lot, in the same area as the test pits from
the earlier report. 4 The trench was 10 feet deep, and about 70 feet long. The purpose of the
trench was to determine whether or not the head scarp identified in the TGE report required any
special modifications to the planned residence on the Lot. In a series of three reports, SBI agreed
with the TGE report that the Lot was subject to the Little Valley Landslide head scarp, and that a
set back was recommended. 5

In June of 2008, Ms. Nilssen obtained a new report from Geo-Strata Engineering (Geo-Strata).
That report reviewed the earlier information, and also observed the trench. The Geo-Strata
report concluded that a home could be safely built, if it were located about 40 feet from the
trench, or if the home were designed to accommodate 6 inches of settlement. In August, TGE
reviewed the Geo-Strata report, and noted that some information was missing, including the
basis for the two recommended alternatives.

In response to the TGE review, Geo-Strata, along with another company which had provided
some of the analysis, submitted the information requested by TGE. 6 Geo-Strata also revised its
recommendations, based upon further analysis. In its report of April 22, 2009, Geo-Strata
recommended a 20 foot setback. In the alternative, it felt that a special design to accommodate
settling was no longer necessary. 7

2
  Topographic maps indicate that the difference in elevation is about 200 feet.
3
  The TGE report left that determination to PSI.
4
  The trench and test pits were located near the center of the Lot, where a home would most likely be built.
5
  There were a few other concerns related to definition of terms and whether the PSI report was properly signed.
6
  Geo-Strata contracted with Intermountain GeoEnvironmental Services, Inc. (IGES), which provided some of the
analysis for the reports. IGES submitted a supplementary report in October of 2008.
7
  Geo-Strata and IGES relied upon soil strength tests conducted on nearby lots. According to their reports, the soil
conditions on those lots is similar, and so the analysis should be valid for the conditions on Nilssen Lot.

Advisory Opinion – Nilssen/Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 1, 2010 – page 3 of 7 pages
In May of 2009, SBI submitted a review of Geo-Strata’s April report. In that letter, SBI disputed
Geo-Strata’s conclusion that “no landslide features were observed in the trench.” SBI pointed to
three specific features which it felt demonstrated the existence of a potentially unstable
landslide. 8

In reports dated May 29 and June 3 of 2009, TGE disputed the conclusions reached by Geo-
Strata, including the applicability of soil tests from nearby lots, and the necessity of either
setbacks or special building design. Representatives from the companies met during the summer
of 2009, in an effort to resolve the differences. As of the date this Advisory Opinion, there has
been no resolution.

It appears that the major point of the dispute centers on whether the trench reveals evidence of a
potentially unstable landslide, or if the soil is sufficiently stable to construct a home on the Lot.
There are some other disagreements between TGE and Geo-Strata, based on the reports
submitted in the Summer of 2009, but even those disagreements appear to relate to the analysis
of the evidence found in the trench.



                                                   Analysis
I.      An Applicant is Entitled to Approval if the Land Use Application Complies with
        Applicable Ordinances.

Utah Law provides that an applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application that
complies with a local government’s land use maps, zoning map, and applicable land use
ordinances. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(1)(a). 9 If a proposed use is allowed, and the
application meets the requirements of applicable ordinances, then the application must be
approved. In this case, Ms. Nilssen’s application must satisfy the City’s Geologic Hazards
Ordinance, because it was in force when the development application was submitted.

Protecting against landslides and other geologic instability is a highly important public interest.
Homeowners in Draper, along with other cities throughout the state, have suffered great losses
due to soil instability. The City adopted its geologic hazards ordinance, in an effort to address
the very real threat of injury and property damage, particularly on hillsides. Regulating the
design and use of buildings, through building and fire codes and other safety statutes, serves the
overall public interest, even though such regulation often imposes additional costs and burdens




8
  The SBI report states that its experts visited the trench and enlarged the digging at one end. The new excavation
revealed additional features which, to SBI, further strengthen the conclusion that the soil on the Lot is unstable.
9
  See also UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-508(1) (applicable to counties). An otherwise compliant application may be
denied if there is a compelling, countervailing public interest that would be jeopardized if the application were
approved, or if the local government has initiated proceedings to change its ordinances in a way that prohibits or
affects the application. See id. § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(i)-(ii).

Advisory Opinion – Nilssen/Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 1, 2010 – page 4 of 7 pages
upon individual property owners. The public benefit of compliance with a geologic hazard
ordinance outweighs the additional burden imposed on property owners. 10

II.     The City’s Geologic Hazards Ordinance Requires Evaluation to Determine if a
        Proposed Land Use Presents an Unreasonable Risk due to Geologic Hazards.

The City’s Geologic Hazards Ordinance requires evaluation of an application, to determine if
there is a geologic hazard, and if the proposed use poses an unreasonable risk due to the hazard.
This determination is to be made by the City, not by an outside party. “The City shall review any
proposed land use which requires preparation of a geologic hazards report under this chapter
[i.e., Chapter 9-19] to determine the possible risks to the safety of persons, property, and City
infrastructure from geologic hazards.” DRAPER CITY CODE, § 9-19-110(a). To carry out that
evaluation,

        The City shall determine whether the report complies will all of the following
        standards:

        (1) a suitable geologic hazard report has been prepared . . ..

        (2) the proposed land use does not present an unreasonable risk to the health, safety,
            and welfare of persons or property . . . because of the presence of geologic
            hazards or because of modifications to the site due to the proposed land use.

        (3) the proposed land use demonstrates that, consistent with the state of the
            practice, the identified geologic hazards can be mitigated to a level where the
            risk to human life and damage to property are reduced to an acceptable and
            reasonable level . . ..

Id., § 9-19-110(f). 11

The City’s ordinance anticipates that the applicant will submit a geotechnical report that includes
required information, such as logs of observations and data used as the basis for conclusions and
recommendations. Id., § 9-19-100. 12 If a report prepared by an applicant’s geotechnical expert
complies with the City’s requirements, has all required information, and follows accepted
methods of data collection and analysis, the City should accept it and its recommendations. If it


10
   Ms. Nilssen raises the question that the delay associated with obtaining geotechnical reports, and their associated
costs, could constitute an impermissible taking of her property rights. It is true that a regulation “that goes too far”
may constitute a taking (See Palazzolo v. Rhode Island, 533 U.S. 606, 617 (2001)), but on its face, the City’s
geologic hazard ordinance does not appear to “go too far,” because of the important public benefit of preventing
harm due to geologic failure. However, an unjustified delay, even in pursuit of a legitimate public objective, may
give rise to a possible takings claim. See Del Monte Dunes at Monterrey v. City of Monterrey, 526 U.S. 687 (1999).
11
   The phrase “acceptable and reasonable risk” is defined as meaning “no loss or significant injury to occupants, no
release of hazardous or toxic substances, and minimal structural damage.” DRAPER CITY CODE, § 9-19-020.
12
   See also id., § 9-19-090: “Any applicant requesting development approval . . . within a Geologic Hazard Study
Area . . . shall submit to the City five paper copies and one electronic copy of a site-specific geologic hazard study
report.”

Advisory Opinion – Nilssen/Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 1, 2010 – page 5 of 7 pages
does not, the City may reject it. The City’s review should be completed in a reasonable time. 13
If the report does not include required information, the City may withhold a decision until the
information is submitted. If a report does not follow accepted methodology or uses unreliable
data, the City may reject the conclusions, or it may request that the report be supplemented with
correct data or with a justification for using an “unorthodox” analysis. 14 The City’s Geologic
Hazards Ordinance, however, does not call for the City to commission its own competing report,
and subject an applicant to a never-ending loop of comment and response between two sets of
experts. 15

To assist in carrying out its responsibility, the City contracted with its own experts to review the
reports prepared by Ms. Nilssen’s experts. 16 The City may, of course, seek expert advice to
review these reports, which deal with highly technical and specialized knowledge. The
ordinance, however, requires a decision by the City on a complete report submitted by an
applicant.

Ultimately, the focus of the analysis is whether carrying out the proposed use will pose an
unreasonable risk because of documented geologic hazards. The use may be approved if the risk
can be reduced to an acceptable and reasonable level by mitigating the hazards associated with
the use. The analysis should therefore not be blind to the conditions associated with the site, and
should include study of the actual geologic features as well as consideration of well-reasoned
scientific studies. The City should make its final decision on a complete report within 45 days. 17
If there is still a dispute concerning the City’s decision, it may be necessary to file an appeal, as
provided in § 10-9a-703(2) of the Utah Code. 18

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not equipped or qualified to determine which
of the competing experts is the most correct. That is the role of the geotechnical experts, who
should follow the procedure envisioned by the City’s ordinance. The property owner’s experts
should prepare a report containing all required information, and any additional data to support
their conclusions. The City’s experts should review that report, and should recommend approval
if the property owner’s report uses reliable data and follows accepted methodology. As long as
the applicant’s report sufficiently identifies the raw data upon which the expert’s conclusions are
based, the City’s experts should not need to collect their own data, nor should they conduct their


13
   The City’s ordinance provides that the City will issue a final decision within 45 days. DRAPER CITY CODE, § 9-
19-110(c); see also UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509.5(2) (requiring a final decision on a land use application within a
reasonable time, or within 45 days if requested by an applicant).
14
   Simply reaching a different conclusion by adopting a different type of analysis should not be a legitimate reason to
reject a report. If a geotechnical report is complete and follows accepted methodology, it should not be rejected.
15
   In addition, an applicant is responsible for “[a]ll direct costs associated with the review of geologic hazard
studies,” along with the costs of preparing the initial report.
16
   The City’s geotechnical experts are TGE and (possibly) SBI. Taylor Geo-Engineering seems to have taken the
lead in the City’s review.
17
   One issue in this ongoing dispute is whether Ms. Nilssen’s experts have submitted complete report. The TGE
reviews identified specific information that was absent. The City’s experts may require inclusion of required
information or other supporting information in order to conduct an informed review of the report.
18
   That section provides for an appeal of a decision applying or interpreting a geologic hazard ordinance. The statute
requires review by a three-member panel of experts.

Advisory Opinion – Nilssen/Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 1, 2010 – page 6 of 7 pages
own analysis. 19 The role of the City’s experts is to evaluate the report that is submitted, and
recommend approval or denial to the City. That recommendation must be based upon the
information found in the report, and must be a reasoned analysis of the report’s data and
conclusions. 20 The ultimate decision on the report must be made within a reasonable time by the
City.

                                                   Conclusion
The City’s Geologic Hazards Ordinance serves a legitimate public objective, and land use
applicants must comply with the ordinance. Even though there are additional burdens imposed
on property owners and developers, the public benefits of the ordinance justify the obligation.

The ordinance requires that an applicant for development approval submit a geologic hazard
study report. That report is then reviewed for completeness, and whether the proposed use may
be conducted without unreasonable risk. The City should issue a final decision on approval or
rejection within a reasonable time. As long as a report complies with City requirements, uses
reliable data, and follows accepted methodology, it should be approved. Rejection is justified
when there is a factual basis that outweighs the evidence presented in the report. Simply
disagreeing with a complete and properly-reasoned report is not sufficiently fact-based to
warrant rejection.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




19
   Unfortunately, that has already happened. Perhaps Ms. Nilssen’s experts could prepare a final report, using the
data uncovered by the City’s experts. That report could then be reviewed and submitted to the City for a decision.
20
   As was stated earlier, the property owner’s report may be rejected if the data is unreliable, or if the methodology is
not acceptable. The City may not reject a report unless there is a factual basis justifying the rejection. “[D]enial of a
[land use application] is arbitrary when the reasons are without sufficient factual basis.” Davis County v. Clearfield
City, 756 P.2d 704, 711 (Utah Ct. App. 1988).
Advisory Opinion – Nilssen/Draper City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 1, 2010 – page 7 of 7 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

           Tracy B. Norr, City Recorder
           Draper City
           1020 Pioneer Road
           Draper, Utah 84020

On this ___________ Day of February, 2010, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
