                     Advisory Opinion #10
            Parties: Shawn Warnke, Grand County Administrator and Grand County
                                        Issued: February 7, 2007

                                        TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      D: Exactions on Development
                      J: Requirements Imposed Upon Development

It is reasonable to interpret the County’s Ordinance as requiring improvement to
existing roads, if they related to a new development. Since the improvements are
to an existing road that directly serves the new lots in the subdivisions, it does not
appear that the requirement is an improper exaction.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                                      State of Utah
                                      Department of Commerce
  JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.
         Governor
                                      OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
     GARY R. HERBERT
     Lieutenant Governor



                                                                  Advisory Opinion


            Advisory Opinion Requested by:                                 Shawn Warnke
                                                                           Grand County Administrator

            Local Government Entity:                                       Grand County

            Applicant for the Land Use Approval:                           Kyle Kimmerle
                                                                           Brad Mimlilz

            Project:                                                       Desert Mesa Subdivision (Mimlilz)
                                                                           Kimmerle Subdivision

            Date of this Advisory Opinion:                                 February 7, 2007

            Issue: Are the street dedications and improvements proposed by Grand County for
            the Desert Mesa and Kimmerle Subdivisions legal?

                                                                          Review

            The request for an advisory opinion in this matter was received by the Office of the
            Property Rights Ombudsman on December 11, 2006. A letter with the request attached
            was sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to Kyle Kimmerle on December 18,
            2006. A receipt for delivery of the certified letter was dated December 23, 2006.

            In telephone conversations the parties requested that the Office of the Property Rights
            Ombudsman proceed to prepare the opinion. I visited with Kyle Kimmerle on
            December 27, 2006, and was told to proceed. I have also visited about the matter with
            Brad Mimlitz, Shawn Warnke, and Mary Hofhine, Grand County Zoning Administrator.




160 East 300 South, Box 146702, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6701• telephone (801) 530-6391 • facsimile (801) 530-6338 • www.commerce.utah.gov
                                                                                     -2-

                            Summary of Advisory Opinion

The road requirements imposed by Grand County on the Desert Mesa Subdivision and
the Kimmerle Subdivisions are legal. While the applicable ordinances and standards
could be more clearly written, the interpretation the County has made would most
likely be deemed by a court to constitute a correct reading of the applicable ordinances
and standards. Any past interpretation or application of these ordinances and
standards which varies from the current interpretation and application does not control
the current situation. Under the facts of this case, the applicants for subdivision
approval have not relied on past interpretations in the manner required by the courts to
trigger the application by a court of the common law equitable doctrines of waiver and
estoppel. Absent those remedies, the ordinances and standards can be enforced as
written in the future, even if the County has not done so in the past.

                                       Evidence

The following documents were reviewed prior to completing this advisory opinion:

   1.     Request for an Advisory Opinion, filed with the Office of the Property Rights
          Ombudsman by Shawn Warnke on December 11, 2006, which included as
          attachments:
          a. Memo from Shawn Warnke to Craig Call dated December 1, 2006
          b. Copy of email from Tim Keogh, engineer, dated December 5, 2006.
          c. Memorandum to the planning commission dated October 27, 2006 re
              Desert Mesa Subdivision Preliminary Plat – Bradley Mimlitz, applicant
          d. Memorandum to the Grand County planning commission dated October
              3, 2006 re Kimmerle Sketch Plan.
          e. Memorandum to Kyle Kimmerle dated October 12, 2006 re: Kimmerle
              Sketch Plan Follow‐up.
          f. Five pages of email messages between Richard Grice and Tim Keogh and
              others, the most recent dated Friday, December 1, 2006 at 3:38 p.m.
          g. Memorandum dated December 1, 2006 to Shawn Warnke from Richard
              Grice re: road improvement standards and history.
          h. Copy of Grand Construction Standards, dated May 25, 1999.
          i. Preliminary Plat for Desert Mesa Subdivision, dated 5‐19‐2006 by Keogh
              Land Surveying.
          j. Sketch Plan for Kimmerle Subdivision, undated, prepared by Keogh Land
              Surveying.
   2.     Email dated December 3, 2006 from Tim Keogh to Craig Call.
                                                                                 -3-

3.   Email dated December 18, 2006 from Kyle Kimmerle to Craig Call, with
     attachments:
     a. “To all Grand County Council Members” undated statement of Kyle
         Kimmerle.
     b. “Mary” undated statement of Kyle Kimmerle.
     c. “Quoting Richard Grice” undated list of 24 subdivisions with added
         comments from Kyle Kimmerle.
4.   Email dated December 26, 2006 from Tim Keogh to Craig Call.
5.   The Grand County land use ordinance found at www.grandcountyutah.net.
6.   The Grand County Subdivision Standards (Undated – provided by Mary
     Hofhine).
7.   The Grand County Construction Standards (September 3, 2003). (Undated –
     provided by Mary Hofhine).
8.   Minutes of the Planning Commission meeting held October 11, 2006.
9.   Emails received February 7, 2007 from Richard Grice, Kyle Kimmerle, and
     Timothy M. Keogh.

                               Assumed Facts

1.   Kimmerle Subdivision is a six‐lot subdivision proposed for Grand County.

2.   Desert Mesa subdivision is a four‐lot subdivision proposed for Grand County.

3.   In the process of approval for these two subdivisions, the County has
     required or intends to require that, where any part of any lot abuts a county
     road, the existing pavement of the road be extended toward the land to be
     subdivided to a point where curb and gutter will be required along the edge
     of the county road, thus requiring that half of the county road right of way be
     reconstructed and improved to new condition.

4.   Section 6.7.2 of the Land Use Code requires that “all improvements shall be
     constructed in accordance” with the Grand Construction Standards.

5.   Section I Roads and Streets in the Grand Construction Standards states “All
     roads and streets including access roads within and/or pertaining to the
     subdivision shall be paved with asphaltic concrete or equivalent and chip
     sealed according to the standards and specifications of the County Engineer,
     except as specifically allowed in these Standards.”
                                                                                      -4-

   6.     Section 5.1.1. of the Grand Construction Standards provides that “All plats
          and subdivision of land within the unincorporated portion of Grand County
          shall conform to the following rules and regulations.”

   7.     According to the Grand Construction Standards attached to the land use
          ordinance as Exhibit “A”, “All lots shall have frontage on a street that
          conforms to the standards of this section.”

   8.     The minimum width of a “local” street shown on Table 1, “Minimum Street
          Construction Standards” in the Grand Construction Standards at Section I
          (A)(1) is 56 feet, with a 38 foot surface width.

   9.     The Grand Construction Standards at Table 1 also provides for minimum
          compacted sub‐base, compacted road base, pavement, curb and gutter, and
          other standards and specifications for street improvements.

   10.    In the Grand County Subdivision Standards at Title 16, Article 1, Section 5.3.4
          the code provides that “Half streets shall be prohibited except where essential
          to the reasonable development of the subdivision and where the Planning
          and Zoning Commission finds it would be practicable to require the
          dedication of the other half of a street where the adjoining property is
          subdivided.”

                                         Issue

There appears to be no dispute that the County can require a subdivider to construct
newly created streets within a subdivision so that those streets comply with the Grand
Construction Standards. Can the County also legally require a subdivider to improve
preexisting county roads where new lots created by the subdivision front upon those
preexisting County roads?

                                       Analysis

Does Past Non‐Enforcement Constitute a Waiver for Future Enforcement?

Those who have participated in the exchange of information leading up to the
publication of this advisory opinion have provided an extended discussion of the
interpretation and application of the county’s land use code and the Grand Construction
Standards over the past years. While this can be very persuasive in the political arena,
and may be helpful in encouraging County officials to continue with past practices and
not make abrupt changes in interpretation, it is not determinative of how the law must
be applied in this case.
                                                                                         -5-

There are cases that support the idea that the county cannot reinterpret its ordinances to
the disadvantage of the applicant for a land use permit after it has already approved a
project, issued the permits, and construction has begun, but they would not apply
where there has been no work commenced. For example:

       An additional requirement generally considered in zoning estoppel cases is that
       of the existence of some physical construction as an element of substantial
       reliance. Preconstruction activities such as the execution of architectural
       drawings or the clearing of land and widening of roads are not sufficient to
       create a vested right, nor generally are activities that are not exclusively related
       to the proposed project.

Western Land Equities v. Logan City, 617 P.2d 388 (Utah 1980). Indeed, there are several
Utah Supreme Court decisions that specifically state that past lack of enforcement does
not prohibit a government entity from applying an ordinance as written at the present
or in the future:

       Estoppel, waiver or laches ordinarily do not constitute a defense to a suit for
       injunctive relief against alleged violations of the zoning laws, unless the
       circumstances are exceptional. Zoning ordinances are governmental acts which
       rest upon the police power, and as to violations thereof any inducements,
       reliances, negligence of enforcement, or like factors are merely aggravations of
       the violation rather than excuses or justifications therefor.

Utah County v. Baxter, 635 P.2d 61 (Utah 1981).

       Ordinarily a municipality is not precluded from enforcing its zoning regulations,
       when its officers have remained inactive in the face of such violations. The
       promulgation of zoning ordinances constitutes a governmental function. This
       governmental power usually may not be forfeited by the action of local officers in
       disregard of the ordinance.

Salt Lake County v. Kartchner, 552 P.2d 136, 138 (Utah 1976).

       Similarly, the Alta town clerkʹs issuance in this case of three lodging facility
       licenses does not estop Alta from denying use of BHCʹs (Ben Hame
       Corporation’s) residence as a lodging facility contrary to the Alta zoning
       ordinance. Additionally, failure to enforce zoning for a time does not forfeit the
       power to enforce. (Citation omitted). BHC has shown neither an act or omission
       by Alta justifying good faith reliance nor a substantial detrimental change in
                                                                                        -6-

       BHCʹs position in reliance on Altaʹs acts. Hence, BHC has not shown any
       exceptional circumstances constituting an estoppel defense to the injunction
       action.

Town of Alta v. Ben Hame Corp., 836 P.2d 797, 800 (Utah Ct. App. 1992). I do not need to
come to any conclusion based upon the contradictory information provided by those
who have commented to me about whether the County’s past interpretation of the
ordinances and standards was correct. It appears under the Utah legal precedents that
even if the County had not been consistent in the interpretation or application of the
standards in the past, it can apply a correct reading of the standards in the future. This
is not to say that the County can misread the ordinance as written – indeed it may only
enforce what the law provides, and if a challenge had been brought in the past to an
incorrect interpretation made then, that challenge could easily have prevailed. Those
past errors (assuming there may have been some) according to the relevant case law, do
not control what a court would do today, however.

Interpretation of the Standards and Ordinances ‐ Existing Streets Must Be Improved:

The Grand Construction Standards apply to “all roads and streets including access
roads within and/or pertinent to the subdivision.” With regard to the Desert Mesa
Subdivision, Mesa Road and Desert Road, which are existing public streets are, without
a doubt, “pertinent” to the subdivision because each of the lots depend on those streets
for direct access. With regard to the Kimmerle Subdivision, Plateau Drive and Starbuck
Lane, which are existing public streets, are also, without a doubt, “pertinent” to the
subdivision. As with the Desert Mesa Subdivision, the Kimmerle Subdivision will
create lots which use these existing public streets for access.

The standards were apparently drawn up with the principle goal of defining
construction standards for new streets that occur within new subdivisions, and do
contain some ambiguities when read to determine how they apply to existing public
streets that are not being created by the subdivider. I believe, however, that the
language cited above would lead a court to conclude that the standards do indeed
apply to existing County streets. This is not to say that the wording of the standards
and the ordinance are perfectly crafted; only that if the court were looking as I have at
the language in an attempt to determine whether the language could be reasonably
interpreted to require the same improvements to existing public streets as would be
required of new public streets or lanes, the result would cut in favor of the County in
this specific situation.
                                                                                        -7-

This is also consistent with the general practice of other communities throughout the
state. It is common to impose a requirement to improve existing roads that abut new
subdivisions.

I believe that the imposition of requirements for road improvements on the Kimmerle
and Desert Mesa Subdivisions as outlined in the request for an advisory opinion would
be upheld by a court as being legal.

Width of Road Improvements

The Grand Construction Standards are somewhat unclear as to the pavement standards
because it uses the word “may” instead of “shall” to describe whether streets in areas
where the lots are one half acre or more can be improved to public lane standards.
Where there is such ambiguity, the wording would likely be interpreted to provide that
24 feet of pavement is all that can be required in such a subdivision. Ironically in this
case, where the County could require 24 feet in a full roadway improvement, it has
given the subdivider the benefit of allowing only a half street improvement. I do not
find in the standards that the County has the ability to do that. In Section I (A)(17) of
the Grand Construction Standards, it provides that the amount of right‐of‐way
dedicated for a street can be less than the full amount stated in the Standards, but
requires the full pavement width and curb and gutter on both sides. By waiving the
requirement of full pavement width and half the curb and gutter requirement, the
County continues to avoid the full enforcement of the Standards as written, even
though those developing these two subdivisions argue that the partial enforcement in
their cases is still too harsh.

This waiver of the harsh reading of the Grand Construction Standards is somewhat
understandable in light of the provisions in the Subdivision Standards at section 5.3.4
which allows for half streets without the full improvements mandated by the Grand
Construction Standards. Indeed, while the applicants claim that the County should
not be able to impose half‐ street width requirements on them, it appears they misread
the ordinance. The alternative to imposing the half‐street requirement is not to impose
no street requirements. The option if no half street is allowed is to require the
subdivider to improve the full street width.

The failure to enforce the standards as written may be symptomatic of a general
consensus that the standards are simply too harsh.
                                                                                           -8-

There appears to be some concern about a requirement to move power lines and utility
poles. I do not have enough information to know if that is being required in this case
or even if the relevant ordinances and standards provide for the moving of utility poles
when the road right of way is extended. Indeed there are many situations around the
state where the power lines are not located at the edge of a right of way; sometimes they
are between the sidewalk and the curb or in other locations. Absent some specific
requirement in the standards or ordinances, a requirement to widen a roadway does not
necessarily mandate the moving of utility poles and the standards may not be as harsh
as they are assumed to be.

Illegal Exactions on Development

In the comments he made to assist with the preparation of this advisory opinion Kyle
Kimmerle raised an issue that the street requirements in this case may constitute an
illegal exaction, as being disproportionate and unfairly burdensome on the applicant for
subdivision. If so, the “taking” clause of both the United States and Utah constitutions
would require just compensation to be paid for the taking of private property for a
public use. An inquiry into that issue would certainly be appropriate if the County
were imposing the requirement to build an arterial road as a condition of approval of a
four or six lot subdivision, but it is not justified where the requirement is the
improvement of half a local street width where new lots front upon that local street and
where those new lots use that local street for access. I know of no legal case which has
held that a requirement for a half street of local road width is disproportionate.

Equal Protection

The constitutional principle of equal protection has also been raised by those
challenging the County’s actions in this case, and allegations of past inconsistencies
have been used to support this argument. While such arguments are compelling, the
Utah Supreme Court has simply dismissed such claims out of hand in the planning and
zoning arena.

      Federal courts have clarified that to make out a prima facie case for violation of
      equal protection . . . ʺthe plaintiff must present evidence that the defendant
      deliberately sought to deprive him of the equal protection of the laws for reasons
      of a personal nature unrelated to the duties of the defendantʹs position.ʺ
      (citations omitted) A showing of ʺunevenʺ enforcement of the law is not
      sufficient: what is required is a showing of a ʺʹtotally illegitimate animus toward
      the plaintiff by the defendant.ʹʺ (citations omitted) The burden of proving
      discriminatory intent . . . is ʺʹan onerous one.ʹʺ (citations omitted) . . . See Bartell
      v. Aurora Pub. Schs., 263 F.3d 1143, 1149 (10th Cir. 2001) (holding that to make a
                                                                                       -9-

      claim under ʺclass of oneʺ theory plaintiff must prove ʺhe was singled out for
      persecution due to some animosityʺ on the part of defendant). Critical to
      demonstrating an intentional denial of equal protection is a specific allegation
      that the defendant had some irrational motive for treating the plaintiff differently
      from other similarly situated persons. . . (we) hold that (the) allegations of unfair
      treatment in this ʺrun of the millʺ zoning case do not amount to equal protection
      violations.

Patterson v. American Fork City, 2003 UT 7, para 33, 34. However frustrating the situation
may be for the applicants here, the facts do not support a conclusion that the County
specifically singled out either property owner in this case for special treatment based on
some personal animus against him or her.

                                       Conclusion

A requirement that those seeking subdivision approval for the Desert Mesa Subdivision
and the Kimmerle Subdivision improve the adjoining County streets can be legally
imposed because those streets “pertain” to the subdivisions. Since the lots in both
subdivisions are one half acre or more, the Standards impose a “public lane”
requirement of a minimum of 24 feet of asphalt, but the County appears willing to
allow a lesser half street improvement of 19 feet, which is half of the 38 foot “local”
street standard. Considering the ordinances and standards as written can be correctly
interpreted to allow for this requirement, these street improvement conditions are legal
and enforceable.

Any past interpretation of the ordinance that allowed for a different application of the
standards to the approval of other subdivisions in the County is not binding on the
approval of these two subdivisions. The facts of this case do not trigger the essential
requirements the courts have relied upon to use the equitable doctrines of estoppel or
waiver to set aside otherwise legal land use ordinances and standards. The
constitutional principles guaranteeing equal protection and just compensation for the
taking of private property for a public purpose do not apply in this factual situation.




Craig M. Call, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                                                                                     - 10 -

NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Utah Code Annotated, 13‐42‐205. It does
not constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or
policy of the State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed
are arrived at based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this
specific matter, and may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in
another matter where the facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant
law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his
understanding of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this
matter. Anyone with an interest in these issues who must protect that interest should
seek the advice of his or her own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a
definitive statement of how to protect or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not
binding on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the
subject of an advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that
cause of action is litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved
consistent with the advisory opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause
of action may collect reasonable attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the
development of that cause of action from the date of the delivery of the advisory
opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the
opinions, writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights
Ombudsman are not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small
claims court, a judicial review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as
explained above.
                                                                                     - 11 -

                               MAILING CERTIFICATE



Utah Code Annotated Section 13‐43‐206(10)(b) requires delivery of the attached
advisory opinion to the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that
complies with U.C.A. Section 63‐30d‐401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental
Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the
agent designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the
governmental entity in the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the
Utah State Department of Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code,
and to the address shown is as designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as
follows:

      Judy Charmichael, Commissioner
      Grand County
      125 East Center Street
      Moab, UT 84532

On this ___________ Day of February, 2007, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to
be delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States
Postal Service, postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed
to the person shown above.




                           ______________________________________________________
                           Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
