                   Advisory Opinion #115
                              Parties: Garyn Perrett and Wellsville City
                                         Issued: August 28, 2012

                                          TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                      B: Conditional Use Applications
                      Other Topics(v): Interpretation of Ordinances

An ordinance should be interpreted to give effect to its intent, as evidenced by its
plain language. Discretion allowed to a local government to interpret and apply its
own ordinances cannot extend to the point where the ordinance’s language is
completely ignored. A use that is not listed as an allowed use cannot be “implied”
because some similar uses are listed, if the proposed use is significantly different
from those listed.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   GREG BELL
Lieutenant Governor




                                         ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:               Garyn Perrett

      Local Government Entity:                     Wellsville City

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:         Greenville Corner LLC

      Type of Property:                            Commercial Development

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:               August 28, 2012

      Opinion Authored By:                         Elliot R. Lawrence
                                                   Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                   Issues
      May a City’s zoning ordinance be interpreted as allowing a truck stop se when that use is not
      allowed by the ordinance’s language?

                                   Summary of Advisory Opinion
      A statute or ordinance should be interpreted to give effect to the intent of the ordinance, as
      evidenced by its plain language. It must be presumed that the language used was chosen
      advisedly, including terms which were not included. The City’s ordinance does not include
      “truck stop” as an allowed use, and it must be presumed that the City Council could have
      included the term if it so chose.

      Statutory construction rules which favor approval of land uses, and allow discretion to local
      governments must respect the language of the ordinance, and are not excuses to ignore
      ordinances or insert terms that were not adopted through the legislative process. Because a truck
      stop is a distinct land use, with unique impacts, it cannot be implied as an allowable use because
      a truck stop is similar to allowed uses. The distinction between the allowed uses and a truck stop
      is too great to simply ignore the plain language of the ordinance.
                                                   Review
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-
205. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Garyn Perrett on April 16, 2012. A copy
of that request was sent via certified mail to Ruth P. Maughan, of Wellsville City, at 75 East Main
Street, Wellsville, Utah. 84339. The City received that copy on April 25, 2012.
.
                                                  Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

      1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Garyn Perrett,
                  receieved by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman on April 16, 2012.
      2.          Additional Materials submitted by Mr. Perrett, received May 10, 2012.
      3.          Additional Materials submitted by Mr. Parrett, received May 15, 2012.
      4.          Response from Greenville Corner, LLC (property owner), submitted by Steve
                  Kyriopoulos, received May 17, 2012.
      5.          Reply to Greeville Corner, submitted by Garyn Perrett, received May 30, 2012.
      6.          Response from Wellsville City, submitted by Bruce L. Jorgensen, Olson & Hoggan,
                  PC, received June 1, 2012.
      7.          Reply submitted by Mr. Perrett, received June 20, 2012.
      8.          Reply submitted by Mr. Kyriopoulos, received June 21, 2012.
      9.          Material submitted by Robert Bolton, received July 2, 2012.
      10.         Reply submitted by Mr. Jorgensen, received July 10, 2012.
      11.         Reply submitted by Mr. Perrett, received July 17, 2012.
      12.         Reply submitted by Mr. Jorgensen, received July 23, 2012.
      13.         Reply submitted by Mr. Perrett, Received July 25, 2012.

                                                Background
Greenville Corner, LLC owns 12 acres in Wellsville, at the intersection of Highway 89/91 and
400 South. 1 The property consists of three parcels, all of which are zoned “CH” (Highway

1
  A map of the area identifies the cross street as both “400 North” and “4700 South” (which may be the designation
from another jurisdiction).

Advisory Opinion – Perrett/Wellsville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 28, 2012 Page 2 of 7
Commercial) by the City. The property is located on the east side of the highway, and the
surrounding properties on that side of the road are also zoned commercial. There are a few
residential properties directly across the highway, and some commercial businesses across 400
South. 2 A railroad track borders these commercial properties. The Greenville Corner property is
not developed, but the owners have allowed a temporary produce stand to be placed near the
intersection during summer months. The property’s owners indicate that a service station was
located on the property in the past, but that building was demolished several years ago.

Greenville Corner proposes to construct and operate a truck stop on the property. According to
the preliminary plans, access to the truck stop would be directly from Highway 89/91, a short
distance from the intersection, with another access point located on 400 North. 3 The proposed
truck stop facility described in the application is fairly typical: A convenience store, vehicle
maintenance, a car wash, and fuel sales. It would provide fuel, food, and other supplies for
travelers and truck drivers. A site plan indicates a pad for a future restaurant, a future RV parking
area, and parking areas for semi trucks and trailers. It is not clear whether the facility would
include amenities such as showers and a laundry for truck drivers.

The 400 North access point appears to align with the intersection of 900 East, a local road that
leads in a southeasterly direction to join “Main Street” (also designated as State Highway 101).
There are several homes along 900 East, all south of the railroad tracks, and several hundred feet
away from the Greenville Corner property.

All uses in the CH zone are conditional. There are no permitted uses. 4 “Only such uses and
facilities as are specifically authorized in this chapter and title as permitted and conditional uses
shall be allowed. All other uses and facilities are prohibited.” WELLSVILLE CITY CODE. § 10-17-
6. 5 There are 17 conditional uses approved for the CH zone including “Automobile service
station, auto accessories;” “Car and/or truck wash;” “Convenience store, including self-service
gas pumps;” “Repair and maintenance of motor homes, campers, RV trailers and utility trailers;”
and “Restaurant or drive-in café.” Id., 10-9E-3.

The proposed truck stop garnered opposition from neighboring property owners, including at
least one who owns a home on 900 East. These citizens claim that a truck stop will have adverse
effects on the community, such as reduced property values, smoke and particulate matter from
truck exhausts, increased noise, and increased traffic in residential neighborhoods. The citizens
submitted materials detailing the health effects of diesel smoke, noise studies conducted at truck
facilities, and crime statistics from Perry, Utah, which has a truck stop. 6 Realtors provided
opinions on how the proposed facility might impact the values of nearby properties. The citizens
also cited to the City’s subdivision ordinance, stating that the proposed truck stop didn’t meet the
criteria listed in that ordinance. Finally, the citizens argued that a truck stop is not specifically
2
  Overall, the immediate area around the property appears to be rural, with some commercial development along
Highway 89/91, and a few homes. The property is bounded on the east and north by agricultural land.
3
  The access from Highway 89/91 requires approval from the Utah Department of Transportation.
4
  “The purpose of the CH zone is to provide commercial areas on major highways for the location of traveler
services and highway oriented commercial uses.” WELLSVILLE CITY CODE, § 10-9E-1.
5
  Title 10 of the City Code is the “Zoning Ordinance of Wellsville City, Utah”. Id. § 10-1-1.
6
  Perry is located along I-15. It is approximately the same size as Wellsville.

Advisory Opinion – Perrett/Wellsville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 28, 2012 Page 3 of 7
included on the list of conditional uses in the City’s ordinance, and so the City cannot approve
the truck stop.

The City and Greenville Corners answer that any nuisance conditions would be dealt with
through regulation, in the same way that nuisance conditions would be dealt with on any
property. In a similar manner, any problems with crime would be dealt with through
enforcement. The City noted that the proposed truck stop was not a subdivision, so the
subdivision ordinance did not apply.

The City argues that because a truck stop is similar to other uses listed in the CH zone, it is
reasonable to conclude that a truck stop should be allowed. The City explains that the CH zone
is intended for travel-related commercial uses on highways, and that the list of conditional uses
includes automotive sales and service, RV and motor home sales and service, fuel sales, car/truck
wash, and restaurant. The City and Greenville Corners argue that these allowed conditional uses
are all components of truck stops, so it is reasonable to conclude that a truck stop may be
approved in a CH zone.

                                             Analysis
      The City’s Zoning Ordinance Does Not Include “Truck Stop” as an Allowed
      Conditional Use, so the Proposed Facility Cannot be Approved as a Truck Stop.

Because the City’s zoning ordinance does not list “truck stop” as an allowed conditional use,
Greenville Corner’s proposed facility cannot be approved. It is acknowledged that the proposed
facility consists of component parts which are allowed as conditional uses. Some of the
approved uses are typical components of a truck stop, such as fuel sales, automobile service
station, convenience store, restaurant, and car or truck wash. Any or all of these components
could be approved on the Greenville Corner property, but a truck stop is more than just a
combination of uses approved for the CH zone. It is improper to presume that by including such
individual components on the list of allowed conditional uses the City had impliedly chosen to
allow truck stops as well.

The City’s ordinances cannot be interpreted to allow a truck stop on the parcel. There is no
question that “truck stop” is not on the list of allowable uses in Wellsville City’s CH zone.
Section 10-9E-3 of the Wellsville City Code lists 17 conditional uses which are allowed in the
CH zone. Those listed uses do not include “Truck stop,” or any term similar to “truck stop.” In
fact, the term does not appear at all in the City’s ordinances. As is explained below, the City’s
code cannot be reasonably interpreted to allow truck stops in the CH zone.

      A. Standards of Statutory Interpretation.

Statutory interpretation begins with the plain language of the ordinance. “When interpreting
statutes, our primary objective . . . is to give effect to the legislature's intent. To discern
legislative intent, we look first to the statute's plain language. In doing so, we presume that the
legislature used each word advisedly and read each term according to its ordinary and accepted


Advisory Opinion – Perrett/Wellsville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 28, 2012 Page 4 of 7
meaning. Additionally, we read the plain language of the statute as a whole and interpret its
provisions in harmony with other statutes in the same chapter.” Selman v. Box Elder County,
2011 UT 18, ¶ 18, 251 P.3d 804, 807 (quotations and alterations omitted).

Three specific paradigms of statutory interpretation are important to this analysis: First, “the
expression of one should be interpreted as the exclusion of another.” Biddle v. Washington
Terrace City, 1999 UT 110, ¶ 30, 993 P.2d 875, 879. In other words, an omission in an ordinance
should be given effect by a presumption that the omission was purposeful. Id.; see also Carrier
v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98, ¶ 30, 104 P.3d 1208, 1216. Secondly, “since zoning ordinances
are in derogation of a property owner’s use of land . . . any ordinance prohibiting a proposed use
should be strictly construed in favor of allowing the use.” Id. 2004 UT 98, ¶ 31, 104 P.3d at
1217. Finally, a local government’s interpretation of its own ordinances is allowed “some level
of non-binding deference . . ..” Fox v. Park City, 2008 UT 85, ¶ 11, 200 P.3d 182.

      B. The City’s Ordinances Cannot be Interpreted as Allowing a Truck Stop as an “Implied”
         Use Based on Possible Similarity to Other Allowed Uses.

Using the statutory interpretation rules listed above, the language of the City’s ordinance cannot
support a conclusion that a truck stop may be approved because it is somewhat similar to allowed
conditional uses. The plain language of § 10-9E-3 approves 17 conditional uses for the CH
zone. 7 It must be presumed that the City Council chose those 17 uses advisedly, and also chose
not to include certain uses, including truck stops. 8 Thus, the legislative intent, evidenced by the
plain language of § 10-9E-3, is that truck stops are not allowed uses in the CH zone.

The 17 listed conditional uses allow a fair range of activity, but that range cannot be stretched to
include a truck stop. Although a truck stop is similar to some of the allowed uses, it is
nevertheless a significantly different land use than those listed in the CH zone. The City and the
property owner argue that a truck stop should be allowed because that use is similar enough to
some of the uses listed, particularly automotive sales and service, fuel sales, repair and
maintenance of RV and motor homes, and even farm equipment sales. Admittedly, this argument
is not without merit. In fact, the proposed facility is comprised of four allowed uses: (1) Fuel
sales, (2) convenience store, (3) car wash, and (4) auto/truck service.9 The plans also show a
truck parking area, a future restaurant site, and an RV parking area. 10 Truck stops generally
include these components. 11

7
  There are no permitted uses in the CH zone. WELLSVILLE CITY CODE, § 10-9E-2; see also id., § 10-17-6 (Uses not
listed as permitted or conditional are prohibited.)
8
   It is not necessary to prove that the City Council expressly rejected “truck stop” as an allowable use. It is
presumed that if the City Council had wished to include “truck stop” as an allowed use, it would have.
9
   “Convenience store, including self-service gas pumps” is listed as a use in the CH zone.
10
   RV parking is not a listed use, but “parking lot” is. It is not clear whether the proposed RV parking would include
hookups for short-term RV camping.
11
    The City code does not have a definition of “truck stop,” nor is one found in the Utah Code. Salt Lake City
adopted the following definition, which appears to be typical: “TRUCK STOP: A building site and structures where
the business of maintenance, servicing, storage or repair of trucks, tractor-trailer rigs, eighteen (18) wheel tractor-
trailer rigs, buses and similar commercial or freight vehicles is conducted, including the sale and dispensing of
motor fuel or other petroleum products and the sale of accessories or equipment for trucks and similar commercial

Advisory Opinion – Perrett/Wellsville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 28, 2012 Page 5 of 7
A truck stop, however, is a different and distinct land use, and not just a group of component
parts. A truck stop is commonly understood to be a business catering to larger tractor-trailer rigs,
in addition to automobile traffic. In general, a truck stop requires a large parcel and large
buildings. 12 They also alter traffic patterns, because they are intended to attract commercial
trucking traffic. 13 Accommodations for the larger tractor-trailers is a unique impact of a truck
stop, and so it is more than just a “supersized” gas station. In addition, a combination of
component uses in a single location would have a greater impact than simply the sum of the
impacts attributed to each individual part. Accordingly, this Opinion must conclude that a truck
stop is more than just a combination of component parts. Even though the proposed facility is an
aggregate of allowed uses, those uses cannot somehow combine to allow a different and unique
use that is not included in the City’s ordinances.

As stated above, the City’s interpretation of its own ordinances enjoys a level of “non-binding
deference.” This deference, however, must operate within the language of the ordinance, and
cannot justify inserting uses or terms not found in the language approved by the City. If the City
approved a distinct land use not listed in its ordinance simply because that use is somewhat
similar to allowed uses, the City would effectively be amending its ordinance without proper
approval. 14 This position undermines the City’s authority to regulate land use, and would dilute
the City’s ordinances to little more than general guidelines. In fact, if this approach is followed,
a truck stop could be approved in any of the City’s other commercial zones, because they include
uses “similar” to a truck stop, such as service stations, restaurants, motels, fuel sales, etc. The
City could, of course, amend § 10-9E-3 to include “truck stop” as an allowable use. 15 It cannot,
however, ignore its own ordinances and grant approval to a use that is not listed. 16

      C. The City Could Approve Any of the Uses Listed in § 10-9E-3.

Although the current language of § 10-9E-3 does not allow a truck stop on the Greenville Corner
property, the City may approve any of the other listed uses. Local governments may designate
uses as being “conditional,” meaning that approval may require compliance with additional
conditions meant to mitigate the impact of the use. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-507(1). 17 If a

vehicles. A truck stop may also include overnight sleeping accommodations and restaurant facilities.” SALT LAKE
CITY CODE, § 21A.62.040.
12
   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman researched how other jurisdictions regulate truck stops. There
were fairly consistent references to the area and size of buildings, as well as commercial trucking traffic.
13
   The primary customers of a truck stop are not from the local area, although local citizens may stop there as well.
14
   Along the same lines, the rule that land use ordinances should be construed in favor of the property owner must
also respect the language of the ordinance. While the rule favors property owners, it is not justification to simply
ignore an ordinance in order to achieve a desirable outcome.
15
   This Opinion should not be read as disparaging truck stops. They are perfectly acceptable businesses providing
valuable services to travelers.
16
   See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(2) (“A municipality is bound by the terms and standards of applicable land use
ordinances and shall comply with mandatory provisions of those ordinances”).
17
    "Conditional use" means a land use that, because of its unique characteristics or potential impact on the
municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent land uses, may not be compatible in some areas or may be
compatible only if certain conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts. Id., § 10-9a-
103(5).

Advisory Opinion – Perrett/Wellsville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 28, 2012 Page 6 of 7
use is designated as conditional, the local government must also adopt standards that the
conditional uses must meet. Id. 18 Conditional uses cannot be designated unless standards of
compliance are also adopted by ordinance.

Uses are often designated as conditional because there may be detrimental impacts associated
with the use. The existence of detrimental impacts, however, does not doom a proposed use. An
application for a conditional use may only be denied if the detrimental impacts cannot be
mitigated through reasonable conditions.

            (a) A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are proposed, or
            can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the
            proposed use in accordance with applicable standards.
            (b) If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the imposition of reasonable
            conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use
            may be denied.

Id, § 10-9a-507(2). In essence, standards are goals or objectives, and the conditions are the
means to meet those goals. Adopting objective, measureable standards encourages fairness and
provides the means to gauge success or failure of the conditions.

                                                Conclusion
A local government may designate uses as conditional, but must also adopt compliance standards
for the uses. The Wellsville City Code does not provide for a “truck stop” as a conditional use in
the CH zone. It must be presumed that the City Council left the term out advisedly, and if it
wants to include truck stop, it may amend the ordinance. A truck stop is a distinct land use with
significantly different impacts than those associated with the component parts. It is therefore
inappropriate to conclude that a “truck stop” may be “implied” because other allowed uses are
somewhat similar. Even if the proposed facility consists of a combination of otherwise allowed
uses, because a truck stop is substantially different, it cannot be allowed without an ordinance
amendment.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



18
  The standards do not necessarily need to apply to all conditional uses. An ordinance may designate conditional
uses, and also adopt standards tailored to apply to specific uses, or even to conditional uses in specific zones.

Advisory Opinion – Perrett/Wellsville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 28, 2012 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Thomas G. Bailey, Mayor
              City of Wellsville
              75 E. Main Street
              Wellsville, UT 84339

On this ___________ day of August, 2012, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
