                   Advisory Opinion #133
            Parties: Vicki Kartchner, Cottonwood Heights and Canyons School District
                                       Issued: October 22, 2013

                                         TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                      K: Compliance with Mandatory Land Use Ordinances
                      Other Topics: (v) Interpretation of Ordinances


A school district complied with its legal obligation to submit and review
development plans to a land use authority. The district and the city coordinated
throughout the development planning process and, although late, the district
submitted formal plans to the city, thus meeting its obligation. Moreover, a city is
not required to impose additional parking requirements for each ancillary use in a
development when its ordinance gives it discretion to impose parking
requirements for the more general use.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 SPENCER J. COX           FRANCINE A. GIANI       BRENT N. BATEMAN
Lieutenant Governor       Executive Director      Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




                                               ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                   Vicki Kartchner

      Local Government Entity:                         Cottonwood Heights

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:             Canyons School District

      Type of Property:                                School and Associated Facilities

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                   October 22, 2013

      Opinion Authored By:                             James S. Wright
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       Issues
      1) Did a school district and a municipality comply with the submission and review requirements
      under Utah law relating to the school district’s project’s plans?

      2) Does a school district’s project comply with the applicable parking requirements?

                                      Summary of Advisory Opinion
      1) The Utah Municipal Land Use, Development and Management Act and R277-471-4 of the
      Utah Administrative Code require a school district to submit development plans to the land use
      authority and coordinate with the land use authority prior to developing a school site. In this
      case, while the Canyons School District (the “District”) did not initially formally submit plans
      for its redevelopment of the Butler Middle School site (the “Project”) to the city of Cottonwood
      Heights (the “City” or “Cottonwood Heights”), it coordinated with the City throughout the
      planning process. In addition, after the District realized it had not formally complied with the
      legal requirement to submit plans to the City for review, it did so and the appropriate City official
      reviewed them to achieve technical compliance with the law.

      2) The Cottonwood Heights Code of Ordinances (the “CH Code”) gives the City discretion
      about whether to impose additional parking requirements for ancillary uses in a development. In
      this case, the Project meets the parking requirements for its main use as a middle school and
otherwise complies with applicable CH Code parking provisions. This means that the Project’s
parking plans comply with applicable law even though the City did not apply a parking
requirement for each ancillary use contained in the Project.

                                                        Review
Under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-205, a party may file a Request for an
Advisory Opinion with the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman (“Office”) at any time
prior to the rendering of a final decision by a local land use appeal authority. An Advisory
Opinion provides an early review of significant land use questions before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies arises so that those involved in a land use application or other specific
land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. This review hopefully can help
the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and understand the
relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this Advisory Opinion,
may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

The Office received a Request for an Advisory Opinion from Vicki R. Kartchner on May 21,
2013. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Linda W. Dunlavy, City Recorder at
City of Cottonwood Heights, 1265 E. Fort Union Blvd, #250, Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84047
and to Keith Bradford, General Counsel, Canyons School District at 9150 South 50 West, Sandy,
Utah 84070. The City and the District both received the copy on May 24, 2013.

                                                        Evidence
The Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information in preparing this
Advisory Opinion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion submitted by Vicki R. Kartchner and received by
                 the Office on May 21, 2013.
     2.          Response and attachments from Cottonwood Heights submitted by its attorney Wm.
                 Shane Topham and received by the Office on June 3, 2013 (“Topham Letter”).
     3.          Response and attachments from the District submitted by its attorney Daniel R.
                 Harper and received by the Office on June 14, 2013 (“Harper Letter”).
     4.          Letter from Vicki Kartchner responding to the District’s submission and received by
                 the Office on June 20, 2013 (“Kartchner Letter”).
     5.          Response from Cottonwood Heights submitted by its attorney Wm. Shane Topham
                 and received by the Office on June 22, 2013.
     6.          Letter from Vicki Kartchner responding to Cottonwood Heights’ submission and
                 received by the Office on July 1, 2013.
     7.          Letter from Vicki Kartchner responding to the District’s submission and received by
                 the Office on July 8, 2013.
     8.          Response from the District submitted by Daniel R. Harper and received by the Office
                 on July 16, 2013.



Advisory Opinion – Vicki Kartchner/Cottonwood Heights
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 22, 2013 Page 2 of 7
                                                        Background
The District owns property (the “School Property”) in Cottonwood Heights where it has operated
Butler Middle School and its surrounding grounds for many years. The School Property has
many playing fields available for community use outside of school hours. The District recently
moved forward with their plans to redevelop the School Property. The Project includes
demolishing and rebuilding Butler Middle School with a new auditorium available for City-
sponsored productions and events during non-school hours, redesigning the playing fields and
adding eight tennis courts on the School Property.

The School Property is located in the Public Facilities zone (the “PF Zone”). Schools are a
permitted use in the PF Zone. The District and the City informally discussed the plans relating to
the Project as the District developed them. The City, however, did not formally review the
Project’s plans prior to the commencement of construction. After construction had already
started, the City requested that Jody Hilton, an engineer with Sunrise Engineering, review the
plans for conformity with applicable requirements. Mr. Hilton issued a letter indicating that he
had previously reviewed the building plans and that they complied with applicable law. Brian
Berndt, the City’s Community Development Director, subsequently reviewed the parking for the
Project and issued a written analysis as well.

Ms. Kartchner has lived near the Southwest corner of the School Property for many years. She,
along with other Cottonwood Heights residents, have had longstanding concerns about the
adequacy of the parking at the School Property. Ms. Kartchner and other concerned citizens
raised concerns about the adequacy of the parking during the Project’s planning and
development.

The District has demolished the old Butler Middle School and has commenced construction of
the new school and the reconfiguration of the surrounding fields. Ms. Kartchner maintains that
the District and the City did not comply with state law requiring the submission and review of
this Project’s plans prior to the commencement of construction. In addition, she maintains that
the District has not complied with the parking requirements for this Project under the CH Code.

                                                         Analysis
I.         The District and the City Have Complied with their Obligations to Submit and
           Review Plans and to Coordinate Matters Relating to the Project.

Under UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-305(8) 1 , a school district that develops its land must submit a
development plan and schedule to the municipality’s land use authority, and the land use
authority must respond to the submission with reasonable promptness. This statute states:

            (8) (a) A specified public agency intending to develop its land shall submit to the
           land use authority a development plan and schedule:

1
 Prior to the amendment made to UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-305 in the 2013 General Session, this same provision
was found at UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-305(9).

Advisory Opinion – Vicki Kartchner/Cottonwood Heights
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 22, 2013 Page 3 of 7
                  (i) as early as practicable in the development process, but no later than the
           commencement of construction; and
                  (ii) with sufficient detail to enable the land use authority to assess:
                  (A) the specified public agency's compliance with applicable land use
           ordinances;
                  (B) the demand for public facilities listed in Subsections 11-36a-
           102(16)(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (g) caused by the development;
                  (C) the amount of any applicable fee described in Section 10-9a-510;
                  (D) any credit against an impact fee; and
                  (E) the potential for waiving an impact fee.
                  (b) The land use authority shall respond to a specified public agency's
           submission under Subsection (8)(a) with reasonable promptness in order to allow
           the specified public agency to consider information the municipality provides
           under Subsection (8)(a)(ii) in the process of preparing the budget for the
           development.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-305(8). In addition, under Utah Administrative Code R277-471, the
District must coordinate with the City to ensure that the Project will comply with applicable land
use laws. This rule states in relevant part:

             A. Prior to developing plans and specifications for a new public school, or the
           expansion of an existing public school, school districts and charter schools shall
           coordinate with affected local government land use authorities and utility
           providers to:
             (1) ensure that the siting or expansion of a school in the intended location will
           comply with applicable local general plans and land use laws and will not conflict
           with entitled land uses. . . .

Utah Administrative Code R277-471. In this case, the District and the City have complied with
these laws because they have consulted with each other about the Project’s plans to ensure they
comply with applicable land use law, the District formally submitted plans for the Project to the
City for review and the City’s land use authority reviewed these plans and gave a formal written
response. Even though it appears that the District did not technically comply with UTAH CODE
ANN. § 10-9a-305(8) by not submitting the Project’s plans prior to the commencement of
construction, its subsequent actions, along with the actions of the City, amend this technical
noncompliance, as allowed by Utah law.

           A. The District and the City Have Complied with the Obligation to Coordinate, Submit
              and Review the Project’s Plans.

The District and the City have complied with the requirements of Utah Administrative Code
R277-471 relating to the obligation to coordinate with each other to ensure the Project complied
with applicable land use laws and with UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-305(8). This compliance with
Utah Administrative Code R277-471 occurred because the District consulted with the City about

Advisory Opinion – Vicki Kartchner/Cottonwood Heights
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 22, 2013 Page 4 of 7
the Project’s plans prior to the commencement of construction and the City determined they were
code compliant. Topham Letter, p. 2. The compliance with UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-305(8)
came after an initial failure by the parties to technically comply with its requirements.

Initially, even though the District made the City aware of the Project plans and the City had the
chance to give the District any response it had, the District did not formally submit a
development plan and schedule to Cottonwood Heights’ land use authority and the City did not
formally respond to this submission, as required by law. When Ms. Kartchner made the District
and the City aware that they had not fully complied with UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-305(8), the
District formally submitted the Project’s plans to Cottonwood Heights for review. Harper Letter,
p. 2. This statute requires the District to submit the plans to the City’s land use authority. UTAH
CODE ANN. § 10-9a-305(8)(a). The land use authority is the “person, board, commission,
agency, or other body designated by the local legislative body to act upon a land use
application.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-103(23).

Under Section 19.02.100 of the CH Code, the director of the City’s community development
department or his/her designee is the person charged with reviewing applications for building
permits and land uses and is therefore the “land use authority” for the purposes of UTAH CODE
ANN. § 10-9a-305(8)(a). Brian Berndt is the director of the City’s community development
department, and he asked Jody Hilton, an engineer who had already reviewed the plans on behalf
of the District, to review these plans. 2 Mr. Hilton confirmed in a letter dated January 10, 2013
addressed to Brian Berndt that he had reviewed the plans for the construction of the middle
school and that they complied with all applicable codes. Attachment to the Topham Letter. In
addition, Mr. Berndt reviewed the parking requirements for the Project and summarized his
conclusion that the Project complied with applicable parking requirements in a document entitled
“Plan Review” dated May 30, 2013. Attachment to the Topham Letter.

While there is some ambiguity as to whether or not Mr. Hilton reviewed the Project’s parking
plans for legal compliance based on his letter dated January 10, 2013, it is clear that the director
of the City’s community development department did so and communicated his conclusions in
his May 30, 2013 Plan Review. This action by Mr. Berndt fulfills the requirement to review the
Project’s parking plans for compliance and to communicate the results of the review. Combined,
these reviews fulfill the obligations of the City and the District under UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-
305(8)(a), and as explained below, Utah law allows the City and the District to remedy their
formal technical noncompliance with this statute.

           B. The District Remedied Its Technical Noncompliance with Utah Law.

Utah law allows governments to remedy prior technical failures to comply with the law. See
Ward v. Richfield, 798 P.2d 757, 759 (Utah 1990) (allowing a city to remedy a failure to give
proper public notice of a city council meeting by giving proper notice of a subsequent council
meeting where the council ratified the actions taken at the meeting with the defective notice).
This means that even though the District did not technically comply with the requirement in

2
  No prohibition appears to exist on having the City also hire the same engineer the District already had hired to
review the Project’s plans on its behalf.

Advisory Opinion – Vicki Kartchner/Cottonwood Heights
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 22, 2013 Page 5 of 7
UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-305(8)(a) to submit its development plans to Cottonwood Heights’
land use authority prior to construction of its Project despite consulting with the City about these
plans, Utah law allows its subsequent formal submittal and reviews to cure this technical
noncompliance. This means that when the District formally submitted the Project’s plans to the
City and the City’s land use authority confirmed the plans comply with all applicable law, the
District remedied the prior technical failure to comply with this law.

II.        The Project’s Parking Plans Comply with Applicable Parking Ordinances.

The CH Code governs the required parking for the Project. Chapter 19.80 of the Zoning title of
this code contains the requirements for off-street parking. In interpreting an ordinance, Utah law
requires to “begin first by looking to the plain language of the ordinance.” Carrier v. Salt Lake
County, 104 P.3d 1208, 1216 (Utah 2004). In addition, Utah law provides that a city’s
interpretation of its own zoning ordinances is allowed “some level of non-binding deference.”
Fox v. Park City, 200 P.3d 182, 185 (Utah 2008) (other citations omitted). The City’s
Community Development Director, Brian Berndt has issued a Plan Review dated May 30, 2013
analyzing the Project’s parking and concluding that it complies with applicable City law. Based
on the plain language of the City’s parking provisions in its code and the nonbinding level of
deference given to a city’s interpretation of its own ordinances, the CH Code supports Mr.
Berndt’s conclusions that both the quantity and location of the parking comply with the
applicable ordinances.

           A. The Number of Parking Spaces Complies with Applicable Law.

Cottonwood Heights has adopted the ITE manual of parking generation rates (the “ITE Manual”)
to determine the parking requirements for particular uses. CH Code § 19.80.120. The ITE
Manual provides that a middle school (land use 522) requires 0.11 vehicles per student or 1.2
vehicles per employee. Attachment to the Harper Letter. Based on the student enrollment
number of 905 provided by the District, the middle school will require 100 parking spaces.
Attachment to the Harper Letter. The Project will provide a total of 340 spaces and therefore
meets the required parking spaces for the middle school. Ms. Kartchner does not appear to
dispute the fact that the middle school itself has sufficient parking, rather she argues that the
tennis courts, playing fields and auditorium that comprise part of the Project mean that the
Project needs significantly more parking. The CH Code, however, does not require imposing a
separate parking requirement on each of these ancillary uses to the middle school.

Section 19.80.050(C) of the CH Code states: “When a development contains multiple uses, more
than one parking requirement may be applied.” (emphasis added). The plain language of this
provision gives the City the ability to require separate parking for each separate use in the
Project, but does not require it to do so. This means that so long as the middle school
development includes the courts, playing fields and auditorium as ancillary parts of the Project,
the City is under no obligation to require additional parking for each one of these separate uses.

Mr. Berndt’s May 30, 2013 Plan Review concludes that even if the City decided to require
parking for tennis courts and for the recreational fields as part of a park, the Project would still
meet the requirement under the ITE Manual requirements. Ms. Kartchner argues that the City

Advisory Opinion – Vicki Kartchner/Cottonwood Heights
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 22, 2013 Page 6 of 7
needs to require additional parking spaces for the auditorium in the school and that the proper
ITE Manual designation for the field is “soccer complex,” not a city park. Kartchner Letter p. 1.
Given that the CH Code does not require the City to apply parking requirements for these
ancillary uses, the auditorium within the school does not necessitate any further parking spaces
than those provided for the middle school and this Advisory Opinion does not need to determine
whether the City correctly determined that the soccer fields fall under the ITE Manual
designation for a city park as opposed to a soccer complex.

           B. The Location of the Parking Complies with Applicable Law.

Ms. Kartchner also argues that the District does not provide parking within 600 feet of some of
the playing fields, as required under the CH Code. Section 19.80.020(E) of the CH Code states:
“Required off-street parking areas for nonresidential uses shall be placed within 600 feet of the
main entrance to the building.” The City provides information that the District provides parking
within 600 feet from the main entrance to the middle school. This complies with the plain
language of the CH Code. The CH Code does not contain language that appears to contradict the
City’s position that the District does not need to provide parking for all of the playing fields
within 600 feet of the fields, particularly when the CH Code does not require any separate
parking for the fields in addition to what it requires for the middle school.

This Advisory Opinion’s conclusion that the parking for the Project meets the applicable legal
requirements does not mean that Ms. Kartchner’s concerns were baseless. She raised legitimate
questions about the ultimate legality of the issues addressed in this Advisory Opinion. In
addition, this Advisory Opinion does not pass any judgment on whether the Project will contain
sufficient parking for those who use it—it only concludes that the Project’s parking meets the
legal requirements under the CH Code.

                                                        Conclusion
The CH Code gives the City discretion about whether to mandate parking requirements for each
ancillary use in the Project. The Project’s parking meets the requirement for a middle school and
the City has not required the District to provide additional parking for every ancillary use in the
Project. In addition, parking is located within 600 feet from the front door of the middle school,
and therefore the Project’s parking plans comply with applicable law. The Project may or may
not have sufficient parking based on its actual use, however, this is a separate issue from whether
or not the parking complies with applicable CH Code provisions.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Vicki Kartchner/Cottonwood Heights
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 22, 2013 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:


This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached Advisory Opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63G-7-401.

These provisions of state code require the delivery of the Advisory Opinion to the agent at the
address designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental
entity in the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code.

The persons and addresses designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database are as
follows:

              Linda W. Dunlavy, City Recorder
              City of Cottonwood Heights
              1265 E. Fort Union Blvd, #250
              Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84047


              Keith Bradford, General Counsel
              Canyons School District
              9150 South 500 West
              Sandy, Utah 84070


On this 22nd day of October, 2013, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
foregoing governmental offices by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the persons shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
