                   Advisory Opinion #150
                                Parties: David Davis and Tooele City
                                      Issued: December 19, 2014

                                         TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                  Exactions on Development

An exaction must be roughly proportional to the impact caused by new
development. If a new structure replaces an old one, the impact of the new
development should be reduced by the impact attributed to the old, which reduces
the level of an acceptable exaction. An exaction may be charged on any “new”
impact, over and above the old.

The amount of water exacted for residential development should be determined
based on reliable information related to the amount of water required for that
development. Basing residential water requirements on the maximum amount of
water the state considers “beneficial” for agricultural irrigation is not the type of
individualized determination required for valid exactions.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 SPENCER J. COX           FRANCINE A. GIANI       BRENT N. BATEMAN
Lieutenant Governor       Executive Director      Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




                                               ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                   David Davis

      Local Government Entity:                         Tooele City

      Property Owner:                                  We Create LC

      Type of Property:                                Residential Lot

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                   December 18, 2014

      Opinion Authored By:                             Elliot R. Lawrence
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       Issues
      May a City require new development to dedicate water rights, if the new development replaces
      an older structure?

      How much water may a City require?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
      Local governments have a legitimate interest in providing adequate water service. Requiring new
      development to dedicate enough water rights to meet the increased need for service is a
      reasonable means to accomplish the important public objective. If new construction replaces an
      older structure, the impact of the new development should be reduced by the impact related to
      the old. An exaction on new development may be based on its additional impact over and above
      the impact of the older structure.

      The amount of water that may be required of new construction must be roughly equal to the
      amount needed to provide service. A local government must make an individualized
      determination that an exaction is roughly proportional to the impact caused by the new
      development. Simply citing the maximum amount of water that may be diverted to beneficial use
      is not the level of individualized determination required to justify the amount of water required.
                                                   Review

A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from David Davis on October 30, 2014. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Michelle Y. Pitt, Tooele City Recorder, at 90
North Main, Tooele, Utah. According to the return receipt, the City received the Request on
November 3, 2014.

                                                  Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by David Davis,
                 received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman on October 30, 2014
     2.          Response from Tooele City, with attachments, submitted by Roger Baker, Attorney
                 for the City, received November 13, 2014.
     3.          Reply submitted by Mr. Davis, received November 19, 2014.
     4.          Reply submitted by the City, received via email on November 25, 2014.

                                                  Background
David Davis owns a lot located at 722 West Vine Street in Tooele. 1 The lot is approximately
24,750 square feet, or .57 acres. In September of 2014, he applied for a building permit to
construct a home and garage on the lot, and paid $500 as a deposit. 2 Mr. Davis states that he is
replacing a home that existed on the property. 3 The City disagrees, however, and maintains that
the new home is not a “replacement” structure.




1
  The property owner is listed as “We Create, LC.” Mr. Davis applied for a permit to construct a home, so it is
presumed that he had authority from the owner to carry out the construction.
2
  The total permit fee was listed as $2,356.12. In June of 2014, Mr. Davis was granted a conditional use permit to
construct a 2400 square foot garage on the property. One of the conditions was that a primary residence also be
constructed.
3
  Mr. Davis asserted that he spent over $12,000.00 removing an older home from the property.

Advisory Opinion – Davis/Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 18, 2014 Page 2 of 9
The City informed Mr. Davis that he would be required to dedicate 2.13 acre-feet (a-f) of water
as a condition of permit approval. 4 The amount of water was determined to be what was
necessary for both indoor (or culinary) use and outdoor irrigation. The City calculated the needed
amount of water based on information provided by the State of Utah’s Division of Drinking
Water and the Division of Water Rights. The state information adopted by the City indicates that
each year, a residential home needs .45 a-f per year for indoor use (146,000 gallons). The state
has also established 4.0 a-f per acre (1,300,000 gallons) as the irrigation duty for Tooele County. 5

Mr. Davis feels that the City is not justified in requiring dedication of the water, because he is
replacing an existing home. No new water is needed, because the replacement home does not
create a need for additional water.6 The City allows a property owner to receive credit for any
water rights that were already dedicated for development on a property. 7 However, the City
maintains that no water rights associated with 722 Vine Street have been dedicated to the City. 8

On October 20, 2014, Mr. Davis informed the City that he was withdrawing his permit
application, evidently because of his disagreement over the water dedication requirement. The
City states that it considers his permit application voided. Because the permit application was
withdrawn, the City argues that the Request for Advisory Opinion is moot.

                                                     Analysis
           The Water Dedication Requirement is an Exaction, Which Must Satisfy
           Rough Proportionality Analysis.

The City correctly notes that Mr. Davis voluntarily withdrew his application for a building
permit, and was thus not obligated to dedicate any water rights. However, since it appears that
the dedication requirement is imposed by the City’s ordinances, it will be required no matter who
applies for a building permit. 9 Moreover, Mr. Davis raises an important issue regarding the
extent of water rights that may be required. Therefore, this Opinion will evaluate the City’s
requirements as if they had been imposed.

Because the City’s water dedication requirement is a condition of building permit approval, it is
an exaction, which must satisfy rough proportionality analysis. “A development exaction is a
government-mandated contribution of property imposed as a condition of approving a
developer’s project.” B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2012 UT 26, ¶16, 282 P.3d


4
  An acre-foot is a measure of water volume. It is equal to one foot of water over an area of one acre, or 325,851
gallons.
5
  To calculate the water needed for outdoor irrigation, the City excluded the area of the home, garage, and driveway,
leaving approximately 18,300 square feet of area to be irrigated (.42 acres). Based on the 4.0 a-f per acre figure, the
total determined for annual outdoor use was 1.68 a-f (or approximately 550,000 gallons)
6
  Mr. Davis cited several examples of “replacement homes” that were not required to dedicate water to the City.
7
  Letter from Roger Baker (Received November 12, 2014), at 2.
8
  As has already been discussed, the City does not consider the new home to be replacing an older home.
9
  See TOOELE CITY CODE, § 7-26-1 (“all applicants requesting development approval shall provide water rights in an
amount sufficient to satisfy the anticipated future water needs of the respective development . . ..”)

Advisory Opinion – Davis/Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 18, 2014 Page 3 of 9
41, 45 (“B.A.M. III”). The City acknowledges that its requirement is an exaction, as well as its
responsibility to conduct rough proportionality analysis. 10

           A. Rough Proportionality Analysis

Local governments may require exactions in exchange for development approval, as long as each
exaction satisfies rough proportionality analysis. Exactions are a type of property taking, and the
rough proportionality test “protects the Fifth Amendment right to just compensation for property
the government takes when owners apply for land-use permits.” Koontz v. St. Johns River Water
Management District, 133 S.Ct. 2586, 2594 (2013) (citations omitted). 11 The Takings Clause,
found in the Fifth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, “provides that private property shall not
‘be taken for public use, without just compensation.’” Lingle v. Chevron, USA, 544 U.S. 528, 536
(quoting U.S. CONST. amend. V). 12 The Supreme Court has emphasized that the Takings Clause
“was designed to bar [the] Government from forcing some people alone to bear public burdens
which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.” Armstrong v. United
States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960).

The Utah Legislature codified the rough proportionality test in § 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code:

           A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in
           a land use application, . . . , if:
                   (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
           each exaction; and
                   (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
           impact of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-508(1).

That language was borrowed directly from the United States Supreme Court’s decisions in
Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825, 107 S.Ct. 3141 (1987) and Dolan v. City of
Tigard, 512 U.S 374, 114 S.Ct. 2309 (1994). (See B.A.M. Development v. Salt Lake County,
2006 UT 2, ¶ 41, 128 P.3d 1161, 1170 (“B.A.M. I”)). In those two landmark cases, the Supreme
Court promulgated rules for determining when an exaction may be validly imposed under the
federal constitution’s Takings Clause. 13 This has come to be known as the “rough

10
   See Letter from Roger Baker (Received November 12, 2014), at 2. See also TOOELE CITY CODE, § 7-26-1
(“Satisfaction of this water rights acquisition policy and the accompanying conveyance requirements shall be
considered as a condition to and requirement of approval for all such applications.”)
11
   “[A] unit of government may not condition the approval of a land-use permit on the owner’s relinquishment of a
portion of his property unless there is a ‘nexus’ and ‘rough proportionality’ between government’s demand and the
effects of the proposed land use.” Koontz, 133 S.Ct. at 2591.
12
   See U.S. CONST., amend. V. (“nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation”). The
Takings Clause of the Federal Constitution is applicable to state actions (including local subdivisions of states) by
the language of the Fourteenth Amendment. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U.S. 226 (1897).
13
   The Supreme Court has interpreted the Takings Clause as limiting a government’s ability to impose conditions on
development. Furthermore, “[t]he Utah Constitution reinforces the protection of private property against

Advisory Opinion – Davis/Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 18, 2014 Page 4 of 9
proportionality” test. The analysis requires a “nexus,” or a link between the exaction and a
legitimate government interest, and it also requires that the exaction be roughly proportionate to
the impact caused by the new development.

           B. An Essential Link Between the Exaction and a Legitimate Public Interest

The City’s water dedication requirement meets the first half of the rough proportionality
analysis. Ensuring an adequate water supply for a community is a valid governmental objective.
See Summit Water Distribution Co. v. Mountain Regional Water Special Service Dist., 2005 UT
App 66, ¶¶ 11-14, 108 P.3d 119, 121-22. Requiring developers to provide sufficient water rights
for a new development is a reasonable means to accomplish that objective. There is thus no
question that there is an essential link between the City’s interest in an adequate water supply
and its requirement that an applicant provide water to satisfy the needs of new development.

           C. Roughly Proportionate to the Impact Caused by New Development.

It appears unlikely, however, that the amount of water required by the City meets the second half
of the rough proportionality test. The City has not shown that the amount of water it requires is
roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact attributed to Mr. Davis’s home.

                       1. The Relationship Between an Exaction and the Impact of Development

This aspect of the analysis stems from the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Dolan v. Tigard,
where the rough proportionality test was first established. The Court explained that the analysis
required consideration of “whether the degree of the exactions demanded by the city’s permit
conditions [bore] the required relationship to the projected impact of petitioner’s proposed
development.” Dolan, 512 U.S. at 388. The Court concluded that a local government “must
make some sort of individualized determination that the required dedication is related both in
nature and extent to the impact of the proposed development.” Id., 512 U.S. at 391. To
emphasize, the government bears the burden of proving that each exaction meets the rough
proportionality test. Id., 512 U.S. at 391, n.8. The term “rough proportionality” was used to
describe the acceptable relationship between the exaction and the development’s impact. 14

The Utah Supreme Court further honed proportionality analysis in B.A.M. Development, LLC v.
Salt Lake County, 2008 UT 45, 196 P.3d 601 (“B.A.M. II”), the second in the triumvirate of
“B.A.M.” exaction decisions. In that opinion, the Court explained that rough proportionality

uncompensated governmental takings . . . .” B.A.M. I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 31, 128 P.3d at 1168. See also UTAH CONST. art.
I, § 22 (“Private property shall not be taken or damaged for public use without just compensation”).
14
   The Court adopted the “reasonable relationship” approach used by the Utah Supreme Court in Call v. West Jordan,
606 P.2d 217 (Utah 1979) (A required dedication “should have some reasonable relationship to the needs created by
the subdivision.”); see Dolan, 512 U.S. at 390-91. However, the U.S. Supreme Court chose the term “rough
proportionality” to designate the analysis.

Advisory Opinion – Davis/Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 18, 2014 Page 5 of 9
analysis “has two aspects: first, the exaction and impact must be related in nature; second, they
must be related in extent.” B.A.M. II, 2008 UT 45, ¶ 9, 196 P.3d at 603. The “nature” aspect
focuses on the relationship between the purported impact and proposed exaction. The Court
described the approach “in terms of a solution and a problem . . .. [T]he impact is the problem, or
the burden which the community will bear because of the development. The exaction should
address the problem. If it does, then the nature component has been satisfied.” Id., 2008 UT 45,
¶ 10, 196 P.3d at 603-04.

The “extent” aspect of the rough proportionality analysis measures the impact against the
proposed exaction in terms of cost:

           The most appropriate measure is cost—specifically, the cost of the exaction and
           the impact to the developer and the municipality, respectively. The impact of the
           development can be measured as the cost to the municipality of assuaging the
           impact. Likewise, the exaction can be measured as the value of the land to be
           dedicated by the developer at the time of the exaction.

Id., 2008 UT 45, ¶ 11, 196 P.3d at 604. The court continued by holding that “roughly
proportional” means “roughly equivalent.” Thus, in order to be valid, the cost of an exaction
must be roughly equivalent to the cost that a local government would incur to address (or
“assuage”) the impact attributable to a land use.

In the third “B.A.M.” decision, Utah’s Supreme Court underscored its analysis, firmly tying the
exaction to the needs created by the development:

           [N]ot only must the nature of an exaction relate to government purpose or need
           (in that the exaction must alleviate the burdens imposed on infrastructure by the
           development), but the extent of the exaction must also be roughly proportional to
           the government’s need for infrastructure improvements created by the
           development.

B.A.M. III, 2012 UT 26, ¶26, 282 P.3d at 47. 15

                       2. The Nature of the City’s Required Exaction

It is not clear whether the required water dedication meets the “nature” aspect of rough
proportionality analysis, because the City has not shown that additional water is necessary to
“solve” the “problem” caused by construction of the new home. Mr. Davis asserts that he is
replacing a home that previously existed on the property, while the City maintains that the Davis
home is an entirely new building, not a replacement home. Hence, the City argues that the home
imposes a new burden on the City’s water resources, and that dedication of water rights is
necessary.

15
   Water rights are part of a local government’s infrastructure. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36a-102(16) (water rights
listed as public facilities).

Advisory Opinion – Davis/Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 18, 2014 Page 6 of 9
Because a valid exaction may only be required to “alleviate the burdens imposed on
infrastructure by development,” the City may not require dedication of water rights to the extent
that the new home replaces an old one. 16 A new home would have a similar impact on the City’s
water resources as the old one, so there is no “new” burden on the City’s infrastructure.
However, if it is shown that the new structure uses more water than the old, the City could
require enough water to make up the difference. 17

Determining whether a home existed on the property should be a fairly straightforward inquiry.
A number of public records, beginning with those of the Tooele County Assessor, could confirm
whether or not a home previously existed on the parcel. In addition, statements from neighbors
or former owners could be obtained, along with records of maintenance or construction, if
available. 18 If a home which received water service from the City did exist on the parcel, the
overall water needs of the new structure would need to be reduced by the amount of water used
by the old home. Any “new” needs, over and above that needed for the old home, could be
required by the City as a new exaction. 19

                       3. The Extent of the City’s Required Exaction

In the material submitted for this Opinion, the City did not adequately prove that the amount of
water required was roughly proportionate to the water needs caused by the new home. “[T]he
extent of the exaction must also be roughly proportional to the government’s need for
infrastructure improvements created by the development.” B.A.M. III, 2012 UT 26 ¶26, 282 P.3d
at 47. The City determined that the new home on 722 West Vine would require a total of 2.13 a-f
of water each year. This was based on the average annual “indoor” water use for residences, or
.45 a-f, plus the amount the City stated was needed yearly for outdoor irrigation, based on 4.0 a-f



16
   If a home with water service did exist on the parcel, but the City now requires dedication of water rights because
none were dedicated when the previous home was built, that exaction still violates the rough proportionality test. In
that case the City would be requiring the developer to solve a problem that his development activity did not cause.
An exaction cannot be used to require one party to bear a burden that belongs to another.
17
   See Cresta Bella, LP v. Poway Unified School District, 218 Cal. App. 4th 358 (Cal. Ct. App. 2013). In that case, a
property developer demolished a 248-unit apartment complex, and built a larger complex with 368 units. The local
school district imposed school impact fees based on the total size of the new complex. The California Court of
Appeals held that the district should have excluded an area equal to the old complex, unless the district could show
that replacing the “old” area would create a greater impact than that attributed to the former complex. The district
could have imposed impact fees (a type of exaction) on the “additional” impact attributed to the increased size of the
complex. Utah law, as cited above in B.A.M. III, requires the same approach (the exaction must be proportionate to
the need for infrastructure created by new development).
18
   For example, Mr. Davis claims that he spent several thousand dollars to remove an older home from the parcel. If
he hired a contractor to do the work, that contractor could provide reliable evidence of whether a home existed or
not.
19
   If the Davis home is not a replacement structure (as the City maintains), then the new home could be required to
provide the water needed to offset its impact on the City’s resources.

Advisory Opinion – Davis/Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 18, 2014 Page 7 of 9
per acre. 20 The figure used for indoor water appears to have been established by the Utah
Division of Drinking Water, and is accepted throughout the state. 21 The City states that the 4.0 a-
f per acre figure was derived from the irrigation duty established by the Utah Division of Water
Rights. 22

The irrigation duty is the maximum amount of water that may be diverted for crop irrigation. In
other words, the duty is the limit of water that can be diverted for a beneficial use (anything
greater would not be considered beneficial). The maximum duty is based on the amount of water
needed to irrigate alfalfa.23 The City has not shown that 4.0 a-f per acre is needed for the outdoor
watering needs of the proposed Davis home. “[T]he city must make some sort of individualized
determination that the required dedication is related both in nature and extent to the impact of the
proposed development.” Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391 (emphasis added). Simply citing to the State’s
limit of the maximum amount of water that may be diverted does not provide the type of
individualized determination required to calculate the amount of water needed for a single
residence.

Information provided by the State indicates that the amount of water needed annually for
residential irrigation is significantly less than 4.0 a-f per acre. In 2009, the state’s Division of
Water Resources published a survey of water use. See 2009 Residential Water Use: Survey
Results and Analysis of Residential Water Use for Seventeen Communities in Utah, Utah
Department of Natural Resources (November 2009). 24 That survey determined that the average
outdoor use (for outdoor residential watering) was 729 gallons per day (which translates to .8171
a-f per year). Id., at 18. 25 The survey also concluded that most homes in Utah are using too
much water for outdoor irrigation and watering. Id., at 19. 26

This Opinion does not attempt to calculate the amount of water necessary for Mr. Davis’s home.
It merely observes that the City has not provided the detailed analysis envisioned by the United
States and Utah Supreme Courts, and that the available data seems to indicate that a lesser
amount of water may be needed for residential watering. It is not necessary for the City to
conduct a detailed analysis for every proposed development, but it should be able to support its
decision with data specific to each type of land use. The City did calculate the amount of water
needed based on the area of the parcel, but it did not show that 4.0 a-f/acre was a valid basis to

20
   The City excluded the area of structures and driveways, and found that approximately 18,000 square feet would be
irrigated. There has been no indication of how extensive the irrigation would need to be. The parcel is only one-half
acre, so agricultural production is probably unlikely. There was also no information provided indicating whether
water would be needed for livestock.
21
    See “Water Use Information for Water Right Applications,” Utah Division of Water Rights, available at:
http://www.waterrights.utah.gov/wrinfo/policy/wateruse.asp.
22
   Letter from Roger Baker, November 7, 2014, at 2.
23
      Chad R. Reid, et al., “Water Rights in Utah,” Utah State University Extension
http://extension.usu.edu/files/publications/publication/ENGR_WaterManagement_2008-01pr.pdf (December 2008)
at 2.
24
   Available at http://www.water.utah.gov/OtherReports/RWU_Study.pdf
25
   .8171 a-f is approximately 266,300 gallons. Outdoor water is usually used only from April through October. The
survey also found that ½ acre lots use an average of 682 gallons per day, or .7645 a-f per year. 2009 Residential
Water Use, at 20.
26
   Homes with automatic sprinklers overwater by as much as 30%. Id., at 19.

Advisory Opinion – Davis/Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 18, 2014 Page 8 of 9
determine water needs for residential uses. The City must demonstrate that the amount of water it
requires is tied to the amount needed for a home.

                                           Conclusion
The City recognizes that its requirement that Mr. Davis dedicate water rights to the City is an
exaction, which must comply with rough proportionality analysis. Ensuring an adequate water
supply is a legitimate government objective, and requiring new development to dedicate water
rights is a reasonable way to accomplish that goal. Thus, the City’s water dedication requirement
meets the first half rough proportionality analysis.

It is not clear whether the exaction satisfies the second half of the test. In the first place, Mr.
Davis and the City disagree that there was an older home on the parcel. If there was a home that
previously received water service from the City, then the impact of the new home should be
reduced by the use of the older structure. If that is the case, the City may require additional water
rights to meet the water needs of the new home over and above the impact of the old. If there
was never a home on the parcel, the City may require dedication of sufficient water to meet the
needs of the new home.

The amount of water required to be dedicated must be roughly equal to the amount needed to
satisfy the needs of the new home. The City relies upon data from the State Division of Water
Rights to determine the water needed for outdoor irrigation. However, it has not shown the level
of individualized determination necessary to justify the amount of water required. It is not
enough to simply refer to the irrigation duty established as the maximum limit of water use. The
City must show that the amount of water it requires is roughly proportionate to the amount of
water it would need to provide service to the home.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Davis/Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 18, 2014 Page 9 of 9
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                      Michelle Y. Pitt
                      Tooele City Recorder
                      90 North Main
                      Tooele, Utah 84074

On this ___________ Day of December, 2014, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
