                     Advisory Opinion #131
                               Parties: Lawrence Meadows and Park City
                                           Issued: October 18, 2013

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                        Other Topics (viii): Appealing Land Use Decisions

A local government may designate different appeal authorities to hear different
types of appeals, even if different aspects of the same land use application must
be appealed to the different authorities. Dividing issues amongst appellate bodies
does not violate the Utah Code’s prohibition on successive or duplicative appeals.

An Advisory Opinion is not a substitute for the appeal procedure established by
ordinance.




                                                DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each
Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was
prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes
or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide
general guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be
considered legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current
laws.




                     The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                                  (801) 530-6391
                     Utah Department of Commerce                                                 1-877-882-4662
                     PO Box 146702                                                           Fax: (801) 530-6338
                     160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                     www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                     Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                         propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 SPENCER J. COX
Lieutenant Governor



                                         ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                Lawrence M. Meadows

      Local Government Entity:                      Park City

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:          505 Woodside Development, LLC

      Type of Property:                             Residential Building

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                October 18, 2013

      Opinion Authored By:                          Elliot R. Lawrence
                                                    Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                    Issues
      May a local government divide issues raised in an appeal, and designate different appeal
      authorities to consider the issues separately?

                                 Summary of Advisory Opinion
      The Utah Code authorizes local governments to designate different bodies as the appeal
      authorities for different types of issues. Different types of issues raised in one appeal action may
      be reviewed concurrently by the appropriate appeal authorities. If the designation is established
      by a local ordinance, the Utah Code requires that the appeal be conducted according to that
      ordinance.

      If no appeal is sought after a decision by an administrative body, the decision stands. The Office
      of the Property Rights Ombudsman may issue Advisory Opinions, but the Opinion is not a
      substitute for the appeal procedure established by statute. Finally, the Office of the Property
      Rights Ombudsman may decline to analyze an issue if the analysis will have no effect on the
      outcome of an administrative decision.
                                               Review
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Lawrence Meadows on March 19, 2013.
A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Janet Scott, Park City Recorder, at 445
Marsac Ave., Park City, Utah 84060. The return information indicates that the City received the
Request on March 22, 2013.

                                              Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Lawrence
                 Meadows, received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, March 19,
                 2013. Additional materials were submitted on March 26 and April 3, 2013.
     2.          Materials submitted on behalf of the property owner, 505 Woodside Development, by
                 Bradley Cahoon and Graham Gilbert, received April 3, 2013.
     3.          Response submitted on behalf of Park City by Polly Samuels McLean, Assistant City
                 Attorney, received April 24, 2013.
     4.          Materials submitted by Park City, received June 13, 2013.
     5.          Materials submitted by 505 Woodside Development, received July 12, 2013.


                                              Background
This Opinion revisits a proposal to remodel a home located at 505 Woodside Avenue in Park
City. In July of 2010, the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman issued an Advisory Opinion
requested by Lawrence Meadows, concerning the same property and a proposal to remodel the
home. Mr. Meadows has requested this Opinion to evaluate aspects of a new remodeling
proposal.

The property is owned by 505 Woodside Development, LLC. The home has been designated by
the City as being “historically significant,” because the original portion was built around 1904,



Advisory Opinion – Meadows/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 18, 2013 Page 2 of 7
and is representative of the City’s development during its mining heyday. 1 According to the
materials submitted for this Opinion, there have been additions to the rear of the original 505
Woodside structure, while the front portion retains the original design. The home sits a few feet
above the street level, with a retaining wall along the front.

The City’s historic preservation ordinance governs replacement or renovation of structures
deemed to be historically significant. Any changes to historic structures requires specific
evaluation and approval under the City’s Historic District Design Review code (“HDDR”).
Decisions concerning historic structures made by the City may be appealed to the Historic
Preservation Board.

In March of 2009, Woodside applied for a permit to remodel the 505 Woodside structure. The
proposed remodeling included replacing much of the rear portion with new construction, and
removing about 5 feet from one end of the front portion. Because the proposed remodeling
included alteration of a historic structure, an application was subject to the City’s HDDR code.
Lawrence Meadows, who owns a neighboring property, objected to that proposal.

As the application was being processed, it was discovered that the owners mistakenly believed
that the 5-foot portion was a later addition to the home, and so could be removed without
compromising the historic nature of the structure. Mr. Meadows requested an Advisory Opinion
to evaluate, among other things, whether the application was complete and eligible to be
considered for approval. The Opinion concluded that due to the mistake concerning the 5-foot
portion of the home, the application was not complete, and could not be processed further. 2 The
property owners withdrew the application.

In the Summer of 2012, the owners submitted a new application, which entailed excavating a
space beneath the structure for a garage, with the home above the garage.3 This addition would
require reconstruction of at least a portion of the historic structure, as well as changes to the front
yard and the retaining wall, including removal of some vegetation from the front yard.4 The new
application was also subject to the HDDR. The City’s staff approved the application with some
conditions on February 4, 2013.

In addition, the City’s Land Management Code required a conditional use permit for construction
on lots where the grade was greater than 30% (a “Steep Slope Conditional Use Permit”). 5 The

1
  The home was designated as “historically significant” after a city-wide survey in 2008. The home is considered
historic because it dates from the “mature mining era” (i.e., 1894-1930), but it has no other historic or cultural
significance.
2
  The Opinion reasoned that the mistake made the application incomplete, because it concerned a significant aspect
of the application. The applicant could have been revised and resubmitted, but the owner could not claim vested
rights until the revised materials were submitted.
3
  The construction also involved removal and replacement of the more recent additions on the rear of the home.
Woodside’s application also proposed a “green roof” with vegetation on a roof portion connecting the older part of
the structure to the new additions. This green roof portion does not require modification to the historic portion of
the structure.
4
  Removal of vegetation, particularly mature trees, requires approval from the City.
5
  According to the Park City Land Management Code, any structure or access located on a slope greater than 30%
must obtain a conditional use permit. See PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CODE, § 15-2.2.6.

Advisory Opinion – Meadows/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 18, 2013 Page 3 of 7
City concluded that slopes that had been created artificially did not require conditional use
permits, even if they were greater than 30%. The City stated that it had evaluated the lot, and
determined that the “natural” grade of the lot was 21%, so a conditional use permit was not
necessary.

Mr. Meadows objected to the proposal, and submitted an appeal in which he not only disagreed
with the HDDR decision, but also with the City’s conclusion that Woodside did not need Steep
Slope Conditional Use Approval. On February 13, just before the deadline for an appeal to the
Historic Preservation Board, Mr. Meadows submitted a brief letter requesting an appeal of the
HDDR approval. The letter also states that he City should have required a Steep Slope
Conditional Use Approval. 6 On February 28, he submitted a “Supplemental Brief,” consisting of
a spiral bound book with roughly 300 pages. In this supplement, Mr. Meadows expanded his
objection to the City’s position on the Steep Slope Conditional Use Permit, and, for the first time,
raised specific objections to the decision made by the Historic Preservation Board.

The Supplemental Brief raised seven issues: 1) The Woodside Application was not complete; 2)
The City should have required a Steep Slope Conditional Use Permit; 3) New retaining walls
required a conditional use permit; 4) The Application did not show significant vegetation, and
there was no mitigation for lost vegetation; 5) There was no preservation plan for the historic
building; 6) The Board approved demolition of the structure without a proper permit; and 7) The
historic structure and roof forms were not preserved.

The City evaluated the Supplemental Brief and concluded that the two issues concerning
conditional use approvals fell under the jurisdiction of the Planning Commission, while the
remaining five objections should have been considered by the Historic Preservation Board.
Based on this, the City scheduled two hearings, the first before the Historic Preservation Board
on March 20, 2013, and the second before the Planning Commission, held on March 27. In the
meantime, Mr. Meadows requested this Advisory Opinion on March 19.

The Planning Commission upheld the City’s decision on the conditional use permits. At its
March 20 hearing, the Historic Preservation Board dismissed or rejected four of the five issues
before it, and continued the remaining issue to April 3. 7 On that date, the Board rejected the
final issue and the HDDR decision remained intact, with conditions imposed by the Board. Mr.
Meadows did not file an appeal of either decision. 8

In the materials submitted for this Opinion, Mr. Meadows complains that dividing the issues in
his appeal between the two bodies violates § 10-9a-701 of the Utah Code, which prohibits
“duplicate or successive appeals.” He cites a decision from the Third District Court involving
Park City and another land owner in a historic district. 9 In that case, the property owner was
denied HDDR approval, so he appealed to the Historic Preservation Board, which granted
6
  The letter also reserved the right “to supplement or amend” the appeal.
7
  The remaining issue was number seven, concerning the structure and roof form.
8
  Mr. Meadows could have appealed either decision to the Third District Court within 30 days, but did not choose to
do so.
9
  Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Order, Jeff Love v. Park City Municipal Corp., et al., Case No.
110500561 (Third District Court, July 20, 2012).

Advisory Opinion – Meadows/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 18, 2013 Page 4 of 7
approval. A group of neighboring property owners objected, and filed an appeal to the City’s
Board of Adjustment, which overturned the decision. The property then filed an appeal to the
District Court. The Court held that the City violated § 10-9a-701 because the landowner was
required to pursue successive appeals. Mr. Meadows argues that he also has been required to
pursue duplicate or successive appeals.

Woodside, through its attorney, disagrees with Mr. Meadows, and argues (as does the City) that
the divided appeal process does not violate § 10-9a-701. Moreover, Woodside argues that the
appeal to the Historic Preservation Board should not have been heard at all, because Mr.
Meadows did not file a proper appeal within ten days after the HDDR decision. Woodside points
to the appeal letter of February 13, 2013, which states that the appeal is based on the Steep Slope
Conditional Use Permit, and not on any factor that should have been heard by the Historic
Preservation Board. 10 Finally, Woodside notes that the issues for this Opinion are moot, because
Mr. Meadows did not appeal the decisions from either body. 11



                                                 Analysis
     I. Mr. Meadows was not Required to Pursue Duplicate Appeals.

The concurrent hearings before the City’s Planning Commission and Historic Preservation Board
did not constitute “duplicate or successive appeals” prohibited by § 10-9a-701(4)(d) of the Utah
Code. Different appeal authorities may consider different types of appeals. A city may
“designate one or more separate appeal authorities to hear distinct types of appeals of land use
authority decisions.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-701(4)(b). Thus, the same subsection that
prohibits duplicate or successive appeals allows cities to process appeals through more than one
appeal authority.

There are no decisions from a Utah appellate court explaining what constitues a duplicate or
successive appeal. “Duplicate” implies identical, an exact copy, or to “repeat, esp[ecially]
unnecessarily.”    Oxford Dictionary and Thesaurus (American Edition, 1996) p. 447.
Accordingly, a duplicate appeal would be one that is identical to another appeal, or repeats an
appellate process.

The City explains that it “bifurcated” Mr. Meadows’s requested appeal to the Planning
Commission and Historic Preservation Board, because the division was required by City
ordinance. “Any decision by either the Planning Director or Planning Staff regarding
Application of this [Land Management Code] to a Property may be appealed to the Planning
Commission. Appeals of decisions regarding the Design Guidelines for Historic Districts and

10
   Woodside does not dispute that the dispute concerning a Steep Slope Conditional Use Permit was properly
appealed and decided by the City’s Planning Commission.
11
   Mr. Meadows also argues that the decisions reached by the Planning Commission and the Historic Preservation
Board were erroneous. Woodside countered by arguing that the decisions were correct and supported by substantial
evidence.

Advisory Opinion – Meadows/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 18, 2013 Page 5 of 7
Historic Sites shall be reviewed by the Historic Preservation Board . . ..” PARK CITY LAND
MANAGEMENT CODE, § 15-1-18(A).

The questions about conditional use permits arose from the Land Management Code, and should
have been appealed to the Planning Commission. The other appeals raised by Mr. Meadows
concerned the design guidelines for a historic district, and so should have been considered by the
Historic Preservation Board. The Utah Code requires that local governments “conduct each
appeal . . . request as provided in local ordinance.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-706(1). Thus, the
City’s decision to have the different appeals reviewed by different appeal authorities was
appropriate and did not constitute a duplicate or successive appeal.

     II.         The Decision to Proceed With the Appeals and the Decisions of the Two
                 Administrative Bodies are Moot, Because No Appeal was Made to District Court

Because Mr. Meadows did not appeal the decisions from the Planning Commission or the
Historic Preservation Board, the decisions of the two bodies must stand, and this Opinion will
not disturb them. An Advisory Opinion is a means to review land use decisions and help resolve
disputes, but an Opinion is not a substitute for review by a district court, and does not stay any
land use decision, including any appellate rights. “[A] request for an advisory opinion under
Section 13-43-205 does not stay the progress of a land use application, or the effect of a land use
decision.” Id., § 13-43-206(13). Thus, the decisions made by the two administrative bodies
must stand.

Along the same lines, the City’s initial decision to proceed with an appeal of all the objections
raised by Mr. Meadows is also moot. Woodside argues that the appeal should have been
confined to the Steep Slope Conditional Use Permit only, because the original appeal letter filed
by Mr. Meadows only referred to that issue. The remaining issues were raised in the
Supplemental Brief, which was not filed until after the ten-day appeal period had passed.
However, the City decided to proceed with the appeal on all of the points raised by Mr.
Meadows, and the final decisions have been made. An analysis of whether the City should have
processed all of the objections raised by Mr. Meadows would not affect the final outcome of the
administrative appeals, so this Opinion will not address the matter. 12

                                                 Conclusion
The City’s decision to “bifurcate” the appeal sought by Mr. Meadows, dividing the issues
between the City’s Planning Commission and its Historic Preservation Board, was not a
“duplicate or successive” appeal prohibited by the Utah Code. In fact, local governments may
designate different bodies to consider different types of appellate questions, and there is no
reason why the different types of issues raised in one appeal cannot be heard concurrently by the
appropriate bodies. Moreover, the City was required to comply with its own ordinances
regarding how the appeal was processed, which meant that the issues had to be separated.

12
  See Salt Lake County v. Holliday Water Co., 2010 UT 45, ¶ 15 (An appeal is moot if the requested relief would
have no effect.) Furthermore, the City did not address its decision to process the appeal, so any analysis would be
incomplete. This does not mean that a similar issue could be reviewed in a future Advisory Opinion.

Advisory Opinion – Meadows/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 18, 2013 Page 6 of 7
The decisions of the Planning Commission and the Historic Preservation Board were not
appealed to the district court, and so will stand. An Advisory Opinion is not a substitute for the
established appeal procedure, and so this Opinion will not disturb the decisions that were made.
The objection to the City’s decision to process the appeal in the first place also will not be
disturbed, since any conclusion will not affect the final decisions that have already been made.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Meadows/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 18, 2013 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Marci Heil, City Recorder
              Park City
              445 Marsac Avenue
              Park City, UT 84060

On this ___________ Day of October, 2013, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
