                     Advisory Opinion #130
                                Parties: Harris J. Creveling and Park City
                                         Issued: September 27, 2013

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                        E: Entitlement to Application Approval (Vesting)
                        Other Topics (viii)

Vested rights arise only when an application conforms to local zoning ordinances.
The Vested Rights Rule does not grant substantive rights to a property owner, and
does not constitute “automatic” approval of an application. Any additional
approvals must be obtained in order to complete the development. If an appeal
involves a material fact that affects whether an application conforms to local
zoning ordinances, vested rights could not be claimed unless the outcome of the
appeal caused the application to conform.




                                                DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each
Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was
prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes
or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide
general guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be
considered legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current
laws.




                     The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                                  (801) 530-6391
                     Utah Department of Commerce                                                 1-877-882-4662
                     PO Box 146702                                                           Fax: (801) 530-6338
                     160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                     www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                     Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                         propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   GREG BELL
Lieutenant Governor



                                         ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:               Harris J. Creveling

      Local Government Entity:                     Park City

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:         Harris J. Creveling

      Type of Property:                            Residential Building Lot

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:               September 27, 2013

      Opinion Authored By:                         Elliot R. Lawrence
                                                   Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                   Issues
      May an applicant for development approval claim vested rights when issues material to the
      application are the subject of an appeal?

                                 Summary of Advisory Opinion
      In Utah, vested rights to land development are established when a complete and conforming
      application is submitted. If the application does not conform to the zoning ordinances in effect,
      no vested rights may be established. If a material fact that would impact the application’s
      conformity is the subject of an appeal or other legal action, vested rights in the development
      would still not be established unless the outcome of the appeal caused the application to become
      conforming. If vested rights are not established, development is subject to changes in zoning
      ordinances as if no application had been submitted.

      The Vested Rights Rule does not grant substantive rights to a developer, and does not constitute
      “automatic” authorization to complete development. Any additional approvals required by local
      ordinance must be obtained, such as conditional use permits, etc. A decision on whether an
      application conforms to local zoning ordinances is a land use decision that is subject to the same
      appeal provisions as any other land use decision. An applicant must exhaust all administrative
      remedies before seeking review in the district court.
                                                   Review
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Harris J. Creveling on April 2, 2013. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Janet Scott, Park City Recorder, at 445 Marsac
Ave., Park City, Utah 84060. The return information indicates that the City received the Request
on April 5, 2013.

                                                 Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Harris J. Creveling,
                 received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, April 3, 2013.
     2.          Response submitted on behalf of Park City by Polly Samuels McLean, Assistant City
                 Attorney, received April 29, 2013. Additional materials from the City were received
                 on April 30, 2013.
     3.          Reply submitted by Mr. Creveling, received July 1, 2013.

                                                 Background
Harris J. Creveling owns a lot located at 129 Main Street in Park City, which has been vacant for
the past several years. The Lot is typical for the older part of Park City, and the immediate area
dates back to the City’s mining past. It is a small property, consisting of only 1,200 square feet,
and is part of the City’s historical district. 1 The Lot has a steep slope, but other nearby properties
have small homes, despite similar slope issues.

For the past several years, Mr. Creveling (and previous owners) attempted to build a home on the
Lot. 2 Because of its size, slope issues, and location within the historic district, there are unique
challenges to designing a building for the Lot. The maximum “footprint” allowed on the lot is

1
  Properties located within a historic district are subject to additional regulation and any development requires
approval from the Historic Preservation Board.
2
  The material submitted for this Opinion indicates that a previous owner had sought approval for a home (or some
type of construction) on the Lot beginning in 2005. Mr. Creveling’s direct involvement began in 2007.

Advisory Opinion – Creveling/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 27, 2013 Page 2 of 9
565 square feet, and the maximum height is 27 feet. 3 In addition, conditional use approval is
required for construction on (or disturbance of) the slope. Even though any development on the
Lot would be new, it would still require review under the Historic District Guidelines. The City
indicated that it may consider modern materials for new construction, as long as the design was
consistent with other historic homes in the area.

In July of 2007, the City’s Board of Adjustment granted variances reducing the required setbacks
on the front, rear, and south side. 4 In November of 2007, Mr. Creveling submitted an application
for Historic District Design Review. On December 7, 2007, the City informed Mr. Creveling
that his application did not satisfy the City’s requirements, because 1) the proposed building
footprint was too large (619 s.f. rather than 565), 2) the proposed building height exceeded the
allowed maximum of 27 feet, and 3) the design for the home’s front steps was higher than what
was allowed under the City’s Land Management Code. 5

Mr. Creveling states that the City’s Board of Adjustment scheduled a hearing or discussion
pertaining to his property on December 18, 2007, before he requested a variance on the building
footprint and the special exception to the staircase height. Evidently, that Board meeting was to
formally adopt the findings from the board’s July 2007 meeting which granted the setback
variances. Since the Board did not have a quorum at its December meeting, the matter was
postponed to January.

On January 15, 2008, the Board met and approved the findings from the July 2007 meeting. Mr.
Creveling was present at that meeting, and objected to the final language. Specifically, he argued
that the variances granted the previous July included approval of an enlarged building footprint.
Despite this objection, the Board approved the findings which granted a variance of the setbacks
only. Mr. Creveling did not appeal this action.

On January 16, 2008, Mr. Creveling applied for a variance to enlarge the building footprint. He
also requested a special exception to the stairway height regulations, to allow his proposed
stairway. 6 On March 18, the City’s Board of Adjustment denied both requests. Mr. Creveling
appealed the denials to the Third District Court. 7

In August of 2011, the District Court issued a written decision upholding the Board of
Adjustment’s denial of the building footprint variance. However, the Court overturned the denial
of the special exception to the staircase height requirement, meaning Mr. Creveling could



3
  The building “footprint” is defined as the total area of the foundation of the structure, or the furthest extending
wall, not including stairs, patios, or decks. See PARK CITY LAND MANAGEMENT CODE, § 15-15-1.31.
4
  That decision was not appealed and still stands as of the date of this Opinion.
5
  The City also noted that garbage storage was not allowed in a front-yard setback.
6
  On December 28, 2007 Mr. Creveling applied for a conditional use permit to construct on a slope greater than
30%. This application was separate from the variance and special exception applications he submitted. No
additional information pertaining to that application was submitted for this Opinion.
7
  Two other plaintiffs were listed on the appeal: Donald Barber and Cindy Barber. Evidently, they are not part of
this requested Opinion.

Advisory Opinion – Creveling/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 27, 2013 Page 3 of 9
construct the staircase to the greater height. 8 The decision from the Third District Court was not
appealed.

On September 27, 2011, just over thirty days from the district court’s decision, the City informed
Mr. Creveling that his application from December of 2007 was denied, due to lack of compliance
with the City’s Land Management Code. The City considered the application closed. The letter
to Mr. Creveling noted that the setback variances and the staircase height exception were still in
effect, and could be used in a new application for a building on the lot.

After meeting with Mr. Creveling in April of 2012, the City’s Senior Planner explained that the
City closed the 2007 application because the proposed home exceeded the allowable building
footprint, and because of other issues that were left unresolved; namely, conditional use approval
to build on a steep slope, and historic district design review. The City also explained that the
“Development of Steep Slopes” applicable to his Lot had been amended in 2009. The changes
adopted in 2009 may have eliminated the need for conditional use approval, depending on the
specific measurements of the Lot. 9

Mr. Creveling objects to the denial of his 2007 application, and claims that he has the vested
right to approval based on that application. The City explains that the 2007 application did not
conform to the requirements of the City’s Land Management Code, and so was not eligible to
receive vested status. The City also argues that Mr. Creveling did not take the required steps to
appeal the City’s decision to deny the application, and so an appeal is no longer possible.

                                                   Analysis
     I. An Application That is Not Complete and Conforming Cannot Create Vested
        Development Rights.

The right to develop under Utah’s Vested Rights Rule is established by a complete application
that conforms to local zoning ordinances. Neither an incomplete application, nor one which does
not conform to zoning ordinances create vested development rights. The Vested Rights Rule
provides that development may proceed according to the ordinances in place when a complete
and conforming application is submitted. An appeal involving a material fact that impacts
whether or not an application is conforming does not grant vested rights, unless the outcome of
the appeal causes the application to conform to zoning ordinances.

           A. Utah’s Vested Rights Rule

Utah’s Vested Rights Rule provides that a developer “is entitled to approval of a land use
application if the application conforms to the requirements of the municipality’s land use maps,

8
  The Third District Court rejected the argument that earlier approval of the variances reducing the setbacks also
included approval of a larger footprint. The building footprint was not part of the earlier variance action, and the
court also noted that a smaller building could take advantage of the reduced setbacks.
9
  The City mentioned this in a letter dated April 10, 2012, but did not commit to eliminating the need for a
conditional use permit. In February of 2013, the City again explained why it had closed Mr. Creveling’s application,
and invited him to submit a new application.

Advisory Opinion – Creveling/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 27, 2013 Page 4 of 9
zoning map, and applicable land use ordinance in effect when a complete application is
submitted and all fees have been paid . . ..” UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(1)(a). The statute is a
codification of the language used by the Utah Supreme Court in Western Land Equities v. City of
Logan, 617 P.2d 388 (Utah 1980). The Vested Rights Rule essentially means that a local
government may not change ordinances after a land use application is submitted, except in
limited circumstances. 10 “A property owner should be able to plan for developing his property in
a manner permitted by existing zoning regulations with some degree of assurance that the basic
ground rules will not be changed in midstream.” Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 396.

In order to claim the vested right to proceed with development, then, the property owner must
show that the application conforms to the applicable land use ordinances. If the application does
not conform, vested development rights cannot be claimed. “Allowing persons to obtain vested
rights under a zoning ordinance merely by filing preliminary and incomplete papers would defeat
the very purpose of zoning regulations.” Scherbel v. Salt Lake City, 758 P.2d 897, 901 (Utah Ct.
App. 1988). 11

In the case presented for this Opinion, Mr. Creveling’s 2007 application did not conform to the
City’s zoning ordinances, because 1) the building footprint was too large; 2) the building was too
high, and 3) the staircase elevation was also too high. Through an appeal to the Third District
Court, Mr. Creveling obtained a special exception that allowed a higher staircase, but the other
two problems remained. Since the application still did not conform, no vested rights were
created.

     B. The Vested Rights Rule Does Not Create Property Rights or an Entitlement to Develop.

The Vested Rights Rule provides that a development application will be processed according to
the zoning ordinances in place when the application is submitted, except in certain
circumstances. 12 The Utah Supreme Court stated that the Vested Rights Rule is based on
preventing inequity because a developer relies upon the language of a zoning ordinance, and
does not create property or other substantive rights. 13 The Rule can only guarantee that the
zoning ordinance will not be changed after a compliant application is submitted. Western Land
Equities, 617 P.2d at 396.

This is illustrated by considering the factual situation that led to the Western Land Equities
decision. The developer in that case had submitted an application for a residential subdivision on
property that was zoned residential. After lengthy deliberations, the city’s planning commission
10
    A local government may alter its ordinances, and impact a pending application, if there a “compelling,
countervailing public interest” would be jeopardized if the application were approved; or, if proceedings to amend
the ordinance had already begun when the application was submitted. UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(i) and
(ii).
11
   In Scherbel, the application for development did not conform to the city’s zoning ordinance. The Utah Court of
Appeals therefore concluded that the applicant could not claim vested rights. Scherbel, 758 P.2d at 900-01.
12
   See note 10, supra.
13
    In a later case, the Court explained that Western Land Equities “recognized the developer’s entitlement to
approval based on the developer’s detrimental reliance on the original zoning ordinance, not because the developer
was being deprived of a fundamental constitutional right.” Patterson v. American Fork City, 2003 UT 7, ¶27, 67
P.3d 466, 474 (citations omitted).

Advisory Opinion – Creveling/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 27, 2013 Page 5 of 9
denied the application. While the developer pursued the appeal that would eventually be heard
by the Utah Supreme Court, the city changed the zoning designation for the property to
manufacturing, thus prohibiting residential development. The Court reversed the city’s original
denial, and in doing so created Utah’s Vested Rights Rule. The rule was necessary to prevent
inequity if a property owner relied upon the language of a zoning ordinance.

The Vested Rights Rule prevents retroactive changes to zoning ordinances that block legitimate
applications. Thus, an application that conforms to local zoning ordinances is entitled to approval
based on the ordinances in place when the application was submitted. As is often the case,
multiple approvals are sometimes required in order for a development to receive final
authorization. Mr. Creveling’s application, for example, would have required a conditional use
permit (for construction on a steep slope) and approval by the Historic Preservation Board.
Neither of these additional approvals would have been guaranteed, even if Mr. Creveling’s
previous application was complete and compliant.

     C. The Appeal Did Not Create Vested Rights in the 2007 Ordinances.

Mr. Creveling argues that after the decision from the Third District Court, he should have been
able to proceed with his original application, presumably modifying it so that it would conform
to the zoning requirements in effect in 2007. While the appeal was pending, the City amended
its zoning ordinances. The new language evidently impacts development on Mr. Creveling’s
Lot. 14 However, since he had no vested rights stemming from the application, he cannot claim
the right to refer back to the 2007 ordinances. If the outcome of the appeal had made the 2007
application conforming, then Mr. Creveling may have claimed vested rights in the 2007
ordinances. 15

An appeal involving material issues that would affect an application’s conformity does not create
vested rights in and of itself. Such an appeal could suspend action on an application, and require
that it be held until the appeal was resolved. However, the appeal itself would not create vested
rights, unless the final result caused the application to conform with the ordinances in effect
when the application was submitted. Then–and only then–could the applicant claim vested rights
in the ordinances which were in effect when the application was submitted. If the appeal does
not cause the application to be conforming, there are no vested rights, and the applicant cannot
refer back to the prior language of the ordinances. Vested rights are not created because of a
dispute, but by conformity with existing ordinances.




14
   It is not clear what the ordinance changes were, or how they would affect development of the Lot. The City noted
that one change affects how the developable area of a lot with a steep slope is measured, which may impact Mr.
Creveling’s application.
15
   For example, if the Court had ruled in Mr. Creveling’s favor, and held that the City had granted a variance
enlarging the footprint, then the application would have conformed (at least in that respect) and could possibly have
created vested rights based on the 2007 ordinances. The building height issue was apparently not addressed through
a variance application.

Advisory Opinion – Creveling/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 27, 2013 Page 6 of 9
In this case, Mr. Creveling appealed the City’s action, and the City held the application for nearly
four years while the appeal was pending. 16 The issues raised in the appeal materially impacted
whether or not the application conformed to the City’s zoning ordinances. After the decision
from the Third District Court, Mr. Creveling’s application still did not conform to the City’s
zoning ordinances, so the City informed him that the application was denied. 17 Mr. Creveling
had no vested right to develop according to the 2007 ordinances, because his application never
fully conformed to those ordinances. Essentially, he is in the same position he would have been
if he had waited four years to submit his application. He has no basis to claim that the 2007
ordinance applies instead of any subsequent zoning amendments. 18

     D. Because no Substantive or Property Rights Are Created by the Vested Rights Rule,
        Appeals of Application Denials Must Be Filed Within the Established Time Frame.

Because no substantive or property rights exist, the City’s action closing the application should
be subject to the same appeal provisions as any other land use decision. After the Third District
Court’s decision, which upheld the decision on the building footprint but granted the stair height
exemption, the City informed Mr. Creveling that it was closing the application. According to the
City, it also informed Mr. Creveling that he could appeal that action, by filing an appeal no later
than ten days after the action was taken. 19 The ten-day appeal period expired during the first half
of October, 2011. 20

The Utah Code provides for a period of not less than ten days to file an administrative appeal for
most land-use decisions. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-704. The City adopted a ten day appeal
period. See PARK CITY LAND MANAGEMENT CODE, § 15-15-101. Moreover, an appellant must
exhaust all administrative remedies in order to pursue an appeal. UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-
801(1). 21 Since the City’s action closing Mr. Creveling’s application was a land use decision, it
is subject to the same appeal provisions as any other land use decision, meaning that he had ten
days to file an appeal.

Mr. Creveling is in the same position as the plaintiffs in Holladay Towne Center, LLC v. Holladay
City. 22 In that case, a developer sought approval for a commercial development, but the city

16
   There does not appear to be any reason why the application could have been closed while the appeal was pending.
Had the outcome been in Mr. Creveling’s favor, the application could have been revived and processed according to
the ordinances in place in 2007.
17
   The City waited until the 30-day period to appeal had passed. The district court’s decision was not appealed, so it
remains in effect for the property.
18
   He is also in the same position he would have been if he had done nothing after the application was submitted in
2007. Vested rights arise when an application conforms, not simply because it has been filed. If nothing else had
happened (and the City had allowed the application to remain open), no vested rights would have been created. The
application would have to conform to the amended zoning ordinances.
19
   Mr. Creveling states that he was not informed that an appeal had to be filed within 10 days, until well after the 10-
day period had passed.
20
   It is not clear whether the time began to run from the date of the action, or the date when Mr. Creveling was
notified of the action. Other than requesting this Opinon, Mr. Creveling apparently did not file an appeal.
21
   This requirement means that administrative appeals must be heard before an action may be reviewed by a district
court.
22
   2008 UT App 301, 192 P.3d 302.

Advisory Opinion – Creveling/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 27, 2013 Page 7 of 9
determined that the application did not conform to the zoning ordinances in place. Rather than
pursue an administrative appeal, the developer waited and then filed suit in district court.
Holladay Towne Center, 2008 UT App 301, ¶¶1-4, 192 P.3d at 303-04. The Utah Court of
Appeals held that the developer lost its right to appeal, because it failed to exhaust its
administrative remedies. Id., 2008 UT App 301, ¶6, 192 P.3d at 304

             [I]nstead of following the statutorily mandated procedures for appealing the
             departmental denial, which would have allowed [the developer] the opportunity to
             refute the city’s determination and demonstrate the validity of its application, it
             “leap-frogged over the entire administrative process,” and circumvented the city’s
             “opportunity to correct any error it may have made” . . ..

Id., 2008 UT App 301, ¶8, 192 P.3d at 305 (citations omitted). Like the developer in Holladay
Towne Center, Mr. Creveling can no longer pursue an appeal of the City’s action. However, he
may submit a new application and seek approval for a home on his Lot.

       II.       The Variances and Special Exception Remain in Effect on the Property

The City has acknowledged that the setback variances and the stairway height special exception
remain in effect on the Lot, and that Mr. Creveling may rely upon those in a new application.
The Utah Code provides that variances “run with the land,” meaning that once a variance is
approved, it remains in effect, even if the property is sold. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-
702(4). 23 According to the City the special exception would also run with the land. Thus, Mr.
Creveling may therefore rely upon the setback variance and the staircase height exception when
planning future development. The City has indicated that residential development is still allowed
on the Lot at 129 Main Street, and that it would consider a new application that conforms to its
zoning ordinances.

                                                    Conclusion
The property owner could not claim the vested right to proceed with development, because the
application did not conform to the City’s zoning ordinances in effect when the application was
submitted. Unless vested rights are established, development of the property is subject to
ordinance changes, as if no application had been submitted. Vested rights arise because an
application is complete and conforming. If the application does not conform to the applicable
zoning ordinances, the applicant cannot claim the right to develop according to those ordinances.

The Vested Rights Rule does not create any substantive rights, but merely a guarantee that
zoning ordinances cannot be changed to block development that was allowed when an
application was submitted. The Vested Rights Rule does not entitle an applicant to “automatic”
development authorization if there are additional proceedings required for final approval.

If there is an appeal or other unresolved legal action that would affect whether or not the
application conforms to local zoning ordinances, no vested rights are created unless the outcome

23
     A variance may be terminated by the property owner, or modified if necessary.

Advisory Opinion – Creveling/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 27, 2013 Page 8 of 9
of the appeal results in the application’s conformity. If the application becomes conforming due
to the appeal or other legal action, the applicant may then claim vested rights, and the
development approval may proceed according to the ordinances in effect when the application
was submitted. At the discretion of the local government, an application may be held while an
appeal is pending, and a final decision made after resolution of the appeal.

Because a determination of whether an application conforms to a zoning ordinance is a land use
decision, the appeal provisions applicable to any land use decision apply. An applicant must
comply with local appeal provisions, and must exhaust all administrative remedies before review
may be sought in a district court.

Variances run with the land, and the City’s special exceptions also run with the land. Therefore
the variances and special exception granted remain in effect, and Mr. Creveling may rely upon
them in future applications.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Creveling/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 27, 2013 Page 9 of 9
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Janet M. Scott, City Recorder
              Park City
              445 Marsac Avenue
              Park City, UT 84060

On this ___________ Day of September, 2013, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
