                     Advisory Opinion #197
                                 Parties: Andrea Franklin; Morgan County
                                             Issued: May 25, 2018

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                                               Impact Fees Act

The County soccer facility in Morgan City is not currently identified in the County’s
IFFP. Consequently, the County may not spend collected park impact fees on the
facility unless it amends its IFFP to include that facility.

The County may spend impact fees on any facilities it selects within its service
area, and the service area may include the entire county. Nevertheless, as County
officials decide which facilities to identify and spend park impact fees on in its
IFFP, they need to conscientiously ensure the fees spent on facilities
demonstrably provide a benefit to the development that paid the fees.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI    BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director   Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION
        Advisory Opinion Requested By:              Andrea Franklin

        Local Government Entity:                    Morgan County

        Type of Property:                           Public Recreational

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:              June 4, 2018

        Opinion Authored By:                        Jordan S. Cullimore
                                                    Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                    ISSUES
        Does the Morgan County Park Impact Fee Facilities Plan and Impact Fee Analysis allow the
        County to spend $100,000 of impact fee money on a public soccer facility in Morgan City?

        Does the Plan comply with legal requirements in the Utah Impact Fees Act?

                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        The County soccer facility in Morgan City is not currently identified in the County’s IFFP.
        Consequently, the County may not spend collected park impact fees on the facility unless it
        amends its IFFP to include that facility.

        The County may spend impact fees on any facilities it selects within its service area, and the
        service area may include the entire county. Nevertheless, as County officials decide which
        facilities to identify and spend park impact fees on in its IFFP, they need to conscientiously
        ensure the fees spent on facilities demonstrably provide a benefit to the development that paid
        the fees.

                                                   REVIEW
        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
        administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Andrea Franklin on January 17, 2018. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Jann L. Farris, Attorney for Morgan County, at
48 Young Street, Morgan, Utah.

                                                  EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

      1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Andrea Franklin on January 17, 2018.
      2. Reply Memorandum prepared by Lewis Young Robertson & Burningham, submitted by
         Jann L. Farris, Attorney for Morgan County, received February 27, 2018.
      3. Morgan County Park Impact Fee Facilities Plan and Impact Fee Analysis, date November
         9, 2016.

                                               BACKGROUND
According to Ms. Franklin’s Advisory Opinion Request, the Morgan County Council voted in
October 2017 to spend $100,000 of collected impact fees to construct a soccer facility on
property Morgan County (the County) owns in the City of Morgan. This decision concerned Ms.
Franklin because, according to her understanding, the County collected most of the $100,000 in
impact fee money from development that had occurred in Mountain Green1, where Ms. Franklin
lives. She feels that since the fees were collected largely from development in Mountain Green,
the money should be spent on providing services in the Mountain Green area to Mountain Green
residents, where very few public and park facilities currently exist to serve the growing
community.

Ms. Franklin reviewed the County’s Park Impact Fee Facilities Plan and Impact Fee Analysis
(the IFFP and IFA) and concluded that the County Council’s decision to spend $100,000 on a
park facility in Morgan City violates the IFFP and IFA, and applicable law. She then submitted a
Request for Advisory Opinion on the question to this Office.

                                                   ANALYSIS
Under Utah law, an impact fee is “a payment of money imposed upon new development…as a
condition of development approval to mitigate the impact of the new development on public
infrastructure.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(8)(a). An impact fee is one method a local government
may use to fund certain types of facilities and infrastructure to serve new growth within the

1
    Mountain Green is a census-designated place within Morgan County.
Advisory Opinion – Andrea Franklin
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 4, 2018      Page 2 of 7
community. The Utah Impact Fees Act (the Act), UTAH CODE CHAPTER 11-36a, outlines the rules
a local government must follow to calculate, enact, collect, and spend impact fees.

Prior to imposing an impact fee, a local government must prepare an Impact Fee Facilities Plan
(IFFP) to determine the public facilities necessary to serve new growth. See UTAH CODE § 11-
36a-301(1). The local government must also prepare an Impact Fee Analysis (IFA) for each
category of impact fee it establishes. See UTAH CODE § 11-36a-303. The IFA identifies the
anticipated impacts of new growth, and also identifies how each impact fee is calculated. Here,
the Park Impact Fee Facilities Plan and Impact Fee Analysis were prepared as a single document,
which we will refer to as “the IFFP and IFA”, dated November 9, 2016.

Ms. Franklin argues that, while she believes the analysis correctly calculated the park impact fee,
the IFFP and IFA do not contain sufficient guidance about how to spend the collected fees.
Specifically, she argues that the IFFP and IFA lack three critical components the Impact Fees Act
requires: (1) a future capital facilities analysis, (2) a financing strategy listing future projects and
showing how impact fees and other financial strategies will be used to implement the plan, and
(3) a proportionate share analysis showing how the impacts of new development relate to the
plan.

Morgan County contends that each of these components is present in the Parks IFFP and IFA,
and that the plan legally allows the County to spend the $100,000 on the soccer facility in
Morgan.

I.         Compliance with the Utah Impact Fees Act

           A.          Future Capital Facilities Analysis

The Impact Fees Act, in part, requires an IFFP to:

           1. Identify the community’s existing level of service2;
           2. Establish a proposed level of service;
           3. Identify excess capacity to accommodate future growth at the proposed level of
              service;
           4. Identify demands new development places on existing public facilities at the
              proposed level of service; and
           5. Identify the means through which the local government will meet the growth
              demands.

See UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302(1)(a).

This required analysis identifies facilities the local government presently provides to the
community, and forecasts facilities the local government must add to maintain the existing level
of service for present and future residents of the community. Ms. Franklin contends that this

2
  The Act defines “level of service” as the “performance standard or unit of demand for each capital component of a
public facility within a service area.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(11). In the County’s IFFP and IFA, the demand unit
is population. Morgan County Park Impact Fee Facilities Plan and Impact Fee Analysis, November 9, 2016, p. 7.
Advisory Opinion – Andrea Franklin
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 4, 2018      Page 3 of 7
analysis must include a “list of capital projects necessary to serve new growth….” Andrea
Franklin Letter to County Council, dated November 15, 2017. Such a list is relevant because the
Act further provides that the local government may only spend impact fees on facilities, “(a)
identified in the impact fee facilities plan; and (b) for the specific public facility type for which
the fee was collected.” UTAH CODE 11-36a-602(1)(a)-(b).

The County concedes that its approach here is generalized and vague, but it also contends that
the approach nonetheless meets the Act’s requirements. To support its position, the County refers
to a prior Opinion issued by this Office in which we concluded that “a vague plan to spend
[impact fees] as the need and opportunities arise,” while not preferable, is nonetheless sufficient
to satisfy the Act. Table 6.1 on page 13 of the County’s IFFP and IFA lists “Regional Parks” and
“Community Neighborhood Parks” as facilities needed to maintain the County’s level of service.
The analysis further states that:

           Future planning for park land is an ongoing process, based on the changes in
           population and community preference. The County will purchase and improve
           parks to maintain the level of service defined in [the IFFP and IFA]. … Actual
           future improvements will be determined as development occurs, and the
           opportunity to acquire and improve park land arises.

The County’s plan does not identify specific facilities for which impact fees will be collected and
spent. Since UTAH CODE 11-36a-602(1)(a) only allows a local government to spend impact fees
on a facility “identified in the impact fee facilities plan” (emphasis added), we conclude, upon
further reflection and consideration, that the plain language3 of the act requires the IFFP to
specifically identify facilities the local government will spend impact fees on. A vague plan that
doesn’t identify specific facilities is therefore legally insufficient and does not satisfy the Act’s
requirements.

Since the soccer facility for which the County Council would like to spend impact fees is not
identified in the County’s IFFP, the County may not presently spend impact fee money on that
facility. This does not preclude the County from amending its IFFP to include the soccer facility.
It may do so simply by following the notice and amendment procedures outlined in the Act. If,
however, the County does not choose to amend its IFFP to include the soccer facility, it may not
spend collected impact fees on that facility.

           B.          Financing Strategy

Ms. Franklin further argues that the County’s IFFP and IFA lacks a legally sufficient financing
strategy. Regarding financing considerations, the Act requires the IFFP to “consider all revenue
sources to finance the impacts on system improvements, including: (a) grants; (b) bonds; (c)
interfund loans; (d) impact fees; and (e) anticipated or accepted dedications of system
improvements.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302(2). Moreover, the Act requires the IFFP to establish


3
  Statutory interpretation begins with an analysis of the plain language of the provision. Carrier 2004 UT 98 ¶ 30,
104 P.3d 1208. “When the plain meaning of the statute can be discerned from its language, no other interpretive
tools are needed.” Selman v. Box Elder County, 2011 UT 18, ¶ 18, 251 P.3d 804.
Advisory Opinion – Andrea Franklin
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 4, 2018      Page 4 of 7
that “impact fees are necessary to maintain a proposed level of service that complies with [the
Act],” before imposing impact fees on development. UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302(3).

The County’s IFFP and IFA satisfy these requirements. On page 13 and 14 of the document, the
analysis adequately considers all appropriate revenue sources. It establishes the need to use
impact fees specifically on page 15, and generally throughout. Accordingly, the IFFP and IFA
satisfy the Act’s financing strategy requirements.

           C.          Proportionate Share Analysis

Finally, Ms. Franklin asserts that the County’s IFFP and IFA does not contain a required
proportionate share analysis showing how the impacts of new development are related to the plan
for new development. The Act requires an IFA to “estimate the proportionate share of: (i) the cost
for existing capacity that will be recouped; and (ii) the costs of impacts on system improvements
that are reasonably related to the new development activity.” UTAH CODE 11-36a-304(d). The Act
indicates that an IFA fulfills this requirement by considering several factors that have come to be
known as the “Banberry factors”. See UTAH CODE § 11-36a-304(2). These factors were first
articulated in the Utah Supreme Court case, Banberry Development Corporation v. South Jordan
City, 631 P..2d 899, 903 (Utah 1981).

The Utah legislature codified these factors in the Act as follows:

           (2) In analyzing whether or not the proportionate share of the costs of public
           facilities are reasonably related to the new development activity, the local
           [government]…shall identify, if applicable:

                 (a) the cost of each existing public facility that has excess capacity to serve
                     the anticipated development resulting from the new development activity;
                 (b) the cost of system improvements for each public facility;
                 (c) other than impact fees, the manner of financing for each public facility,
                     such as user charges, special assessments, bonded indebtedness, general
                     taxes, or federal grants;
                 (d) the relative extent to which development activity will contribute to
                     financing the excess capacity of and system improvements for each
                     existing public facility, by such means as user charges, special
                     assessments, or payment from the proceeds of general taxes;
                 (e) the relative extent to which development activity will contribute to the
                     cost of existing public facilities and system improvements in the future;
                 (f) the extent to which the development activity is entitled to a credit against
                     impact fees because the development activity will dedicate system
                     improvements or public facilities that will offset the demand for system
                     improvements, inside or outside the proposed development;
                 (g) extraordinary costs, if any, in servicing the newly developed properties;
                     and
                 (h) the time-price differential inherent in fair comparisons of amounts paid at
                     different times.

Advisory Opinion – Andrea Franklin
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 4, 2018      Page 5 of 7
UTAH CODE § 11-36a-304(2)(a)-(h). See also Banberry, 631 P.2d at 904.

While the County’s IFFP and IFA does not include a dedicated section outlining the
proportionate share analysis, the document nonetheless appropriately and adequately includes the
analysis of applicable factors throughout the document.4 Consequently, the IFFP and IFA satisfy
the Act’s proportionate share analysis requirements.

II.        The “Demonstrable Benefit” Principle

The Act requires a local government to establish “service areas” in which impact fees may be
collected and spent. See UTAH CODE 11-36a-402. A local government may establish a single
service area that covers the entire jurisdiction, or it may create multiple service areas that serve
different parts of the community. UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(19)(b). Here, the County’s IFFP and
IFA establish the park impact fee service area to include the entire County. The Act permits this.
See UTAH CODE 11-36a-402(1)(a); see also UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(19). With a County-wide
service area, the County may spend collected impact fees, regardless of the source, on park
facilities throughout the County as long as the facility is appropriately identified in the IFFP and
IFA.

Ultimately, Ms. Franklin’s would like to see the County use impact fees to measurably benefit
the development that paid the park impact fees. This concern is reasonable and appropriate. The
Utah Supreme Court touched on this concern in the Banberry opinion previously referenced. In
Banberry, the court explained that a local government, when assessing and spending impact
fees5, must comply with a “constitutional standard of reasonableness.” See Banberry, 631 P.2d at
902. The local government must take into account certain considerations for a fee to be
reasonable.

One of those considerations involves the “demonstrable benefit” principle. Banberry, 631 P.2d at
905. In explaining this principle, the court in Banberry drew a distinction between “centralized
facilities”, such as sewer treatment facilities, that benefit an entire community uniformly, and
“dispersed resources”, such as park facilities, that may measurably benefit users differently in
different parts of the community due to proximity or other factors. Regarding fees to construct
dispersed resources, the court stated that, while the “benefits derived from the [fees] need not
accrue solely to the [development that paid the fees],” the benefits derived from the fees “must
be of ‘demonstrable benefit’ to [that development].” Id. (emphasis added).

The court did not specifically explain how to accomplish this, and County officials possess broad
discretion to make decisions they think will best serve the public interest. As the County now
considers whether to identify the proposed soccer facility as a facility for which it may spend
impact fees in its IFFP, it should keep this principle in mind and be careful to ensure that fees

4
  See, for example the discussion of excess capacity on page 3, consideration of revenue sources on pages 13-14,
and consideration of developer credits, extraordinary costs, and time-price differential on page 17.
5
  The Banberry opinion refers to “exactions”. An impact fee is a form of development exaction. “Exactions are
conditions imposed by government entities on developers for the issuance of a building permit or subdivision plat
approval.” B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County (“BAM I”), 2006 UT 2, ¶ 34, 128 P.3d 1161, 1169.
Advisory Opinion – Andrea Franklin
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 4, 2018      Page 6 of 7
assessed on development to construct park facilities are used to construct facilities that
“demonstrably benefit” the development that paid the fees.6

                                               CONCLUSION
The soccer facility the County would like to spend impact fees on is not currently identified in
the County’s IFFP. Consequently, the County may not spend collected park impact fees on the
facility unless it formally amends its IFFP to include that facility.

As County officials decide which facilities to identify and spend park impact fees on in in its
IFFP, they need to conscientiously ensure the fees are spent on facilities that demonstrably and
measurably benefits development that paid the fees.



Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




6
 To be clear, we are not drawing any conclusions about whether the proposed soccer facility in Morgan does or does
not demonstrably and proportionately benefit development that paid the fees.
Advisory Opinion – Andrea Franklin
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 4, 2018      Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                      Jann L. Farris, Attorney
                      Morgan County
                      48 Young Street
                      Morgan, UT, 84050

On this ___________ Day of _______, 2018, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
