                     Advisory Opinion #171
                                             Parties: John Davis
                                           Issued: August 17, 2016


                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                                Compliance with Land Use Ordinances



Utah law requires strict compliance with notice ordinances. The failure to strictly
comply with notice requirements renders the action taken void. Accordingly, since
Salt Lake City held a statutorily required public hearing in violation of the City's 45
day notice ordinance, a final decision on the application will be void without a new
public hearing before the Planning Commission.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI     BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director    Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:               John Davis

        Local Government Entity:                     Salt Lake City

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:             Trolley Square Ventures, LLC

        Type of Property:                            Commercial Property

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:               August 17, 2016

        Opinion Authored By:                         Brent N. Bateman
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                      ISSUE
        Did Salt Lake City fail to provide adequate notice of a public hearing?




                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        Salt Lake City’s land use ordinance requires a 45 day notice to a recognized community
        organization before it may hold a public hearing. The plain language of the ordinance does not
        support the interpretation that the 45 day requirement is unnecessary when another recognized
        community organization is within 600 feet of the project.

        Utah law requires strict compliance with notice ordinances. The failure to strictly comply with
        notice requirements renders the action taken void. Accordingly, since the City held a statutorily
        required public hearing at the planning commission in violation of the City’s 45 day notice
        ordinance, a final decision on the application will be void without a new public hearing before
        the Planning Commission.
                                               REVIEW
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from John Davis on March 22, 2016. A copy
of that request was sent via certified mail to Cindi Mansell, Salt Lake City Recorder, 451 South
State Street, RM 415, Salt Lake City, Utah.


                                              EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by John Davis on March 22, 2016, with
        attachments.
     2. Letter submitted by Paul C. Nielson, Attorney for Salt Lake City, received April 19, 2016,
        with attachments.
     3. Letter submitted by John P. Davis, received May 2, 2016, and attachments.
     4. Letter submitted by Douglas F. White, Attorney for Trolley Square Ventures, LLC.
        Received on May 5, 2016.
     5. Letter submitted by John P Davis, received on May 6, 2016.



                                            BACKGROUND
Within Salt Lake City, several neighborhoods have organized into Recognized Community
Organizations. These organizations, officially recognized by Salt Lake City ordinance, receive
notice and the opportunity to provide input to the City on matters of local interest. On some land
use matters, the City must provide these organizations with notice in accordance with Salt Lake
City Ordinance 2.60.050(C):

           The recognized community organization chair(s) have forty five (45) days to
           provide comments, from the date the notice was sent. A public hearing will not be
           held, nor will a final decision be made about the project within the forty five (45)
           day period. Where a project is within six hundred feet (600') of the boundaries of
Advisory Opinion – John Davis
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 17, 2016 Page 2 of 6
           another recognized community organization's district, when more than one
           recognized organization has requested a presentation of the matter, when the
           subject property is located west of 2200 West, or when the project is a text
           amendment to the city code, the city will schedule the item for an open house and
           notify the public, including those recognized community organizations who may
           be affected by the project or who have specifically requested notification of the
           public open house.

This ordinance adds two processes that exceed the notice requirements of the state law; a 45 day
notice prior to a public hearing or making a final decision, and under certain specific
circumstances, an open house. On March 9, 2016, the Salt Lake City Planning Commission held
a public hearing to consider the petition by Trolley Square Ventures, LLC to amend the zoning
designation of certain parcels in the Trolley Square area. The parcels are all within the Central
City Neighborhood Council (“CCNC”) district. The parcels are also within 600 feet of the East
Central Community Council district, another Recognized Community Organization. At the
public hearing, several persons, including the chair of the CCNC, expressed concerns that the
City had failed to provide adequate notice of the public hearing. Despite the expressed concerns,
the SLC Planning Commission recommended approval of the zone change to the City Council.

Soon afterward, John Davis, a nearby affected property owner, requested this Advisory Opinion.
According to Mr. Davis, the earliest that the Chair of the CCNC received notice was February
4th, 2016. This email notice was sent only 35 days prior to the Planning Commission’s public
hearing. Therefore, Mr. Davis asserts that the City violated the mandatory provisions of Salt
Lake City ordinance 2.60.050(C) by failing to notify the applicable community organization at
least forty-five days in advance of the public hearing. Mr. Davis argues that this violation of the
plain language of the ordinance renders the Planning Commission’s recommendation void.

Salt Lake City interprets its notice ordinance differently. The City feels that the ordinance
provides two alternate notice procedures. The City believes that if there is another recognized
community organization within 600 feet of the project, the 45 day notice requirement is replaced
by the requirement to hold a project open house. That appears to have been the standing practice
of the City for some time. Because it held an open house, the City believes that it has complied
with the ordinance. Moreover, the City argues that the CCNC has not suffered any harm by the
actions of the City.

                                             ANALYSIS
I.      Salt Lake City Has Not Complied with the Plain Language of the Notice Ordinance

The ordinary rules of statutory construction do not support the City’s interpretation of Ordinance
2.60.050(C). The language does not provide alternate notice requirements. Rather, the 45 day
notice requirement must be construed to apply in all situations.

When interpreting a statute or ordinance, the primary objective is “to give effect to the legislative
intent, as evidenced by the plain language, in light of the purpose the statute was meant to
achieve.” Foutz v. City of S. Jordan, 100 P.3d 1171, 1174 (Utah 2004).

Advisory Opinion – John Davis
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 17, 2016 Page 3 of 6
           To discern legislative intent, . . . look first to the statute’s plain language. In doing
           so, . . . presume that the legislature used each word advisedly and read each term
           according to its ordinary and accepted meaning. Additionally, . . .read the plain
           language of the statute as a whole and interpret its provisions in harmony with
           other statutes in the same chapter.

Selman v. Box Elder County, 2011 UT 18, ¶18, 251 P.3d 804, 807 (citations and alterations from
original omitted). Moreover, “[O]ur interpretation of a statute requires that each part or section
be construed in connection with every other part or section so as to produce a harmonious
whole.” State in Interest of J.M.S., 280 P.3d 410, 413 (Utah 2011). In addition, “omissions in
statutory language should be taken note of and given effect.” Biddle v. Washington Terrace, 1999
UT 110, ¶ 14, 993 P.2d 875, 879 (citation omitted).

The City argues that Ordinance 2.60.050(C) provides two alternate processes. The first prohibits
the City from holding a public hearing or making a final decision within 45 days of the day
notice was sent to the recognized community organization chair:

           The recognized community organization chair(s) have forty five (45) days to
           provide comments, from the date the notice was sent. A public hearing will not be
           held, nor will a final decision be made about the project within the forty five (45)
           day period.

The second process requires that if certain conditions exist, including the project being within
600 feet of another recognized community organization, the City must schedule an open house,
and notify the public and the recognized community organizations:

           Where a project is within six hundred feet (600') of the boundaries of another
           recognized community organization's district, when more than one recognized
           organization has requested a presentation of the matter, when the subject property
           is located west of 2200 West, or when the project is a text amendment to the city
           code, the city will schedule the item for an open house and notify the public,
           including those recognized community organizations who may be affected by the
           project or who have specifically requested notification of the public open house.

The City argues that when the second “open house” provision is in effect, the first “45 day”
provision is not. They indicate that since there is another community organization within 600 feet
of the project, the Planning Commission’s action, with 35 days’ notice, was valid.

The plain language of the ordinance simply does not support the City’s interpretation. The
ordinance unambiguously and expressly states that “a public hearing will not be held . . . within
the 45 day period” (emphasis added). That language is plain, without qualifiers. Nothing in any
part of the ordinance removes or contradicts that requirement, or indicates that the two sections
are alternate, or that holding an open house eliminates the need to comply with the 45 day notice.
Furthermore, a public hearing before the Planning Commission on a legislative decision is
mandatory according to State law. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-502. Thus the second portion of the

Advisory Opinion – John Davis
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 17, 2016 Page 4 of 6
ordinance cannot eliminate the need for a public hearing. The second section does not mention
any time frames and it does not give any indication at all that it supersedes or counters in any
way the 45 day notice requirement. We are required to give effect to each section of a statute. We
thus cannot disregard the uncontradicted 45 day requirement.

Making the two sections alternate would have been easy for the legislative body to do. Nothing
can be found in the ordinance that does so. “[O]missions in statutory language should be taken
note of and given effect.” Biddle, 1999 UT 110, ¶14. One cannot assume that a mandatory time
frame, so plainly stated, can be ignored unless the ordinance expressly so provides. In order to
read each section of the statute as a harmonious whole, we cannot read one section at the
exclusion of the other.

Moreover, the principles of statutory interpretation require that we assume every term in the
ordinance was used advisedly. Thus we assume that the fifth word in this ordinance, chair(s), is
intentionally plural. Accordingly, the 45 day notice requirement could apply to multiple
organization chairs. Nothing in the plain language limits the meaning of the term chair(s) to a
case where there may be multiple chairpersons in a single organization. The far more likely plain
language interpretation of this plural word is that the 45 day notice must sometimes be provided
to more than one community organization chair. Therefore, the language does not support an
argument that the 45 day rule does not apply where more than one recognized community
organization is involved. Accordingly, we must give effect to the entire ordinance. The two
portions of the ordinance are not alternate.

The City also argues that interpreting these provisions as alternate reflects the long-standing
practice of the City. That would be highly relevant if the ordinance were ambiguous, resulting in
a need to seek the meaning beyond the plain language. But this ordinance is not ambiguous on its
face. Only the long-standing practice makes it potentially ambiguous. The plain language of the
ordinance contains nothing that could render the ordinance subject to more than one
interpretation. The plain language, rather than the long-standing practice, is the first
consideration in ordinance interpretation. Selman, 2011 UT 18, ¶18. Therefore, the public
hearing, held 35 days after notice was given, violates the City’s notice ordinance.

II.     The Action by the Planning Commission is Void

A violation of the City’s notice ordinance renders the action taken void. All available Utah
authority indicates that notice provisions require strict compliance. See Hatch v. Boulder Town
Council, 2001 UT App 55. “Failure to strictly follow the statutory requirements in enacting the
ordinance renders it invalid.” Call v. West Jordan, 727 P.2d 180, 183 (Utah 1986); Melville v. Salt
Lake County, 536 P.2d 133 (Utah 1975).

It is acknowledged that the Salt Lake City ordinance far exceeds the notice requirements in the
state law. Moreover, 35 days vs. 45 days seems like a de minimus violation. Also, the parties will
have the opportunity to provide input because the City Council will hold another public hearing
before making a final decision. Thus, the question of actual harm, raised by the City, is
understandable. However, no authority can be found to excuse a jurisdiction from strict
compliance with notice ordinances. “This well established rule [that failure to strictly comply

Advisory Opinion – John Davis
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 17, 2016 Page 5 of 6
with notice provisions renders a decision invalid] is followed by the great majority of
jurisdictions.” Call, 727 P.2d at 183. Accordingly, the established law leaves us no choice but to
find that a final decision taken in violation of the City’s notice ordinance will be void.

Note that the cases examined all hold that, after a violation of a notice ordinance, the final
decision is invalid. In this matter, there has not been a final decision, only a decision by the
Planning Commission to recommend approval of the zone change. This recommendation to the
City Council is required by statute. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-302, but is only advisory. The City
Council is not obligated to follow the Planning Commission’s recommendation. Nonetheless, the
recommendation is a mandatory part of the statutory process, as is the public hearing at the
Planning Commission. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-502. Strict compliance must include compliance with
all notices required by the process. It appears, therefore, that to rectify the matter, the City must
hold another public hearing before the planning commission.


                                          CONCLUSION
By holding a public hearing 35 days after sending notice to the Chair of the CCNC, Salt Lake
City has violated the plain language of its land use ordinance. Utah law requires strict
compliance with notice provisions, and any decision following that violation will be void. The
Planning Commission should hold a public hearing in order to comply with the ordinance.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – John Davis
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 17, 2016 Page 6 of 6
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in UTAH CODE § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:



                      Cindi Mansell, City Recorder
                      Salt Lake City
                      451 So. State Street, RM 415
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84111


On this ___________ Day of August, 2016, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
