                     Advisory Opinion #191
                          Parties: Reeves’ Riverton Ranch, LLC; Riverton City
                                         Issued: September 19, 2017

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                                     Conditional Use Applications
                                  Entitlement to Application Approval

By law, conditions imposed upon a conditional use permit must accord with
applicable standards adopted by ordinance. The City’s only valid standard vaguely
references preserving the health, safety, and general welfare. Accordingly, the
City may only impose reasonable conditions on the Applicant’s development
proposal to the extent that the conditions mitigate the use’s reasonably anticipated
detrimental effects on health, safety, or general welfare. To the extent that the
City’s conditions do not accord with this or other applicable ordinance standards,
they are invalid.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI      BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director     Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION
        Advisory Opinion Requested By:                Bruce R. Baird, Attorney for Reeves’ Riverton
                                                      Ranch, LLC

        Local Government Entity:                      Riverton City

        Type of Property:                             Recreational

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:                September 19, 2017

        Opinion Authored By:                          Jordan S. Cullimore
                                                      Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                      ISSUES
        Are the conditions imposed by Riverton City on the applicant’s proposed conditional use permit
        lawful?

                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        By law, conditions imposed upon a conditional use permit must accord with applicable standards
        adopted by ordinance. Riverton City’s only valid standard vaguely references preserving the
        health, safety, and general welfare. Accordingly, Riverton City may only impose reasonable
        conditions on Reeves’ development proposal to the extent that the conditions mitigate the use’s
        reasonably anticipated detrimental effects on health, safety, or general welfare. To the extent that
        Riverton City’s conditions do not accord with this or other applicable ordinance standards, they
        are invalid.

                                                     REVIEW
        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
        administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
        application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
        hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
        neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Bruce R. Baird on October 20, 2016. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Virginia Loader, City Recorder, City of
Riverton, at 12830 South 1700 West, Riverton, Utah. The City received the request on October
24, 2016.

                                            EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Bruce R. Baird, Attorney for Reeves
        Riverton Ranch, LLC, on October 20, 2016.
     2. Supplemental Submission submitted by Bruce A. Baird, Attorney for Reeves Riverton
        Ranch, LLC, on February 17, 2017.
     3. Reply from J. Craig Smith & Clayton H. Preece, Attorneys for the Riverton City,
        received March 24, 2017.
     4. Response from Bruce R. Baird, Attorney for Reeves Riverton Ranch, LLC, received April
        18, 2017.
     5. Response from J. Craig Smith & Clayton H. Preece, Attorneys for the Riverton City,
        received May 9, 2017.

                                           BACKGROUND
Reeves Riverton Ranch, LLC (“Reeves”) owns approximately 7.6 acres of land (the “property”)
adjacent to the Jordan River Parkway along the west bank of the Jordan River in Riverton City
(the “City”). The western border of the property abuts several existing single-family residences.

The property is presently zoned A-5, Agricultural. The A-5 Zone allows for agricultural uses and
a number of other related and compatible uses. The minimum lot size in the zoning district is 5
acres, so, under the current zoning, the lot may not be further subdivided for residential
development. On May 9, 2016, after failed attempts to petition the Riverton City Council to
rezone the property to allow a residential subdivision, Reeves submitted a conditional use permit
application to construct a privately-owned park consisting of two sports fields, a sand volleyball
pit, and a tot-lot playground. The use category “Parks and open space, public” is a conditionally
permitted use the A-5 Zone.

During the course of the City’s administrative review of the application, a great deal of
discussion and analysis occurred regarding whether the proposed privately-owned but publicly-
accessible park fit within the Zone’s “public park” use category. Ultimately, the Planning
Commission determined that it did and that it was a conditionally permitted use within the A-5
Zone. The Commission formally reviewed and approved the application during its August 25,
2016 meeting, subject to several conditions. This approval was formally adopted on October 13,


Advisory Opinion – Reeves Riverton Ranch
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 19, 2017        Page 2 of 11
2016. The conditions the City imposed were a result of staff analysis and recommendation,
multiple public meetings, and extensive input from City residents and neighbors to the property.1

The imposed conditions require that:

     1. The parking area include a minimum of 220 parking stalls, with stall dimensions and
         landscaped islands compliant with Riverton City standards and ordinances, with all
         parking areas accessible from the north access point.
     2. The parking area be paved with an asphalt or concrete surface.
     3. Drive aisle widths and turn radiuses comply with the requirements of the International
         Fire Code.
     4. No gates on drive accesses are allowed.
     5. Permanent plumbed restroom facilities be provided compliant with the International
         Building Code and Americans with Disabilities Act.
     6. Irrigated landscaping compliant with all applicable Riverton City standards and
         ordinances be installed on all unpaved areas of the property, with a landscaped plan
         approved as part of the site plan.
     7. Eight (8) foot solid masonry fencing be installed on the west and south property lines,
         with fencing to be extended adjacent to the existing sand volleyball pit.
     8. Parking lot and site lighting comply with Riverton City standards and ordinances, and be
         designed to minimize impact to the surrounding properties.
     9. Any necessary permits and/or permissions be secured prior to connection to the existing
         trail to the east.
     10. The site plan application include information on the existing pond in the northeast corner
         of the site, including fencing.
     11. The access to the parking area from Reeves Lane be widened to accommodate two-way
         flow of traffic in compliance with all applicable Riverton City standards and ordinances.
     12. The trash container/dumpster be enclosed, with enclosure and solid gating approved with
         site plan application.
     13. Access to and from the site include the public right-of-way at the north end of the
         property.

Reeves argues that several of these conditions are “illegal, punitive, facially insupportable, [and]
factually and legally unsupportable.” Reeves further asserts that the imposition of the conditions
is “tantamount to a denial of the CUP.” Reeves timely filed an administrative appeal with the
City, and Reeves and the City subsequently agreed “that it would be in everyone’s best interest to
obtain an Advisory Opinion from the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman before
proceeding with the administrative appeal.”

Accordingly, Reeves submitted a Request for Advisory Opinion to this office on October 20,
2016 asking us to examine the imposed conditions to determine whether they are lawful.

1
 In the submitted materials, Reeves accuses a city councilmember of secretly lobbying the planning commissioners
prior to the public hearing. Whether or not actionable ethics violations occurred relative to these communications
exceeds the scope of this Advisory Opinion. We limit our review to the question of whether the conditions imposed
on Reeves’s conditional use permit are lawful.


Advisory Opinion – Reeves Riverton Ranch
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 19, 2017        Page 3 of 11
                                                 ANALYSIS

I.         Law Governing Conditional Uses

State law gives local governments authority to designate certain uses as conditional uses within
their individual zoning districts. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-507(1). State Code defines a conditional
use as “a land use that, because of its unique characteristics or potential impact on the
municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent land uses, may not be compatible in some areas
or may be compatible only if certain conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the
detrimental impacts.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-103(5).

Consequently, in addition to ensuring that the proposed conditional use complies with all
general, relevant, non-discretionary requirements in the local code that any other permitted use
must comply with in the same zoning district2, a municipality must review and permit
conditional uses in accordance with the following:

           (1)        A land use ordinance may include conditional uses and provisions for
                      conditional uses that require compliance with standards set forth in an
                      applicable ordinance.
           (2)        (a)    A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are
                             proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated
                             detrimental effects of the proposed use in accordance with
                             applicable standards.
                      (b)    If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed
                             conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal
                             or the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance
                             with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-507. In accordance with state law, a municipality must adopt applicable
standards for conditional uses. These standards guide and limit the municipality’s discretion in
imposing specific conditions in addition to generally applicable code requirements.

When the municipality receives a conditional use permit application, it must first ensure the
proposal complies with relevant and generally applicable code requirements. The city must then
review the local code’s standards applicable to conditional uses and determine whether, in light
of the standards, the proposed use will produce any “detrimental impacts” on the municipality
generally, or on the surrounding uses and property owners specifically. If the decision makers are
unable to identify any reasonably anticipated detrimental effects, additional conditions are
unnecessary, and should not be imposed.


2
  Such requirements may include density ratios, minimum lot sizes, setbacks, parking lot and landscaping
requirements (percentage of landscaped area, number of trees), building and fire code requirements, etc.
Advisory Opinion – Reeves Riverton Ranch
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 19, 2017        Page 4 of 11
However, if detrimental impacts are identified, the municipality possesses discretion to impose
reasonable conditions specifically to mitigate the anticipated impacts and achieve compliance
with applicable standards. The conditions must be related to the purposes and goals of the
applicable standards, and must address the impacts in a reasonable manner. Finally, the
conditions must be supported by substantial evidence in the record.3 Wadsworth v. West Jordan
City, 2000 UT App 49, ¶ 9.

           A.         Applicable Standards for Conditional Uses Generally

Reeves argues that the City violated the law because it imposed conditions on the proposed park
use unrelated to applicable standards in the Riverton City Code. Reeves argues that in some
instances an applicable standard simply does not exist to justify a particular condition.

Most local ordinances contain standards addressing conditional use permits generally. These
general standards often relate to health, safety, general welfare, design, landscaping, aesthetics,
etc. Effective standards go further than this and identify specific considerations (traffic, access,
noise, lighting, buffering, compatibility, etc.). They also articulate purposes or goals related to
such considerations to guide the decision maker in identifying detrimental impacts.

The Utah Code does not define “applicable standard,” nor does it explain the degree of
specificity a standard must reach to be legally sufficient in guiding the local decision maker.
Clear, well-crafted standards effectively guide the local land use authority and produce relatively
predictable and unsurprising results. However, the law does not presently require that every
standard be flawlessly specific and objective. Although those make the best standards, the legal
threshold a standard must satisfy to be valid is much lower.

The Utah Supreme Court addressed what constitutes an appropriate “applicable standard” in the
context of a conditional use permit in Thurston v. Cache County, 626 P.2d 440 (Utah 1981). The
standard under review in Thurston required the decision maker to ensure that “the proposed use
will not be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons residing in the vicinity,
or injurious to the property in the vicinity.” Thurston v. Cache County, 626 P.2d 440, 444 (Utah
1981). The applicant for a conditional use permit in Thurston argued that this standard provided
“insufficient guidelines…for the issuance or denial of conditional use permits,” Id. at 443, and
that the standard left the city “completely without legislative limitations to issue or deny permits
according to its own desires….” Id. In response to this argument, the Court stated that the
County’s standard “adequately channel[ed] the discretionary activities of the Planning
Commission….” Id. at 444. Moreover, the court explained:


3
  Substantial evidence is “that quantum and quality of relevant evidence that is adequate to convince a reasonable
mind to support a conclusion.” First Nat’l Bank of Boston v. County Bd. of Equalization, 799 P.2d 1163, 1165 (Utah
1990). Moreover, and in this context, a court will uphold the City’s determination as supported by substantial
evidence as long as the decision maker has carefully reviewed and considered the submitted application and
evidence such as site plan drawings, elevations, material samples, architectural renderings, technical studies, etc.,
and made a reasonable, evidence-based determination in accordance with applicable ordinance provisions. See
Springville Citizens v. City of Springville, 1999 UT 25, ¶¶ 25-30, 979 P.2d 332 (the city’s decision was based upon
substantial evidence, and not arbitrary or capricious, because it held required meetings, carefully considered the
materials submitted, and reached a decision that a reasonable person could have reached).
Advisory Opinion – Reeves Riverton Ranch
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 19, 2017        Page 5 of 11
           While it is true that a zoning ordinance must set some ascertainable boundaries on
           the exercise of discretion by a zoning authority, such boundaries are not required
           to be unduly rigid or detailed. A generalized exposition of overall standards or
           policy goals suffices to direct the inquiry and deliberation of the zoning authority,
           and to permit appellate review of its decision.

Id. at 443-444. This reasoning applies to applicable standards intended to guide decision makers
in identifying detrimental impacts and imposing reasonable conditions to mitigate the impacts.4

           B.         Applicable Standards in Riverton’s City Code

Here, the only applicable standard in the Riverton City Code at the time Reeves applied for a
conditional use permit states that “the planning commission shall impose such…conditions as are
necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and the public welfare.” RIVERTON CITY CODE
§ 18.195.060. This standard is subsequently restated, and slightly expounded upon, a few lines
later: “[a] use [must] not, under circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to the health,
safety, or general welfare5 of persons residing or working in the vicinity….”6 Id. This standard is
strikingly similar to the standard considered in Thurston. While we agree that this vague
standard, in a practical sense, may encourage imposition of inapplicable or illegal conditions
because it lacks a degree of specificity, it is nonetheless legally sufficient.

Accordingly, we turn to the individual conditions imposed by the City on Reeves’ proposal to
determine whether the conditions are reasonable, and designed to mitigate anticipated
detrimental impacts in accordance with this standard. Because the applicable standard is
relatively broad, each condition’s connection to the standard must be clearly ascertainable to
avoid being deemed unassociated with the applicable standard, and therefore improper. The
connection cannot be a strained or ambiguous one. Moreover, as indicated previously, each
condition must be supported by substantial evidence in the record and may not be based simply
on individual preferences.




4
  Reeves seems to imply that a lawful standard must be as specific as, for example, “the parking lot must be paved
with asphalt or concrete,” or “the site must include two or more access points.” This confuses the concept of a
“standard” with that of a “categorical requirement” or “condition” in the context of conditional uses. A requirement,
or condition, is often the result of applying a standard. A requirement instructs the applicant specifically what he or
she must do to mitigate a detrimental effect. A standard, in this context, simply guides the decision maker and sets
reasonable limits on what types of requirements, or conditions, he or she may impose. The examples above are
examples of requirements, not standards.
5
  While detriments to health and safety are relatively easy to conceptualize, the “general welfare” and detriments to
it often prove difficult to articulate coherently. The Utah Supreme Court has observed that “courts have usually
shown deference to the findings of the [legislative body] of what is detrimental to the public welfare.” Skaggs Drug
Center, Inc. v. Ashley, 484 P.2d 723, 725 (Utah 1971). In the local government context, this means something is
detrimental to the public welfare only if the city’s local ordinance—the city code—designates it as such. To avoid
overbroad applications of this standard, we adhere to this principle.
6
  The ordinance contains other standards that both parties agree are no longer applicable due to recent changes in
State law regarding conditional uses. Accordingly, we will not consider them.
Advisory Opinion – Reeves Riverton Ranch
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 19, 2017        Page 6 of 11
II.        Analysis of Conditions Imposed by Riverton City

Condition No. 1: The parking area include a minimum of 220 parking stalls, with stall
dimensions and landscaped islands compliant with Riverton City standards and ordinances,
with all parking areas accessible from the north access point.

There are two parts to this condition: (1) a minimum of 220 parking spaces, and (2) a
requirement that all parking areas be accessible from the north access point. This section will
address the first part; the second part will be addressed below with Condition No. 13.

Riverton City Code Chapter 18.145 establishes general standards and requirements for all
parking lots within the City, regardless of whether the lot is associated with a permitted or
conditional use. Accordingly, Reeves’ proposed parking lot must comply with any applicable
standards or requirements in that Chapter. If the City deems the generally applicable parking
standards and requirements inadequate to address reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of
the conditional use to clear health, safety or welfare considerations, it may impose additional
reasonable parking requirements as conditions of approval. The conditions must be directly and
clearly related to health, safety, or general welfare—the City Code’s applicable standards for
conditional uses.

Riverton City Code § 18.145.120 establishes minimum parking space requirements for general
land use categories. The City has categorized the proposed use as a “recreational use”. The
minimum parking requirement for a recreational use is one space per three persons “based on the
maximum anticipated capacity of all facilities capable of simultaneous use as determined by the
planning director.” RIVERTON CITY CODE § 18.145.120 (emphasis added). It does not appear the
City has determined a “maximum anticipated capacity” on which to calculate a minimum
parking requirement. The standard is discussed, but the record gives no indication that the
planning director ever entered findings regarding the maximum anticipated capacity of all
facilities capable of simultaneous use, including the playing fields, the volleyball pit, playground,
general open space, etc.

Consequently, the City needs to gather the necessary information and make an evidence-based
determination regarding the maximum anticipated capacity of all facilities within Reeves’
proposal to calculate a minimum parking requirement according to the 1-to-3 ratio. This will
provide a baseline for the Planning Commission to work from that may be higher or lower than
the 220 spaces the Commission has required as a condition of approval.

Since the park is a conditional use, the Commission may require more parking than the
minimum, but only if the Commission finds, supported by substantial evidence, that any on-street
parking is a detrimental effect in light of clear health, safety, or welfare considerations. The
record provides no evidence that some on-street parking is detrimental to health, safety, or
welfare. On-street parking is not generally or inherently unsafe, unhealthy, or contrary to the
general welfare in residential neighborhoods. To the contrary, on-street parking is commonplace
and, in most cases, an efficient use of shoulder space.



Advisory Opinion – Reeves Riverton Ranch
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 19, 2017        Page 7 of 11
Reeves argues that it should only be required to provide 100 parking spaces in accordance with a
minimum parking space recommendation provided by Hales Engineering in a traffic study it
conducted for the project. While a traffic study prepared by a reputable source 7 constitutes an
excellent source of credible evidence to support a decision, it is not the only legitimate source
upon which the Commission may rely for evidence.

The record suggests, however, that the Commission imposed the 220 spaces requirement based
not on evidence that any on-street parking is detrimental to health, safety, or welfare, but on
suggested best practices, recommendations, and a preference that the use fully accommodate
parking on-site to discourage parking on adjacent residential streets. The record provides no
evidence that the standard parking limitation is detrimental to health, safety, or general welfare.
Consequently, the imposed parking requirement is unsupported by the evidence presented, and
the City has overstepped its authority in imposing the condition.

Condition No. 2: The parking area be paved with an asphalt or concrete surface.

This condition is unnecessary since Riverton City Code § 18.145.020 already requires parking
areas within the City to be paved with asphalt or concrete. Reeves must comply with this
requirement.

Condition No. 3: Drive aisle widths and turn radiuses comply with the requirements of the
International Fire Code.

This condition is also not necessary since all development in Utah must comply with
International Fire Code requirements. See UTAH CODE §§ 15A-1-403(1), 15A-5-103(1).

Condition No. 4: No gates on drive accesses are allowed.

This condition was not recommended by staff, but was imposed by the Commission during the
August 25, 2016 Planning Commission meeting. The Commission considered the matter only
briefly, and the record does not provide any evidence to support imposing the condition. It
appears to be related to preferences for open and easy access to the park. The staff report alludes
to a need for emergency vehicle access, but does so in the context of a condition requiring access
keys for gates, as opposed to no gates at all. Since there is no clear evidence that a gated access
will produce detrimental effects to health, safety, or welfare, the condition is inappropriate and
should be rescinded.

Condition No. 5: Permanent plumbed restroom facilities be provided compliant with the
International Building Code and Americans with Disabilities Act.

Reeves initially proposed temporary, portable restroom facilities on its concept site plan in its
conditional use permit application. In response, the Commission imposed the requirement that
restroom facilities be “permanent” and “plumbed.” We can find no evidence in the record that
adequate temporary facilities would constitute a detrimental impact to health, safety, or welfare


7
    Both parties agree that Hales Engineering is a reputable and credible source.
Advisory Opinion – Reeves Riverton Ranch
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 19, 2017        Page 8 of 11
that permanent facilities would alternatively mitigate. Consequently, the condition is
inappropriate.

We acknowledge, however, that the building code will apply and may require permanent
facilities due to the fact that the applicant seeks approval for a permanent use, as opposed to
time-limited or temporary use. This may have implications on what type of structures the
building code will or will not allow. Reeves will need to comply with any such requirements that
may be imposed as site plan and code review move forward. Reeves will also need to comply
with any applicable ADA and County Health Code requirements for restroom facilities.

Condition No. 6: Irrigated landscaping compliant with all applicable Riverton City standards
and ordinances be installed on all unpaved areas of the property, with a landscaped plan
approved as part of the site plan.

The evidence in the record suggests that this condition is related to the City’s preference that the
park be irrigated to ensure the groundcover is neat and attractive, and to prevent weeds. The City
points out that section 8.10.070 of the City Code makes it unlawful “to allow weeds to grow or
exist on…property” and requires property owners to remove weeds. RIVERTON CITY CODE §
8.10.070. Reeves will certainly need to comply with this and any other code provisions related to
weed abatement and nuisances. The City may address violations of the section as they occur
through its administrative code enforcement process. Nonetheless, the record provides no
evidence that unirrigated landscaping, in this case, will be detrimental to health, safety, or
welfare. Therefore, the condition is inappropriate.

Condition No. 7: Eight (8) foot solid masonry fencing be installed on the west and south
property lines, with fencing be extended adjacent to the existing sand volleyball pit.

The City Code definition of “noncompatible zone” specifically states that a residential zone is
incompatible with an agricultural zone. RIVERTON CITY CODE § 18.05.030. Section 18.155.080 of
the Code further states that a “solid core decorative precast concrete or integrally colored and
textured block, brick, or other masonry fence with a minimum height of six feet shall be required
between noncompatible zones.” RIVERTON CITY CODE § 18.155.080. Reeves must comply with
these mandatory provisions. The provisions do not, however, grant independent discretion to the
City to raise the fence height for any reason. If a proposed fence is 6 feet in height, it will meet
this requirement.

Since the park in this case is a conditional use, the City may impose a condition to increase the
height requirement if it finds by substantial evidence a detrimental effect of the proposed use
directly relates to health, safety, or welfare, and the height increase will substantially mitigate the
effect. The record provides no evidence in this regard. Consequently, Reeves’ project will
comply if it includes a six foot masonry fence along the boundary of noncompatible zones, in
compliance with City Code requirements.




Advisory Opinion – Reeves Riverton Ranch
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 19, 2017        Page 9 of 11
Condition No. 8: Parking lot and site lighting comply with Riverton City standards and
ordinances, and be designed to minimize impact to the surrounding properties.

This condition appears unnecessary since Riverton City Code Chapter 18.215 addresses these
considerations at the site plan stage of the approval process.

Condition No. 9: Any necessary permits and/or permissions be secured prior to connection to
the existing trail to the east.

This unnecessary condition simply restates other independent requirements.

Condition No. 10: The site plan application include information on the existing pond in the
northeast corner of the site, including fencing.

It appears that this condition is also unnecessary, since such information should be provided in
the ordinary course of site plan review.

Condition No. 11: The access to the parking area from Reeves Lane be widened to
accommodate two-way flow of traffic in compliance with all applicable Riverton City
standards and ordinances.

Reeves has stated it will comply with this condition, and that it is satisfied with the justification
the City has provided in its response to the Advisory Opinion request. We therefore decline to
address the condition further.

Condition No. 12: The trash container/dumpster be enclosed, with enclosure and solid gating
approved with site plan application.

In the record, the City indicates that city ordinance requires trash receptacles to be enclosed.
Reeves points out that the referenced section—Riverton City Code § 18.215.030—applies only
to commercial buildings. Regardless, the City’s nuisance section does not allow “trash, rubbish
or debris” to “remain on any lot outside of approved containers.” RIVERTON CITY CODE §
18.135.080(4). Reeves must comply with this provision. Unless the City can show by substantial
evidence that failing to enclose such containers will produce a detrimental effect on health,
safety, or welfare, the City may not impose additional conditions related to enclosures and
gating.

Condition No. 13: Access to and from the site include the public right-of-way at the north end
of the property.

There is sufficient evidence in the record to support the conclusion that this condition is directly
related to legitimate health and safety considerations. The record indicates the condition was
imposed to provide a more direct route to the site from a signalized intersection on 114th South,
as well as a “more efficient access point” that would “take traffic off of Reeves Lane and avoid
some of the issues that may come.”


Advisory Opinion – Reeves Riverton Ranch
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 19, 2017        Page 10 of 11
The City reviewed and discussed this matter extensively, see Springville Citizens v. City of
Springville, 1999 UT 25, ¶¶ 25-30, and using substantial evidence, reasonably concluded that
requiring an access at the north end of the property will provide more efficient access to a higher
capacity road, improve traffic circulation and overall traffic safety. These are appropriate safety
concerns, and the number of anticipated vehicles accessing the site provides further evidence to
support the condition. The condition will appropriately mitigate a reasonably anticipated
detrimental effect related to legitimate traffic safety concerns. Accordingly, the condition is
appropriate. It follows that the second part of Condition No. 1, requiring all parking areas to be
accessible from the north access point, is reasonable and in line with the legitimate purpose of
this condition.

                                           CONCLUSION
The City’s only valid standard vaguely references preserving the health, safety, and general
welfare. Accordingly, the City may only impose reasonable condition on Reeves’ development
proposal to the extent that the conditions mitigate the use’s reasonably anticipated detrimental
effects on health, safety, or general welfare. We have provided an analysis of the extent to which
each of the conditions the City has imposed complies with these standards.



Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Reeves Riverton Ranch
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 19, 2017        Page 11 of 11
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                      Virginia Loader
                      City Recorder, Riverton City
                      12830 South 1700 West
                      Riverton, UT 84065

On this ___________ Day of _______, 2017, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT           OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                          FRANCINE A. GIANI     BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX           Executive Director    Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                 ADDENDUM TO ADVISORY OPINION
                             IN RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR RECONSIDERATION




        Reconsideration Requested By:              Bruce R. Baird
                                                   Attorney for Reeves’ Riverton Ranch, LLC

        Local Government Entity:                   Riverton City

        Date of Advisory Opinion:                  September 19, 2017

        Date of this Addendum:                     November 21, 2017

        Addendum Authored By:                      Brent N. Bateman
                                                   Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                                 SUMMARY
        On September 19, 2017, this Office issued Advisory Opinion #191, Reeves Riverton Ranch v.
        Riverton City (the “Advisory Opinion”). A few days later, Reeves Riverton Ranch submitted a
        Request for Reconsideration of that Advisory Opinion, and counsel for Riverton City responded
        in opposition. This Office has accepted and carefully considered this Request for
        Reconsideration. This Addendum to Advisory Opinion represents this Office’s response thereto.

        This Addendum supplements the Advisory Opinion, and both parts should together be considered
        Advisory Opinion #191, under UTAH CODE § 13-43-205. Neither the Advisory Opinion nor this
        Addendum should be given any effect independent of the other. If any portion of this Addendum
        is found to directly conflict with the Advisory Opinion, this Addendum will control. Narrative
        facts and legal analysis contained in the Advisory Opinion will not be repeated here except as
        needed.
                                                       ANALYSIS
We decline to amend the conclusions in Advisory Opinion #191.


1. Condition No. 13

On the surface, the Advisory Opinion appears to be very favorable to Reeves, who requested
reconsideration, and very disfavorable to Riverton, who opposed it. The Advisory Opinion found
twelve of the thirteen conditions imposed by Riverton City either unnecessary or invalid. Some
conditions lacked evidence in support, some lacked a sufficient link to the City’s standard, and
some exceeded the authority of the City. Nevertheless, Condition No. 13: Access to and from the
site at the north end of the property, is apparently a critical condition to the developer. We found
substantial evidence in the record and a sufficient relationship to the City’s health, safety, and
welfare standard to support Condition No. 13. This loss has apparently overshadowed the other
twelve1 victories.

We agree with the developer that much public clamor appears to have been gathered and
unwisely employed by the City in imposing those conditions, including Condition No. 13.
Nevertheless, as summarized in the Advisory Opinion, through the clamor there existed that
modicum of evidence necessary to convince a reasonable mind that the additional entrance
mitigated a reasonably anticipated detrimental effect and advanced the City’s standard of public
safety. Therefore, we have no occasion to amend that conclusion.


2. Thurston

The developer’s objections run deeper, however, than the individual conditions. As stated in the
Advisory Opinion, Riverton City’s only meaningful standard upon which it could craft
conditions is “Protection of adjacent property and public welfare” and “not detrimental to the
health, safety, or general welfare or persons residing or working in the vicinity.” Riverton City
had no other standards upon which to base a valid conditional use permit. The developer argues
that this standard is invalid and insufficient.

The Advisory Opinion likewise does not speak highly of this standard: “While we agree that this
vague standard, in a practical sense, may encourage imposition of inapplicable or illegal
conditions because it lacks a degree of specificity, it is nonetheless legally sufficient.” It might
help now to be more direct. This standard is very weak. We feel that it is fraught with the
potential for abuse. The general inadequacy of this standard resulted in many conditions being
invalidated. It allows only the barest possibility that it might support a condition – and only then

1
 Much of Reeves’ request for reconsideration addressed their objection to our supposed finding on Condition No. 1:
220 parking stalls. However, as has been observed, the Advisory Opinion found Condition No. 1 invalid and
unsupported, and that the City overstepped its authority in imposing it.
Addendum to Advisory Opinion – Reeves Riverton Ranch
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 21, 2017        Page 2 of 5
with a strong showing of a relationship between the conditions and legitimate health, safety and
welfare concerns. Cities can and should do better.

Nevertheless, this standard has been held by the Utah Supreme Court in Thurston v. Cache
County, 626 P.2d 440, 444 (Utah 1981) to minimally suffice. Thurston is unambiguous in its
similarity and application to the standard under consideration:

           The Cache County Planning Commission is empowered by the County Zoning
           Ordinance to issue or deny conditional use permits . . . under the proviso that “the
           proposed use will not be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of
           persons residing in the vicinity, or injurious to property in the vicinity.” Such
           statutory standards adequately channel the discretionary activities of the Planning
           Commission, and do not support a claim of denial of equal protection.

This Office is obligated to follow the existing law. See UTAH CODE § 13-43-206(9). Thurston is
valid law and directly applicable precedent that we are not free to ignore. Thus, despite the
insufficiencies of the City’s public safety standard, it is not invalid.


3. HB232

We likewise cannot find that HB232 (2017) overturned Thurston, either overtly or by
implication. HB232 formalized a statutory procedure for interpreting local ordinances:

           10-9a-306. Land use authority requirements -- Nature of land use decision.
           (1) A land use authority shall apply the plain language of land use regulations.
           (2) If a land use regulation does not plainly restrict a land use application, the land
           use authority shall interpret and apply the land use regulation to favor the land use
           application.2

These statutory changes require a land use authority to rely upon an ordinance’s plain language.
Where the language is not plain, the ordinance should be interpreted to favor the land use
application.

HB232 cannot have overturned Thurston. In the first place, the HB232 language simply restates
and codifies long-existing and well-established caselaw. It is not new. This language concerning
the interpretation of ordinances coexisted with Thurston long before HB232.

Moreover, although section 10-9a-306 may have significant application in a conditional use
context, in order for this language to overturn Thurston, the entire conditional use permit scheme
would need to be discarded. The reason lies in the difference between language that is vague and

2
  Reeves cited HB232’s changes to Utah Code § 10-9a-707 as overturning Thurston. Section 707 addresses the
standards to be used by local appeal authorities in hearing an appeal of a land use decision. More appropriate in our
opinion is HB232’s changes to UTAH CODE § 10-9a-306, which addresses the land use decision process for the land
use authority. It is the decision of the land use authority, and not the appeal authority, being examined here.
Nevertheless, the two sections are very similar in relevant part, so the analysis and result are identical.
Addendum to Advisory Opinion – Reeves Riverton Ranch
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 21, 2017        Page 3 of 5
language that is discretionary. When language is vague, it can be reasonably interpreted as
having more than one meaning. When language is discretionary, the result will depend on
individual perspective and opinions. Very plain language, not vague at all, can be extremely
discretionary. The “substantial evidence in the record” standard itself is an example.

A certain amount of discretion is central to the scheme of conditional use permits. Conditional
use standards present varying degrees of discretion. Perfectly objective standards eliminate all
discretion, and are thus not standards at all, but are simply requirements. Discretion requires
some subjectivity. However, subjectivity does not make the conditions vague. Many perfectly
plain legal statements are subjective. For example, the taking standard sates that “if regulation
goes too far it will be recognized as a taking.” Pennsylvania Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U.S. 393
(1922). This is not vague. It is subject to only one possible interpretation. However, it is
extraordinarily subjective.

In the Opinion of this Office, the best conditional use standards are minimally subjective, and
thus give narrow discretion. Increasing discretion makes for worse standards. However, there
exists a range of legally acceptable discretion. However some discretion is appropriate and
desirable in a conditional use context. Thurston set the baseline of acceptable discretion. HB232
primarily addresses vagueness. To say that HB232 requires perfect objectivity is to say that it
eliminates discretion. Removing all discretion disables the Conditional Use Permit scheme.

Riverton City’s public safety standard is extremely subjective, and nearly too subjective to be
useful. Nevertheless, under Thurston, it “adequately channel[s] the discretionary activities” of
the City. HB232 addresses vagueness but does not eliminate discretion. Thus, HB232 did not
overturn Thurston.


4. Remand

Finally, the developer argues that the Advisory Opinion allows the City to “gin up grounds for
imposing virtually any condition on a CUP” and “make up requirements without any evidence.”
The Advisory Opinion does neither. The Advisory Opinion does contain the statement that
“While a traffic study [offered by Reeves] prepared by a reputable source constitutes an excellent
source of credible evidence to support a decision, it is not the only legitimate source upon which
the Commission may rely for evidence.” This statement is an accurate statement of the law.
Reeves offered apparently good and reliable evidence on the amount of parking needed for
safety. The City’s only evidence related to a best practice for parking at a soccer field. The City’s
evidence did not support the health, safety, and welfare standard. We agree that the City based its
number upon clamor rather than relying on substantial evidence related to the City’s only
standard. Nevertheless, had the City offered other credible substantial evidence that did support
the standard, it would have been within its purview to weigh both pieces of evidence. The City
may rely on any credible substantial evidence it receives.

Unlike McElhaney v. Moab, 2017 UT 65, which was released some days after the Advisory
Opinion, nothing in an Advisory Opinion affords a City an extra opportunity to gin up reasons to
support their findings. An Advisory Opinion is just that, an opinion, and in force, advisory. There

Addendum to Advisory Opinion – Reeves Riverton Ranch
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 21, 2017        Page 4 of 5
is no remand. The developer’s recourse after an Advisory Opinion is legal action, with the
possibility of an award of fees. UTAH CODE § 13-43-206(12). The Advisory Opinion held that 12
of the 13 conditions were unnecessary or invalid. Riverton does not now get another chance to
find grounds to support its invalid conditions.


                                                       CONCLUSION
The Advisory Opinion and this Addendum together represent Advisory Opinion #191. No
changes will be made to the conclusions in the Advisory Opinion.



Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Addendum to Advisory Opinion – Reeves Riverton Ranch
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 21, 2017        Page 5 of 5
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                      Virginia Loader
                      City Recorder, Riverton City
                      12830 South 1700 West
                      Riverton, UT 84065

On this ___________ Day of _______, 2017, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
