                     Advisory Opinion #140
                               Parties: Central Bank and Saratoga Springs
                                             Issued: May 20, 2014
                 Reconsidered Opinion -- Original Opinion # 123, Issued on April 30, 2013

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                            Compliance With Land Use Ordinances
                             Nonconforming Uses and Structures

A property owner must establish that a land use was legal at the time it was commenced
in order for it to qualify as a legal nonconforming use. A property owner may do so by
showing that the use was legal under the terms of an annexation agreement that sets
forth the relevant land use restrictions applicable to a property. A city may not defeat a
property right by relying on a contrary ordinance it does not produce. Doing so violates
the owner’s constitutional rights.

In this case, Central Bank’s predecessor in interest received a building permit from Utah
County to build a horse barn on lots 8, 9 and 10 (collectively, the “Property”) of the Sage
Hill Subdivision. The Property was annexed into Saratoga Springs (the “City”) during the
barn’s construction. An Annexation and Development Agreement (the “Annexation
Agreement”) between the City and the owners provided the zoning designation and land
use restrictions applicable to the Property at the time of the annexation. Central Bank
has shown that the Annexation Agreement did not restrict the commercial use of the
barn. The City has alleged that a zoning ordinance in place at the time of the Annexation
Agreement did not allow any commercial uses of the barn. The City has not provided
any copy of this ordinance. The City must produce the ordinance in order to use it to
deprive Central Bank of a property right to avoid violating Central Bank’s constitutional
rights.

                                                DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each
Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was
prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes
or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide
general guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be
considered legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current
laws.



                     The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                                  (801) 530-6391
                     Utah Department of Commerce                                                 1-877-882-4662
                     PO Box 146702                                                           Fax: (801) 530-6338
                     160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                     www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                     Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                         propertyrights@utah.gov
                        State of Utah
                        Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                        OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 SPENCER J. COX
Lieutenant Governor




                                        ADVISORY OPINION
                                           (RECONSIDERED)

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:              Central Bank
                                                  By: John Brems, Attorney for Central Bank

      Local Government Entity:                    City of Saratoga Springs

      Date of Original Advisory Opinion:          April 30, 2013

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:              May 20, 2014

      Reconsidered Opinion Authored By:           James S. Wright
                                                  Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                  Issue
      May a city use circumstantial evidence about an ordinance it does not produce to prevent a
      property owner from establishing a legal nonconforming use when a property owner can show
      other applicable regulations allowed the use at the time it commenced?

                                   Summary of Advisory Opinion
      A property owner must establish that a land use was legal at the time it was commenced in order
      for it to qualify as a legal nonconforming use. A property owner may do so by showing that the
      use was legal under the terms of an annexation agreement that sets forth the relevant land use
      restrictions applicable to a property. A city may not defeat a property right by relying on a
      contrary ordinance it does not produce. Doing so violates the owner’s constitutional rights.

      In this case, Central Bank’s predecessor in interest received a building permit from Utah County
      to build a horse barn on lots 8, 9 and 10 (collectively, the “Property”) of the Sage Hill
      Subdivision. The Property was annexed into Saratoga Springs (the “City”) during the barn’s
      construction. An Annexation and Development Agreement (the “Annexation Agreement”)
      between the City and the owners provided the zoning designation and land use restrictions
      applicable to the Property at the time of the annexation. Central Bank has shown that the
      Annexation Agreement did not restrict the commercial use of the barn. The City has alleged that
a zoning ordinance in place at the time of the Annexation Agreement did not allow any
commercial uses of the barn. The City has not provided any copy of this ordinance. The City
must produce the ordinance in order to use it to deprive Central Bank of a property right to avoid
violating Central Bank’s constitutional rights.


                                                                  Review
On April 30, 2013, the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman (the “Office”) issued an
Advisory Opinion (the “Original Advisory Opinion”) in the matter of Central Bank versus the
City of Saratoga Springs. That Opinion addressed whether Central Bank had established a legal
nonconforming use related to the commercial boarding and training of horses on the Property.
On July 11, 2013 John Brems, attorney for Central Bank, requested that this Office reconsider
Section C.3 of the Original Advisory Opinion. Specifically, Mr. Brems objected to the
conclusion that the use on the property was not permitted when first established based on a
conclusion that an ordinance the City could not produce could be inferred to prohibit the
commercial use of the barn. It is this Office’s policy to accept and consider such requests when
received. This Reconsidered Advisory Opinion is issued in response to that request.

This Reconsidered Advisory Opinion does not supersede or replace the Original Advisory
Opinion, except with regard to the specific questions addressed herein. The Original Advisory
Opinion remains in full force and effect as the opinion of this Office, except as supplemented by
this document. To the extent the Original Advisory Opinion conflicts with matters addressed in
this document, this document controls.

                                                                  Evidence
The Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information in preparing this
Reconsidered Advisory Opinion:

     1.          Original Advisory Opinion and the evidence referenced therein.
     2.          Letter submitted by John N. Brems and received by the Office on July 15, 2013
                 requesting a reconsideration of the Original Advisory Opinion (the “Request for
                 Reconsideration”).
     3.          Letter by Brent Bateman dated October 9, 2013 and sent to John N. Brems and Kevin
                 S. Thurman relating to the Request for Reconsideration.
     4.          Letter submitted by John N. Brems and received by the Office on October 30, 2013.
     5.          Letter submitted by Kevin S. Thurman and received by the Office on February 24,
                 2014.
     6.          Letter submitted by John N. Brems and received by the Office on March 14, 2014.
     7.          Letter submitted by Kevin S. Thurman and received by the Office on April 21, 2014.




Advisory Opinion – Central Bank/Saratoga Springs (Reconsidered)
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 20, 2014 Page 2 of 6
                                                                  Background
In 1999, Central Bank’s predecessor received a building permit from Utah County to build an
approximately 84,000 square foot barn on the Property. The barn included over 70 horse stalls,
an area for horseshoeing, a horse wash station, restrooms and a large arena with spectator
seating. The Property was then located in the RA-5 zone. Under this zone, “[t]he care and
keeping of domestic livestock and fowl without restriction as to number; and barns, stables. . .”
were permitted uses.

The City annexed the Property in May of 1999, as construction on the barn began. In
conjunction with the annexation, the City entered into the Annexation Agreement with the
owners of the property annexed into the City. This agreement set forth the zoning and other land
use restrictions applicable to the Property.

Even though the City annexed the Property, Utah County officials continued to inspect and
oversee the barn’s construction until its completion in April of 2001. In 2002 the City realized it
had not issued a certificate of occupancy and acted to complete this process. While proceeding
to issue the certificate of occupancy, the City found out the Property’s owners used the barn for
commercial horse boarding and training purposes, in violation, the City believed, of applicable
land use restrictions.

Central Bank acquired the Property pursuant to foreclosure proceedings in November of 2011.
The City has indicated its position that applicable land use restrictions do not allow any
commercial activity on the Property. Central Bank has countered that the applicable land use
regulations allowed commercial activities when the prior owner completed the barn and
established the commercial horse boarding and training at the barn and therefore they are legal
nonconforming uses.

This Office issued the Original Advisory Opinion concluding that Central Bank had not
established that the prior ordinances allowed the commercial uses of the Property at the time
these activities commenced. The City could not produce its zoning ordinance in effect at the
time it annexed the Property for analysis in the Original Advisory Opinion. After this Office
issued that opinion, Central Bank asked for a reconsideration of the portion of that opinion
addressing the effect of the City’s failure to produce a copy of the applicable zoning ordinance.
The City provided a copy of its zoning ordinance enacted a few months after the annexation, but
did not provide a copy of any ordinance in effect at the time of the annexation. This Advisory
Opinion will address the effect of the City’s failure to provide this ordinance.

                                                                   Analysis
The Commercial Boarding of Horses at the Barn Was Legal When Established.

Under Utah law, if a land use is a legal nonconforming use, then property owners generally have
the right to continue using the property as they have historically done, even if it violates current
land use ordinances. UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-511(1)(a). In order to qualify as a legal


Advisory Opinion – Central Bank/Saratoga Springs (Reconsidered)
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 20, 2014 Page 3 of 6
nonconforming use, the use must have, among other things, conformed to the land use
regulations prior to the change in land use designation making it illegal. UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-
9a-103(32). In this case, the commercial horse boarding and training at the barn were legal when
they commenced because Central Bank has satisfactorily established that the Annexation
Agreement allowed these uses and the City has not provided any copy of the concurrent
ordinance it says prohibited these uses.

           A. The Annexation Agreement Allows the Commercial Use of the Barn.

The Annexation Agreement sets forth the land use regulations applicable to the Property at the
time of the Property’s annexation into the City. The Annexation Agreement states:
“Development of the Property shall be governed by the terms of this Agreement including the
terms set forth in Exhibit C.” Annexation Agreement, Section 4.0. The Agreement also says
that “The parties agree that the zoning classifications and densities assigned to the Properties
upon annexation by the Town Council . . . shall be those set forth in Exhibit D, ‘Zoning Map.’”
Annexation Agreement Section 5.0.

The Annexation Agreement’s land use regulations applied at the time the prior property owner
commenced using the barn when completed in 2001 because these rights vested pursuant to the
express terms of the agreement. The Annexation Agreement states: “[T]he rights established by
this Agreement shall vest immediately upon annexation, shall run with the land, and shall be
irrevocable for a period of not less than five years following the annexation.” Annexation
Agreement, Section 9.0. No party has indicated, and we have no reason to believe, that the City
attempted to change any rights vested by the Annexation Agreement as allowed by the specific
provisions of its Section 9.0. This means that the land use regulations contained in the
Annexation Agreement governed the Property at the time of the barn’s completion in 2001,
despite the new zoning ordinance the City enacted a few months after the Annexation
Agreement.

The Annexation Agreement contains some land use regulations, but Central Bank has shown that
nothing precludes a commercial use of the Property in the Annexation Agreement. Under
common law principles, property owners have the right to unrestricted use of their property
unless restricted by zoning or other regulations. See Hugoe v. Woods Cross, 988 P.2d 456, 458
(Utah Ct. App. 1999). This means that if the applicable land use regulations contained in the
Annexation Agreement or other zoning ordinance, if any, in effect at the time of the Annexation
Agreement did not prohibit commercial uses of the barn, then common law principles allowed
them. Given that Central Bank has shown that the Annexation Agreement allowed commercial
uses of the Property and the City has not produced any applicable ordinance showing that
commercial uses violated the terms of the Annexation Agreement, commercial uses were legal at
the time of the barn’s completion in 2001.



Advisory Opinion – Central Bank/Saratoga Springs (Reconsidered)
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 20, 2014 Page 4 of 6
           B. The City Cannot Use an Ordinance It Does not Produce to Deprive a Party of
              Property Rights.

To date, the City has not provided any copy of a zoning ordinance in existence at the time of the
Annexation Agreement. It has argued that circumstantial evidence suggests there was an
ordinance and that the evidence further suggests this ordinance did not allow any commercial use
of the Property. The City desires to use this evidence to determine that using the barn for
commercial purposes violated the ordinances in effect at the time of the Annexation Agreement.
Applicable law, however, prohibits the City from using an ordinance it does not produce from
depriving Central Bank of a property right.

If an ordinance is too vague for an individual to understand what conduct it regulates, it violates
the due process clause of the U.S. Constitution and is unenforceable. Grayned v. City of
Rockford, 408 U.S. 104, 108 (1972) (“It is a basic principle of due process that an enactment is
void for vagueness if its prohibitions are not clearly defined . . . we insist that laws give the
person of ordinary intelligence a reasonable opportunity to know what is prohibited, so that he
may act accordingly.”) Likewise, if an ordinance cannot be referenced at all, its attempted use to
deprive a party of rights violates constitutional protections based on the same principle that
people need notice of laws so they know what conduct is prohibited.

In this matter, the City is attempting to use an ordinance that it has not produced to prevent
Central Bank from using the Property for commercial uses. Without a chance to examine this
ordinance, Central Bank cannot know exactly which conduct was prohibited at the time of the
establishment of the commercial uses of the barn. If the City can produce the ordinance, then
Central Bank will need to show that its conduct conforms to the uses allowed by that law, but an
absent ordinance cannot deprive it of rights allowed by the Annexation Agreement.

In addition, the Utah Supreme Court has declared that depriving property owners of the right to
continue a nonconforming use by ordinance deprives the owners of a property right. Gibbons &
Reed Co. v. North Salt Lake, 431 P.2d 559, 563 (Utah 1967) (“. . . a zoning ordinance which
required the discontinuance forthwith of a nonconforming use would be a deprivation of property
without due process of law.”). In this case, the City has not passed a new zoning ordinance
explicitly requiring the discontinuation of the nonconforming use; however, the City desires to
arrive at the same result by arguing that an ordinance not available for examination precludes the
commercial use of the Property as allowed by the Annexation Agreement.

Unless the City can produce a zoning ordinance in effect at the time of the Annexation
Agreement, it cannot take action to deprive Central Bank of a nonconforming use by passing an
ordinance or by arriving at that same result by failing to produce a relevant ordinance and then
arguing that this absent ordinance disallows the commercial use of the Property. If the City can
produce this ordinance, Central Bank will need to show that it allowed the commercial use of the


Advisory Opinion – Central Bank/Saratoga Springs (Reconsidered)
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 20, 2014 Page 5 of 6
Property. Until the City can produce this ordinance, the City cannot deprive Central Bank of the
right to use the Property for commercial purposes allowed by the Annexation Agreement based
on an absent ordinance under due process considerations.

                                                                  Conclusion
Central Bank has shown that the Annexation Agreement allowed the commercial use of the
Property at the time of the barn’s completion. The City cannot deprive Central Bank of a
property right with an ordinance it does not produce for examination. If the City can produce a
relevant ordinance, Central Bank will need to show that it allowed the commercial use of the
Property in order to show the historic commercial uses of the Property are legal nonconforming
uses.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Central Bank/Saratoga Springs (Reconsidered)
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 20, 2014 Page 6 of 6
NOTE:


This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached Advisory Opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63G-7-401.

These provisions of state code require the delivery of the Advisory Opinion to the agent at the
address designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental
entity in the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Mark Christensen, City Manager
              City of Saratoga Springs
              1307 N. Commerce Drive
              Saratoga Springs, Utah 84045


On this ___________ day of May, 2014, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the foregoing governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
