                   Advisory Opinion #109
                            Parties: George Mount and Summit County
                                        Issued: December 6, 2011

                                         TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      E: Entitlement to Application Approval (Vesting)
                      R(v): Other Topics (Interpretation of Ordinances)

Covenants, conditions, and restrictions created by private property owners are
essentially a contract binding those owners. Since the local government was not
a party, it is not bound by the agreement, and may regulate the property as it sees
fit. Some property owners may possibly claim equitable estoppel, if significant
expenses were incurred due to reliance on the government’s representations.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   GREG BELL
Lieutenant Governor



                                        ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:              George Mount

      Local Government Entity:                    Summit County

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:        George Mount

      Type of Property:                           Commercial Development

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:              December 6, 2011

      Opinion Authored By:                        Elliot R. Lawrence
                                                  Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                  Issues
      Is a local government legally obligated to recognize uses listed in a private declaration of
      covenants, conditions, and restrictions for a subdivision development, if the government is not a
      party to the declaration, and if the zoning for the undeveloped property will not allow the uses?

                                   Summary of Advisory Opinion
      The Declaration was created by private property owners, and is essentially a contract amongst
      the property owners in the subdivision. The County is not a party to that Declaration, and is not
      bound by its terms. Private property is subject to reasonable land use regulation. Private
      covenants do not obligate local governments.

      Although the Declaration is not binding, the County may nevertheless bind itself through the
      doctrine of equitable estoppel. If a property owner incurs significant expense, or makes
      substantial changes based on the County’s representation that a use may be allowed, the County
      cannot deny that use. Mere ownership of property is not a significant expense or a substantial
      change in position. However, improvements to property, if based on reasonable reliance of
      representations that use may be allowed, may bind the County to accept that use.
                                                   Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A request for an Advisory Opinion was received from George Mount on August 25, 2011. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Bob Jasper, County Manager for Summit
County, at 60 North Main, Coalville, Utah 84017. The return receipt was signed and delivered
on August 30, 2011, indicating it had been received by the County.

                                                  Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by George Mount,
                 received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, August 25, 2011.
     2.          Response submitted on behalf of the County by Jami Brackin, Deputy County
                 Attorney, received September 16, 2011.
     3.          Reply submitted by George Mount, received September 30, 2011.
     4.          Material submitted by Jim Conway, received November 16, 2011.

                                                  Background
George Mount owns four contiguous lots in Silver Creek Estates, a subdivision located at Silver
Creek Junction in Summit County. 1 The subdivision was created in 1965, and was originally
intended to be a type of planned development, mixing residential, commercial and light
industrial uses. When the subdivision was created, the County did not have a comprehensive
zoning ordinance, although it approved the subdivision plat. In the absence of zoning
ordinances, the property owners adopted declarations which governed uses, densities, heights, set
backs, and other development matters for the subdivision. In particular, Unit “I” of the
subdivision, where Mr. Mount’s parcels are located, consists of parcels near the intersection of
two major highways, had a declaration allowing a mixture of residential, commercial, and light
industrial uses. 2 This Declaration is essentially covenants, conditions, and restrictions

1
 Silver Creek Junction is at the intersection of Interstate 80 and U.S. Highway 40.
2
 Declaration of Reservations and Protective Covenants, Silver Creek Estates Unit “I” (25 February 1965) (hereafter
“Declaration.”)

Advisory Opinion – Mount/Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 6, 2011 Page 2 of 9
(“CC&Rs”) for the property, although it contains enough detail to govern development of that
portion of the subdivision.

Based on the information provided for this Opinion, it appears that the subdivision was to be
managed by the Silver Creek Ranch Corporation, which had filed the plat and created the
Declaration. However, that corporation was dissolved in 1980, and no evidence has been
submitted that there is or was ever a successor corporation or owner appointed. It also appears
that the lots of the subdivision have all been sold. 3 A special service district has been created to
maintain the roads for the area.

Several years after the subdivision was created, the County adopted and implemented a
comprehensive zoning ordinance. Under the County’s current ordinances, the Silver Creek
Estates area is zoned “rural residential.” Despite this zoning, the County states that it recognizes
the Declaration as governing development of Silver Creek Estates Unit I, but the Declaration
cannot be expanded beyond its express terms. Thus, commercial and light industrial uses
specifically listed in the Declaration are allowable, even though the County’s “official” zoning
for the area is residential. The County maintains that the Declaration created “vested” rights in
the plat, and it treats the Declaration as analogous to a nonconforming, or “grandfathered” use.
Moreover, if there are any changes to individual lots, including amendments to lot boundaries,
the County’s policy is that the Declaration would no longer apply, and the property would need
to comply with the underlying zoning ordinances.

According to the County, the grandfathering analogy supports its position that the uses should be
limited to only those listed in the Declaration. The County Code provides that nonconforming
uses may not be enlarged or expanded. The Declaration, however, includes a provision allowing
commercial uses similar to those listed. (See Declaration, “C-I Land Use Regulations,” A.1.c)
Despite this language, it appears that the County would not allow similar commercial uses, but
only those specifically listed.

Although there has been increased development and growth in Summit County, there has been
little development at Silver Creek Junction. Mr. Mount’s parcels are undeveloped, and he has
sought opportunity to consolidate the lots to develop them for commercial uses allowed under
the Declaration. He has contacted potential buyers, promoting the property for commercial
development. Mr. Mount claims that potential buyers are discouraged when they discuss zoning
and development regulations with the County. 4 He also claims that he purchased the property
anticipating commercial development, but his plans and his investment have been stymied by the
County.

Jim Conway also owns parcels in Unit I. He constructed commercial-style buildings on his
parcels, but has not been able to find buyers. 5 He also claims that the County has discouraged
3
  This Opinion only concerns the properties located in Unit “I”, and not the other areas of the subdivision. Jim
Conway, a property owner in Unit I, stated that he believed that all lots had been sold.
4
  Mr. Mount states that a company recently expressed interest in a storage unit business on the parcels, but chose
another location. Mr. Mount believes that the company selected another site because of the County’s representations
concerning the Silver Creek area.
5
  Mr. Conway states that his property has been proposed for use as a fitness center, bicycle shop, and plant nursery.

Advisory Opinion – Mount/Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 6, 2011 Page 3 of 9
potential buyers. Both Mr. Conway and Mr. Mount contend that the County’s decision to
maintain the rural residential zoning for Unit I is unreasonable, and stifles development of the
area.

The original Declaration created a three-member “Committee of Architecture,” to oversee the
maintenance and construction of properties in Unit I. The members of the Committee were
selected by the Silver Creek Ranch Corporation, which was the original owner of the property. 6
The Committee was to approve plans for new construction, and was specifically authorized to
waive conditions and grant some exceptions, although it is not clear whether that authority
included approving uses not listed in the Declaration. 7 The Declaration named the original
members of the Committee, but it did not function for several years. In 2010, a group of
property owners proposed reorganizing the Committee, and submitted a list of candidates to the
property owners in Unit I. Three members, including Mr. Conway, were approved by the voters.
The County was notified that Committee had been reconstituted. The County acknowledges
receiving the notice, but it does not recognize the Committee as having any authority other than
as an advisory body.

Mr. Mount requested this Advisory Opinion to evaluate the nature and extent of the County’s
authority to regulate land uses within Unit I. Mr. Conway became aware of the Advisory
Opinion request, and submitted a letter explaining the reinstitution of the Committee of
Architecture, along with his own concerns about development of Silver Creek Estates.



                                                  Analysis
     I.          Since The Declaration Is Not a County Ordinance, it Does Not Legally Obligate
                 the County or Grant Vested Rights.

     A. The County Has Broad Authority to Regulate Land Uses.

The County may regulate land uses within Unit I, and is not legally obligated to abide by the
Declaration. Private property is subject to local government regulation. “It is established that an
owner of property holds it subject to zoning ordinances enacted pursuant to a [local
government’s] police power.” Western Land Equities v. City of Logan, 617 P.2d 388, 390 (Utah
1980); see also Smith Investment Co. v. Sandy City, 958 P.2d 245, 252 (Utah Ct. App. 1998).
Zoning ordinances “must be reasonably related to serving the public health, safety, or general
welfare.” Smith Investment, 958 P.2d at 252. An ordinance will be upheld as valid if it could
reasonably promote the public welfare. Id.



6
  See “Declarations of Reservations and Protective Covenants, Silver Creek Estates Unit ‘I’” by Silver Creek Ranch
Corporation, dated 25 February 1965, at ¶ A.1. The Declaration provides that the Corporation (or its successor
owners) could nominate members of the Committee.
7
  Id., Declaration at ¶ A.2-3. The Committee can approve exceptions if they do not detract from the appearance of
the premises, and are not detrimental to the public welfare.

Advisory Opinion – Mount/Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 6, 2011 Page 4 of 9
Local governments are given very broad discretion to make decisions regarding regulation of
land use. “If the validity of the legislative classification for zoning purposes be fairly debatable,
the legislative judgment must be allowed to control.” Id. (citation omitted). Zoning ordinances
restrain the use of land, interfere with planned development, and affect the value of land. These
impacts, however, do not invalidate the ordinance or entitle a property owner to compensation.
A local government is authorized to:

           regulate and restrain the use of private property when the health, safety, morals, or
           welfare of the public demands it; . . . the exercise of proper police regulations may
           to some extent prevent enjoyment or individual rights in property or cause
           inconvenience or loss to the owner, [but that] does not necessarily render the . . .
           law unconstitutional, for the reason that such laws are not considered as
           appropriating private property for a public use, but simply as regulating its use
           and enjoyment . . ..

Bountiful City v. DeLuca, 77 Utah 107, 120, 292 P. 194 (Utah 1930); see also Colman v. Utah
State Land Board, 795 P.2d 622, 627-28 (Utah 1990). Thus, even a significant impact on a
property’s value will not invalidate a zoning ordinance.

     B. The Declaration Itself Does Not Establish any Vested Rights to Develop, and the County
        Should Not “Recognize” the Declaration as Granting Development Rights.

The Declaration was created by the original property owner of Silver Creek Estates, and is
essentially a contract amongst the current property owners. “Restrictive covenants that run with
the land and encumber subdivision lots form a contract between subdivision property owners as a
whole and individual lot owners . . . .” Swenson v. Erickson, 200 UT 16, ¶ 11; 998 P.2d 807,
810-11. The County is not a party to that Declaration, and it has not been adopted or approved
through any official procedure. 8 Thus, the Declaration does not establish vested rights for any
property owner, and it does not legally obligate the County to adopt any particular zoning
scheme, or approve any type of development other than what is consistent with its zoning
regulations.

The County’s “recognition” of the Declaration as granting vested rights is troubling. The County
must follow its own ordinances. “A county is bound by the terms and standards of applicable
land use ordinances and shall comply with mandatory provisions of those ordinances.” UTAH
CODE ANN. § 17-27a-508(2). The County should therefore comply with its own ordinances, and
cannot ignore or modify them by administrative fiat. Restrictive covenants adopted by private
property owners cannot supersede the County’s authority. 9 The material submitted for this
Opinion indicates that the County’s staff unilaterally determined that the Declaration allows
commercial and industrial development in Unit I, even though the zoning ordinance regulates


8
  There are zoning mechanisms, such as a Planned Unit Development (PUD) or an overlay zone, which allow a local
government to adopt “tailor made” zoning ordinances incorporating restrictive covenants. These mechanisms would
thus obligate the locality, not by contract, but by ordinance.
9
  See Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 390.

Advisory Opinion – Mount/Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 6, 2011 Page 5 of 9
that area as residential.                 In effect, the County is improperly ignoring its own land use
ordinance. 10

If the County wants to recognize the uses listed in the Declaration, the County Council may
adopt them in the ordinances which regulate land use in Unit I. However, because the
Declaration’s language has not been adopted as an ordinance, the County is not entitled to treat
the Declaration as binding. This violates § 17-27a-508(2), discourages reliability and
consistency in land use regulation, and leads to the possibility that land uses for Unit I will be
determined on an ad hoc basis without regard for ordinances enacted by the County Council.
The County should not treat the Declaration as legally-binding, unless it adopts the listed uses as
part of a land use ordinance.

The County’s broad authority to regulate land uses must recognize vested rights in existing
development. If a property owner submits an application for development approval, and that
application complies with existing zoning ordinances, the property owner has a vested right to
proceed with that development. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-508(1)(a) Once a complete and
compliant application is submitted, the development must be approved. 11 However, a property
owner cannot claim vested rights in planned or anticipated development. See Western Land
Equities, 617 P.2d at 391. 12

The Declaration suggests possible plans for Unit I, but cannot grant vested rights, because it is
not a zoning ordinance and the County is not legally bound to recognize it. Instead, the
Declaration outlines acceptable uses and restricts some activities within Unit I. For example,
property owners may not raise livestock or undertake “noxious or offensive activities.” See
Declaration, “Land Use – General” ¶¶ 4 & 5. If a property owner’s use violates the Declaration,
other property owners may pursue an action to curb or eliminate the violating use. However, the
County’s zoning ordinances take precedence, so a property owner’s legal rights under the
Declaration must operate within the framework of those ordinances.

     II.         The Property Owners in Unit I may Amend the Declaration, and Select a
                 Committee to Administer it.

The property owners in Unit I have the right to amend the Declaration, and may also select a
Committee of Architecture to administer the Declaration. As was already discussed, the
Declaration is a type of CC&Rs for Unit I, and the property owners may amend its terms. See




10
   As is discussed more fully below, the County would be obligated to recognize any vested right from development
that has been initiated.
11
   A local government may deny the application if there is a compelling, countervailing public interest, or if an
ordinance change is pending when the application is submitted. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-508(1).
12
   See also Stucker v. Summit County, 870 P.2d 283, 287 (Utah Ct. App. 1994) (rejecting a claim of vested rights
when development had not been initiated, but was only anticipated).


Advisory Opinion – Mount/Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 6, 2011 Page 6 of 9
Declaration, “General Provisions.” 13 It stands to reason that a majority of the property owners
may also repeal the Declaration in its entirety. 14

The Committee of Architecture created by the Declaration was to be nominated by the Silver
Creek Ranch Corporation (or its successor). See Declaration, “Committee of Architecture,” ¶
A.1. The Silver Creek Ranch Corporation was dissolved in 1980, and apparently, no successor
corporation has been created. In the absence of a successor, the property owners could possibly
act to appoint a Committee, or the owners could amend the Declaration to provide that the
Committee be approved by a vote of the property owners. 15 However, the Declaration is not
binding upon the County, so the administration of the Declaration does not affect the County’s
authority. The owners may choose to continue the Declaration amongst themselves, insofar as it
would govern activity in Unit I under regulations imposed by the County.

The Declaration provides that the Committee of Architecture has authority to approve
applications, and it may allow reasonable deviations from the terms of the Declaration, or
approve uses similar to those listed. Declaration, “Committee of Architecture,” ¶ A.2. Since the
members of the Committee would also be property owners, they could initiate actions against
property owners who violate the Declaration. Id., “General Provisions.”

     III.        The County may be Estopped From Denying Development Applications on Some
                 of the Lots in Unit I.

It appears that since some property owners have acted in reliance on official representations
concerning uses in Unit I, the County may be estopped from denying applications for
commercial development on those parcels. A local government may be estopped from enforcing
its zoning ordinances if it has “committed an act or omission upon which [a] developer could
rely in good faith in making substantial changes in position or incurring extensive expenses.”
Utah County v. Young, 615 P.2d 1265, 1267 (Utah 1980); see also Stucker, 870 P.2d at 290.
Estoppel (also called zoning estoppel) recognizes a property owner’s rights and investment
interests if the circumstances call for fairness. “A court has discretion in the exercise of its
equitable powers and may deny injunctive relief against the violation of a zoning ordinance. If
the granting of an injunction [i.e., enforcement of zoning regulations] would be inconsistent with
basic principles of justice and equity, it may denied . . . .” 16 Young, 615 P.2d at 1267. If a
property owner has incurred expense based on reliance from the County’s representation that
commercial development is allowed, the County cannot deny an application for commercial
development.



13
   A majority of the owners in Unit I may change the terms of the Declaration.
14
   But see Swenson v. Erickson, 2007 UT 76, ¶ 11; 171 P.3d 423, 425 (Swenson II). Swenson II interpreted a
provision in a restrictive covenant, which is fairly similar to that of the Declaration. The Utah Supreme Court held
that the language allowed an amendment to the covenant only on the date in which the restrictions were
automatically renewed, which occurred every ten years.
15
   Another possibility is creating a business entity to serve as the successor owner of Silver Creek Estates.
16
   It should be remembered, however, that zoning estoppel may only be invoked if there are “exceptional
circumstances” which warrant estoppel. Utah County v. Baxter, 635 P.2d 61, 65.

Advisory Opinion – Mount/Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 6, 2011 Page 7 of 9
The County has stated officially that it recognizes the uses listed in the Declaration as “vested
rights.” There is evidence that County officials made this representation to its Planning
Commission in 2001. Thus, the County’s official position is that the commercial uses listed in
the Declaration are allowable. If a developer relied upon that statement, and incurred significant
expenses because of that reliance, the County should be estopped from denying that the listed
commercial uses are not allowed. Changes to the parcels within the subdivision would not
impact an owner’s vested rights under the estoppel doctrine, because those rights arise because of
a change in position due to reliance on the County’s representations, and would apply to any
configuration of the affected property.

The expenses must be more than merely purchasing property. “[S]omething beyond mere
ownership of the land is required before the doctrine of equitable estoppel will apply, and in most
cases the doctrine will not apply absent exceptional circumstances.” Stucker, 870 P.2d at 290.
Construction of commercial buildings and other related expenses may obligate the County to
approve commercial uses, despite the current zoning. 17 This obligation would arise because of
the expense, and the County could not deny a use, nor could it excuse itself because of alleged
technical noncompliance. 18 Although the Declaration does not bind the County, it may
nevertheless bind itself to the Declaration because of representations made by County officials.

The County argues that the Declaration should be treated in the same manner as a
nonconforming use, and intimates that the Declaration has been abandoned by non-use.
However, this argument should not apply, because the County has repeatedly committed to
recognizing the uses in the Declaration. In other words, the County cannot consistently state that
it recognizes the uses in the Declaration, while it simultaneously argues that the Declaration has
been abandoned through non-use. 19 If a developer incurs expenses in reliance of the County’s
representation, estoppel applies, and the County cannot claim that a right to develop was lost
through non-use.

                                                  Conclusion
The County may regulate land uses within Unit I, in the manner that it may regulate land uses in
other areas. The Declaration does not bind the County to recognize any uses or commit to any
land use plans. The County is obligated to follow its own ordinances, and County officials do not
have authority to ignore or modify ordinances without action from the County Council. The

17
   Mr. Conway reports that he constructed commercial buildings, but that the County discouraged potential buyers.
One of the proposed uses for his buildings was a bicycle shop. Retail shops are specifically listed in the Declaration
as a permitted use.
18
   For example, the County’s position is that any alteration in the subdivision plat (such as combining lots) negates
the Declaration. (This policy was not adopted by the County Council, but was imposed administratively). However,
if a developer relied upon the County’s representation, and incurred significant expenses, the County is bound to its
representations, despite any alteration to the plat.
19
   In addition, a nonconforming use theory does not logically apply, because nonconforming use status arises when a
use is established while allowed, but has subsequently become illegal due to a zoning change. In Silver Creek
Estates, very few uses have been established, so the nonconforming use analysis would not apply. The Declaration
itself is not a “land use,” but a list of uses permitted by the original land owners. Nonconforming use analysis would
not apply to potential uses, but only to those that have been established.

Advisory Opinion – Mount/Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 6, 2011 Page 8 of 9
County may adopt an ordinance which incorporates the language of the Declaration, but
otherwise, the County must obey its own zoning regulations.

Although the Declaration is not binding, the County may nevertheless be bound if property
owners make substantial changes or incur expenses in reliance on the County’s representations
that the uses listed in the Declaration are allowed. The County may be bound under the doctrine
of equitable estoppel, but only if property owners have made substantial changes. Mere
ownership of property is not sufficient, even if the owner plans or anticipates commercial
development.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Mount/Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 6, 2011 Page 9 of 9
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Bob Jasper, County Manager
              Summit County
              60 North Main
              Coalville, UT 84017

On this ___________ Day of December, 2011, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
