                     Advisory Opinion #168
                                   Parties: Kearns Improvement District
                                             Issued: June 30, 2016


                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                                                 Impact Fees



Kearns Improvement District's Draft Sewer Impact Fee and Draft Water Impact
Fee both substantially comply with the Impact Fees Act.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                           State of Utah
                           Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                           FRANCINE A. GIANI      BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX            Executive Director     Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                            ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:               Kearns Improvement District

        Local Government Entity:                     Kearns Improvement District

        Scope of Advisory Opinion:                   Early Review: Draft Water & Sewer
                                                     Impact Fee Facility Plan & Analysis

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:               June 30, 2016

        Opinion Authored By:                         Brent N. Bateman
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                                      ISSUE
        Early review of Kearns Improvement District’s draft Sewer & Water Impact Fees.



                                     SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        Kearns Improvement District’s draft Sewer Impact Fee and Water Impact Fee substantially
        comply with the Utah Impact Fees Act.



                                                    REVIEW
        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
        administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
        application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
        hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
        neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Keith J. Larsen, P.E. of Bowen Collins &
Associates Inc., on behalf of Kearns Improvement District on January 20, 2016. As a courtesy, a
copy of that request was sent to Ross Ford, Executive Director of the Utah Home Builders
Association, on January 21, 2016. No further submissions or objections were received by any
party.


                                                 EVIDENCE
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1. Kearns Improvement District’s Draft Water & Sewer Capital Facility Plan, dated January
        2016, and prepared by Bowen Collins & Associates Inc.
     2. Kearns Improvement District’s Draft Sewer Impact Fee Facility Plan, dated January
        2016, and prepared by Bowen Collins & Associates Inc.
     3. Kearns Improvement District’s Draft Sewer Impact Fee Analysis, dated June 2016, and
        prepared by Bowen Collins & Associates Inc.
     4. Kearns Improvement District’s Draft Water Impact Fee Facility Plan, dated January 2016,
        and prepared by Bowen Collins & Associates Inc.
     5. Kearns Improvement District’s Draft Water Impact Fee Analysis, dated June 2016, and
        prepared by Bowen Collins & Associates Inc.


                              INTRODUCTION: EARLY REVIEW OF IMPACT FEES
Kearns Improvement District (KID) intends to adopt new impact fees for both sewer and water
facilities. KID has requested that this Office review, prior to enactment of the fees, its Draft
Sewer and Water Impact Fee Facility Plans (IFFP) & Impact Fee Analyses (IFA), and opine
whether their impact fee documents comply with the Utah Impact Fees Act (Act). We undertake
this review in accordance with UTAH CODE § 13-43-205(1)(a)(iii).

Early review of an impact fee considers the documents and procedures that establish the fee.
Because the fees have not been collected or expended, this Advisory Opinion does not end the
inquiry into the fees’ legality. In time, as the fees are implemented, the parties should take
continual care to ensure that the impact fees comply with the Act.

Likewise, early review of an impact fee by the Property Rights Ombudsman is limited to a legal
review for compliance with the Act. No attempt is made to review the fees’ accounting and
engineering conclusions beyond a check for obvious errors and legal compliance. The
Ombudsman’s office has neither the capacity nor expertise to verify whether an impact fee meets
the standards of practice for those professions. In addition, all impact fees are based upon certain
data and future projections, such as projected new growth in an area or projected costs of needed

Advisory Opinion – Kearns Improvement District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 30, 2016 Page 2 of 6
facilities. The legal review undertaken here cannot verify the facts nor the accuracy of the
projections.


                                                  ANALYSIS
The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman has reviewed the Utah Impact Fees Act1 and
reviewed Kearns Improvement District’s draft Sewer Impact Fee and draft Water Impact Fee. We
find that the present drafts of Kearns Improvement District’s Draft Sewer Impact Fee and Water
Impact Fee substantially comply with the Impact Fee Act.2

All aspects of the Act have been considered, and every attempt has been made to apply the Act’s
requirements to KID’s impact fee documents. In the interest of efficiency, only a few of the many
considerations and examinations undertaken will be discussed herein.

I.         The Credit for User Fees Appropriately Provides a Credit against Future Bond
           Payments to New Users

KID’s Water IFA and Sewer IFA both set forth the maximum allowable impact fee that KID may
charge, using the procedures required by the Act. In addition, both IFAs provide and calculate a
credit, called Credit for User Fees, which must be provided to new users against the total impact
fee. The credit decreases over time. As the credit decreases, the maximum amount that can be
charged as an impact fee accordingly increases year-to-year. This credit is appropriate and
complies with the Impact Fees Act.

As explained in both IFAs, this credit arises from the fact that the KID has or will enter into
bonds to build some of its facilities. As a result of its building program, some existing
deficiencies will be cured, and the level of service for existing users will increase. However, the
Act prohibits using impact fees to cure existing deficiencies or to raise the level of service for
existing users. New users are paying for their level of service through impact fees. The bonds
that will be used to pay for these new facilities will be repaid through user fees. New users will
pay impact fees, AND will pay user fees after connecting to the system, thus paying off a portion
of the bonds. This essentially will require new users to pay impact fees for their own use, but
also pay towards curing existing deficiencies and raising the level of service for other users. This
is not permitted under the Act.

KID has extrapolated the portion of the future bond payments that new users will pay, but will
have already paid with impact fees, and created a credit against the impact fees. The impact fees
are discounted to the extent of those credits. Users that build earlier will, over time, pay more in
user fees, and thus pay more of the bond payments than users who build in the future. Thus, the


1
 The Impact Fees Act is found in Title 11, Chapter 36a of the Utah Code.
2
  This review process has included discussion with representatives of KID and with the preparer of the fees. Where
questions or concerns about compliance with the Act have arisen, those have been communicated to and discussed
with KID. As a result of these discussions, KID has revised its documents or provided answers to questions in an
attempt to resolve concerns and to receive an overall positive Advisory Opinion.
Advisory Opinion – Kearns Improvement District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 30, 2016 Page 3 of 6
later a user joins the system, the less that user pays towards the bond, and the less the credit.
Thus, the discount reduces every year and the maximum impact fee increases.

The Impact Fees Act requires KID to consider all revenue sources to finance the impacts on
system improvements, and to reduce its impact fees to the extent of those sources. UTAH CODE §
11-36a-302(2). This credit, and the resulting yearly increase in the maximum fee, comply with
this portion of the act and appropriately consider alternative means to pay for facilities.

II.        Impact Fees May be Used for the Planned Improvements to the Administrative and
           Shop Buildings

The KID IFFPs include impact fee charges for planned improvements to the shared
administrative and shop buildings. The planned improvements include curing numerous and
extensive existing deficiencies in the current buildings. This raises questions upon first reading
because impact fees may not be used to correct existing deficiencies. UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302.
In addition, the documents show a clear intent to raise the existing level of service for the
administrative and shop buildings.3 Impact fees cannot be used to raise the current level of
service for existing customers. Id.

Nevertheless, the KID IFFPs do not violate the Act here. KID is careful to exclude both the
existing deficiencies and the increase in the level of service from the impact fee calculation. Only
those improvements to the administration and shop buildings needed to bring new growth to the
proposed level of service are included in the fees. This is permitted under the Act. Only a very
small percentage of the total costs of the improvements to the administrative and shop buildings
are attributed to new growth and included in the impact fees. No fault could be found in these
calculations.

In addition, some question may exist regarding whether the administrative and shop buildings are
eligible for impact fees at all. According to the Act, public facilities eligible for impact fees
include “(a) water rights and water supply, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities; (b)
wastewater collection and treatment facilities.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(16). Although nothing
in these statutes directly indicates that administrative offices or equipment maintenance shops are
contemplated here, inclusion of those facilities in these definitions does not require a very
expansive reading of the statutory language. Thus, the administrative and shop buildings are
eligible under the Impact Fees Act.

III.       Equivalent Residential Units

KID’s impact fees are a factor of Equivalent Residential Units (ERUs). The KID IFFPs use
ERUs to calculate present and future levels of service, and the IFAs distribute impact fees using
ERUs. But, apart from a cursory definition of ERUs as “the demand that a typical single family
residence places on the system,” KID’s impact fee documents do not provide any further insight
into the value or nature of an ERU.


3
 The level of service for the Administrative and Shop Buildings are measured in terms of shop bays per ERU for the
Shop Buildings, and square feet of office space per ERU for the administrative building.
Advisory Opinion – Kearns Improvement District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 30, 2016 Page 4 of 6
Information about ERUs necessary to justify its calculations and ensure compliance with the Act
is instead found in KID’s Draft Water & Sewer Capital Facility Plan, dated January 2016. ERUs
are calculated therein as a function of historical consumption by the number of residential
connections. For example, a residential water ERU represents “monthly water production
summed and divided by the total number of residential connections.” Moreover, non-residential
ERUs, are “calculated by dividing the non-residential water production by the average residential
water demand.” The Capital Facility Plan then calculated the total number of ERUs by adding
the residential and non-residential ERUs.

This complies with the Act, although more thorough consideration of the many different
residential and non-residential use types, and the corresponding differences in usage, may
improve the calculation. Consideration of the differences between residential averages and non-
residential averages accounts for the greatest differences, and thus sufficiently enables
calculation of the impact fee. We recommend that more concrete reference be made to the
Capital Facility Plan in the IFFPs to these ERU calculations for ease of reference.

IV.        General Compliance with the Act

The Act requires that an Impact Fee Facilities Plan identify system improvements upon which
impact fees will be spent:

           A local political subdivision may expend impact fees only for a system improvement:
           (a) identified in the impact fee facilities plan; and
           (b) for the specific public facility type for which the fee was collected.

UTAH CODE § 11-36a-602. The KID IFFPs, throughout the documents, contain explicit and
sufficient identification of facilities upon which KID intends to spend impact fees.

The KID IFFP likewise correctly identifies and calculates existing and proposed levels of
service.4 Performance or demand upon a particular facility may be measured in multiple ways.
The KID IFFP makes a subtle distinction between performance standard and level of service.
The performance standard is the desired minimum level of performance for each component,
while the existing level of service is the actual current performance of the component. The
proposed level of service is the proposed actual performance of the component in the future.
Although this distinction is not found in the Act, it is useful in determining existing deficiencies,
which is in turn useful in identifying which portions of costs are attributable to new growth. In
any event, the KID impact fee calculations comply with the act in that they identify existing and
proposed levels of service.

                                                 CONCLUSION
The KID draft Sewer Impact Fee and draft Water Impact Fee substantially comply with the
Impact Fee Act. A reading of the documents shows that KID has reviewed the Impact Fee Act

4
  UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302(1) requires an IFFP to “identify the existing level of service,” and to “establish a
proposed level of service.” The Impact Fees Act defines “level of service” as “the defined performance standard or
unit of demand for each capital component of a public facility within a service area.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(11).
Advisory Opinion – Kearns Improvement District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 30, 2016 Page 5 of 6
carefully and has attempted to understand it and follow its requirements. To the extent that
question have arisen, KID has been very responsive in answering them and revising its
documents. There may be many ways to calculate an impact fee. Overall, KID has attempted to
do so carefully and conscientiously.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Kearns Improvement District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 30, 2016 Page 6 of 6
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:



                      Kearns Improvement District
                      Attn: Pamela Gill, General Manager
                      5350 West 5400 South
                      Kearns, Utah 84118


On this ___________ Day of _______, 2016, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
