                     Advisory Opinion #174
                         Parties: Sugarbowl Developers, LLC, Summit County
                                          Issued: November 9, 2016

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                                       Interpretation of Ordinances

The applicable ordinances do not prohibit single family structures. Summit County
has denied the developer’s application for single-family structures in order to
enforce a prohibition on permanent residential uses in the zone. However, single-
family structures easily fit the definition of Hotel/Lodging Uses, as described in the
zoning. Nothing in the plain language of the ordinance justifies denial of the
developer’s desired single-family structures in the zone. If the intent was to
prohibit single-family structures, the ordinance needs to plainly say so.

The County has clearly and plainly restricted permanent residences as a use
within the zone. Nevertheless, enforcement of that restriction by prohibiting single-
family structures is arbitrary. Permanent occupancy could be established in any
type of residential structure, including multi-family structures. The County should
approve the application for single-family structures, and find another method for
enforcing its restriction on permanent residences.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI      BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director     Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor



                                                 ADVISORY OPINION


        Advisory Opinion Requested By:                Bruce R. Baird, Esq.

        Local Government Entity:                      Summit County

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:              Sugarbowl Developers, LLC

        Type of Property:                             Residential Subdivision

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:                November 9, 2016

        Opinion Authored By:                          Brent N. Bateman
                                                      Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       ISSUE

        Did the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission correctly determine that stand-alone single-
        family structures do not comply with, and are not permitted within, the Hotel/Lodging Units
        zone?

                                         SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

        The applicable ordinances do not prohibit single family structures. The County has denied the
        developer’s application for single-family structures in order to enforce a prohibition on
        permanent residential uses in the zone. However, single-family structures easily fit the definition
        of Hotel/Lodging Uses, as described in the zoning. Nothing in the plain language of the
        ordinance justifies denial of the developer’s desired single-family structures in the zone. If the
        intent was to prohibit single-family structures, the ordinance needs to plainly say so.

        The County has clearly and plainly restricted permanent residences as a use within the zone.
        Nevertheless, enforcement of that restriction by prohibiting single-family structures is arbitrary.
        Permanent occupancy could be established in any type of residential structure, including multi-
        family structures. The County should approve the application for single-family structures, and
        find another method for enforcing its restriction on permanent residences.
                                                     REVIEW

A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Bruce R. Baird, on behalf of Sugarbowl
Developers, LLC on December 16, 2015. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to
Mr. Bob Jasper, County Manager, Summit County, 60 North Main, Coalville, Utah 84017.


                                                    EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Bruce R. Baird, on behalf of Sugarbowl
        Developers, LLC on December 16, 2015, with attachments.
     2. Supplemental information submitted by Mr. Bruce R. Baird, received March 31, 2016,
        with attachments.
     3. Letter submitted by David Thomas, Deputy Summit County Attorney on April 21, 2016,
        with attachments.
     4. Letter submitted by Mr. Baird on July 18, 2016.
     5. Letter submitted by Mr. Thomas on July 19, 2016.


                                                 BACKGROUND1

Sugarbowl Developers, LLC (Sugarbowl) is the owner and developer of a planned unit
development in Summit County, Utah, titled “The Vintage on the Strand” (Vintage). Vintage is
located at the Canyons Ski Area.

The zoning for the Vintage project is controlled by the Amended and Restated Development
Agreement for the Canyons Specially Planned Area (Development Agreement).2 The County and
several landowners entered into the Development Agreement in 1998, and the County adopted


1
  Both parties in this matter have provided very lengthy and detailed submissions. Nevertheless, the material facts do
not appear to be in significant dispute. Many of the facts are simply summarized herein.
2
  The Development Agreement controls the development of the entire Canyons Specially Planned Area, of which the
Vintage property is a very small part.
Advisory Opinion – Sugarbowl Developers, LLC
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 9, 2016 Page 2 of 9
the Amended and Restated Development Agreement by ordinance in 1999.3 Therein, the Vintage
property is and has been zoned “Hotel/Lodging Units.” The Development Agreement defines
“Hotel/Lodging Units” as “A unit which shall contain attributes of a hotel or facility established
for similar purposes and which shall be available for short term occupancy by the unit owner or
others.” The definition then lists several physical attributes of the Hotel/Lodging Units, including
for example a central reservation service, central access to the building, centralized parking, etc.

In addition, the Development Agreement includes and incorporates an appendix document
entitled Statement of Global Principles. This document sets guidelines and standards for the
Canyons SPA, including some that are applicable to uses within the Hotel/Lodging Units zone.

The development of the Vintage property has taken several years, and has included multiple
phases, discussions, plans, and reviews. All along, Sugarbowl has consistently and repeatedly
expressed its intent to develop single-family units on the property. Likewise, Summit County,
through the entire Vintage development process, has provided multiple and consistent
expressions of intent that the development conform to the Hotel/Lodging Unit zoning restriction.

In 2005, Phase 1 of Vintage (Vintage Phase 1) was approved and constructed. Vintage Phase 1
includes two single-family structures, along with several townhomes and multi-family structures.
During the review and approval of the Phase 1 plat, the single-family structures received
significant discussion by the County commissioners. The discussion addressed the concern that
the single-family structures in Phase 1 would become primary residences rather than hotel units.4

Sugarbowl’s clear intent to develop single-family structures, and the County’s clear intent to
require conformance with the Hotel/Lodging Units zone seems to have been reconciled in a
statement by the Deputy County Attorney that “the lodging units under the terms of the SPA do
not necessarily have to be hotel rooms.” The matter was then resolved and Vintage Phase 1 was
approved, including the single-family structures.

The final recorded Vintage Phase 1 plat shows ten lots in white, numbered 1-9a, representing
Phase 1. Each of those lots, except lot 9a, specifies the type of building that will appear on the
lot. Two of the lots, lot 5 and lot 8, are designated as single-family.5 The recorded Phase 1 plat
also shows an additional 15 building lots, shaded in gray, that do not appear to be part of Phase 1,
but are designated on the recorded plat as “Additional Lands.” These Additional Lands depict
specific locations, sizes, and dimensions of lots, but do not specify the types of buildings that
3
  The Summit County Board of Commissioners enacted Summit County Ordinance #333 on July 6, 1998, creating
the Canyons SPA. In that ordinance, the County stated that the “SPA Zone District will be implemented through an
appropriate form of a development agreement.” Later, on November 15, 1999, Summit County adopted Ordinance
#334-A, adopting the Amended and Restated Development Agreement. The parties do not dispute that the
Development Agreement controls the zoning and development of the property. See Save Beaver County v. Beaver
County, 2009 UT 8 ¶18 (recognizing the County’s intent to adopt a development agreement legislatively). Purely for
simplification, and without examination of the implications or propriety thereof, the Amended and Restated
Development Agreement for the Canyons SPA will be referred to as a zoning ordinance and interpreted as a typical
zoning ordinance. No effort will be made to separately interpret the Development Agreement as a contract.
4
  For example, the minutes indicate that Chair Richer stated “if the units approved at the Canyons turn into primary
residences, everything . . . is being done for nothing.” Further, County Planner Will Pratt stated that “the units are for
hotel lodging, even though they are residences.”
5
  Seven other lots are designated as either multi-family or townhouse. Lot 9a has no designation.
Advisory Opinion – Sugarbowl Developers, LLC
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 9, 2016 Page 3 of 9
will appear. A note was also added to the final plat, apparently intended to discourage use of the
structures as primary residences.6 The note reads in part:

           Based upon the primary purpose for which the project was approved, each owner
           hereby agrees and acknowledges that if he or she occupies his or her Dwelling
           within the Project as a full-time residence, then such Dwelling is not eligible for
           the primary residential tax exemption . . . and said Dwelling shall be assessed at
           the secondary residential tax rate.7

Sugarbowl claims that this note was later “found to be discriminatory.” The county refutes the
claim. The record is empty of any indication that the controversy was resolved or that any kind
of authoritative “finding” of discrimination was made.

Recently, Sugarbowl applied to complete Phase 38 of Vintage (Vintage Phase 3). Vintage Phase 3
covers the property designated in gray as “Additional Lands” on the Vintage Phase 1 plat.
Sugarbowl’s current Vintage Phase 3 application includes several single-family structures, and
these single-family structures are the primary source of this dispute. The Vintage Phase 3
application has received a negative recommendation from the Snyderville Basin Planning
Commission, who found that the single-family structures did not comply with the applicable
zoning for Hotel/Lodging Units. Sugarbowl believes that the single family structures comply
with the zoning and that the application is entitled to approval.


                                                     ANALYSIS

The Development Agreement does not expressly prohibit stand-alone single-family structures,
nor does it exclude them from being used as Hotel/Lodging Units. Accordingly, single-family
structures are permitted within the zone.


I.         Single-Family Unit as a Physical Structure or as a Land Use

Throughout the extensive materials provided, terms such as “single-family unit,” or “single-
family dwelling” are used interchangeably. However, the terms refer to two distinct concepts: (1)
a single-family unit as a physical structure --- a stand-alone building designed and constructed to
house a single family, rather than a duplex or multi-family structure, and (2) a “single-family
unit” as a use --- the use of any structure as a primary or permanent residence.9 The structure and
the use of the structure are distinct concepts. See generally Brown v. Sandy City Bd. of


6
  The staff report to the County Commission indicates that “The allowed use for the SPA is for Hotel/Lodging. In
order to ensure that these units meet the intended lodging use, staff suggests that language be added to the plat in the
form of a note and to the CCRs for the project clarifying that none of the units in the project are eligible for primary
residence status.”
7
  This note on the plat applies equally to all buildings shown on the plat – not just to the single-family structures.
8
  Vintage Phase 2, consisting of one multi-family structure, is also complete.
9
  In order to be clear throughout this Advisory Opinion, the physical structure will be referred to as a “single-family
structure,” and the use will be referred to as a “permanent residence.”
Advisory Opinion – Sugarbowl Developers, LLC
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 9, 2016 Page 4 of 9
Adjustment, 957 P.2d 207 (Ut App 1998). Existence of a structure in which a use can take place
does not necessarily control the use. See id. at 212, n.6.

This distinction is critical to this Advisory Opinion. Sugarbowl’s application seeks approval of
single-family structures. The zoning restrictions restrict use to transient temporary occupancy.
The County rejected the structures in an attempt to enforce the use restriction. Whether structures
and/or a uses are allowed or prohibited in Vintage Phase 3 is a question or ordinance
interpretation.

II.        The Rules of Ordinance Interpretation

Ordinance interpretation requires employment of the canons of statutory construction. Foutz v.
City of South Jordan, 2004 UT 75, ¶8. It always begins with an analysis of the plain language of
the ordinance. Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98 ¶30. The primary goal of interpretation
is “to give effect to the legislative intent, as evidenced by the plain language, in light of the
purpose the statute was meant to achieve.” Foutz, 2004 UT 75, ¶11. If the plain language of an
ordinance is sufficiently clear, the analysis ends there. General Construction & Development,
Inc. v. Peterson Plumbing Supply, 2011 UT 1, ¶ 8. (citations omitted).

Further, it is presumed that the legislative body used each word advisedly. Selman v. Box Elder
County, 2011 UT 18, ¶18. “In addition ‘statutory enactments are to be so construed as to render
all parts thereof relevant and meaningful, and . . . interpretations are to be avoided which render
some part of a provision nonsensical or absurd.’” Perrine v. Kennecott Mining Corp., 911 P.2d
1290, 1292 (Utah 1996) (quoting Millet v. Clark Clinic Corp., 609 P.2d 934, 936 (Utah 1980)).
Finally, “omissions in statutory language should be taken note of and given effect.” Biddle v.
Washington Terrace, 1999 UT 110, ¶14.

It is also important to recognize that zoning ordinances should be strictly construed in favor of
allowing a property owner’s desired use, since such ordinances are in derogation of an owner’s
use of land. Carrier 2004 UT 98 ¶31.

III.       The Development Agreement Does Not Prohibit Single-Family Structures

The Vintage Phase 3 parcel is zoned Hotel/Lodging Units. The Development Agreement provides
this definition:

           Hotel/Lodging Units means a unit which shall contain the attributes of a hotel
           of[sic] facility established for similar purposes and which shall be available for
           short term occupancy by the unit owner or others. Attributes shall include:
           -Central reservation service for all units, including central check-in with full-time
           front desk service, bellhops, and concierge, operated by the owner/operator, a
           property management company chosen by the owners association, or as a
           function of the owner’s association;
           -Central access to the building, with no private entrances for individual units or
           wings, except in structures which include up to but not to exceed four dwelling
           units, unless otherwise approved by the Director;

Advisory Opinion – Sugarbowl Developers, LLC
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 9, 2016 Page 5 of 9
           -Pedestrian traffic funneled through a central lobby area, except in structures
           which include up to but not to exceed four dwelling units, unless otherwise
           approved by the Director;
           -Centralized parking, with no assigned spaces, except in structures which include
           up to but not to exceed four dwelling units, unless otherwise approved by the
           Director;
           -Utilities centrally controlled, including cable television, telephone, electricity,
           gas, and water; and
           -Limited storage area for owners.

This definition places specific requirements and parameters on both the structures and uses
permitted in the Hotel/Lodging Unit zone. The majority of the parameters in this definition refer
to structure. However, some portions refer to use, such as “which shall be available for short
term occupancy by the unit owner or others.” Beyond these few parameters, the definition
restricts neither the design nor appearance of any structures. Moreover, this ordinance expressly
contemplates that some structures will have few units, often excepting “structures which include
up to but not to exceed four dwelling units.” A single family structure could easily comply with
the restrictions in this definition. Every parameter listed here is either excepted for smaller
structures, or could be incorporated into the physical building of a single-family structure.

In addition, the Statement of Global Principles also provides guidelines and regulations pertinent
to the Hotel/Lodging Units zone.10 This document pertains primarily to use, discussing the
principle of temporary lodging uses in the central area and restricting units in the development
from being occupied as permanent residences:



10
    The Statement of Global Principles is a lengthy appendix to the Canyons SPA Amended and Restated
Development Agreement, and addresses many topics, including accommodation types. The stated purpose of the
Statement of Global Principles is “to clarify and elaborate on community and resort development policies” and
resembles in many respects a general plan. Nevertheless, the Statement of Global Principles is part of the
Development Agreement, which has been adopted by ordinance and acts as the current zoning for the development
property. The Statement of Global Principles states that “No development shall be approved unless it is compatible
with the policies of the general plan and the principles set forth herein.”
The parties argue at length about the legal status of the Statement of General Principles. Sugarbowl argues that the
Statement is not a substantive regulation but is instead a “non-substantive preamble” and consists of hortatory
statements of policy, unenforceable under Price Development Company v. Orem City, 2000 UT 26. The County
argues that the Statement of Global Principles has been specifically and repeatedly incorporated into the
Development Agreement as substantive regulation.
It is unnecessary in this Advisory Opinion to decide the overall legal effect of the Statement of Global Principles.
Even if we consider it legally binding and enforceable, it does not prohibit construction of single-family residences
in Vintage Phase 3. Conversely, even if it is not law, the Statement of Global Principles is not nothing, and cannot be
dismissed wholesale. If it is only hortatory, it provides important interpretive guidance. “The effect to be given these
provisions is the same: they provide guidance to the reader as to how the act should be enforced and interpreted, but
they are not a substantive part of the statute. They may be used to clarify ambiguities, but they do not create [or
limit] rights.” Price ¶23.
The impression given upon review of the Statement of Global Principles is that it is somewhere in the middle. It
contains many hortatory statements, statements of policy, and interpretive guidelines. However, it also contains
numerous restrictions, objective parameters, administrative procedures, and many words that cannot be considered
hortatory like “shall” and “must.” Thus, the Statement of Global Principles cannot be categorized wholly as either
“policy” or “law.”
Advisory Opinion – Sugarbowl Developers, LLC
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 9, 2016 Page 6 of 9
           Units that shall be maintained and managed in a short-term rental
           arrangements[sic], where there shall be a required central check-in on or off-site,
           common maintenance and services provided for guests, and other similar features
           that will be defined prior to an SPA amendment, shall be considered resort and
           guest accommodations.

The Statement of Global Principles does contain some restrictions and requirements on
structures. However, no rule can be found in the document that prohibits the lodging units from
being single-family structures as stand-alone lodging units. At most, the document states:

           Typical units that can be considered a resort and guest accommodations [sic]
           include traditional hotel and lodging rooms and suites, and interval and timeshare
           ownership units.

Single-family structures can easily be, and often are, interval and timeshare ownership units.

It should be noted that the Statement of Global Principles may specifically prohibit single-family
structures in other zones, but even then not clearly: “Within the areas designated as resort
Support/Mountain Recreation within the General Plan, primary single family dwelling units are
not permitted.” Nevertheless, a clear restriction on single-family structures could have been
made in the area that includes Vintage Phase 3. However, nothing can be found that plainly does
so.

According to the rules of statutory construction, “omissions in statutory language should be
taken note of and given effect.” Biddle, 1999 UT 110, ¶14. Single family structures could have
been, but were not prohibited in the Hotel/Lodging Units zone, and are thus permitted. See
Brown, 957 P.2d at 211. See also Carrier 2004 UT 98 ¶31. Summit County has acknowledged
this, through previous approval of single-family structures on the Vintage Phase 1 plat.11 This is
consistent with the county attorney’s correct statement at the Vintage Phase 1 meeting that “the
lodging units under the terms of the SPA do not necessarily have to be hotel rooms.” Thus, by its
plain language, the development agreement does not prohibit single-family structures in the
Hotel/Lodging Units zone. The County must permit Sugarbowl’s desired single-family structures
that comply with the ordinance parameters.

IV.        The Development Agreement Restricts Permanent Residences as a Use

Likewise, the Development Agreement unambiguously and consistently mandates that the
structures in the Hotel/Lodging Units zone be used as temporary lodging and not as permanent
residences. The definition of Hotel/Lodging Units in the Development Agreement states that:
“Hotel/Lodging Units means a unit which shall contain the attributes of a hotel of[sic] facility
established for similar purposes and which shall be available for short term occupancy by the
11
   The County argues that it permitted single-family structures in Vintage Phase 1, not because they fit within the
zoning, but as a concession due to an error in the official Land Use and Zoning chart. Although that error does
appear on the zoning chart, absolutely no support can be found in the submissions of the parties that the single-
family structures were approved as a concession to that error. Rather, the great weight of the evidence, primarily the
statements of County officials in the minutes, indicates that single-family structures were permitted in Vintage Phase
1 because they could be used as Hotel/Lodging Units.
Advisory Opinion – Sugarbowl Developers, LLC
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 9, 2016 Page 7 of 9
unit owner or others.” (emphasis added). That definition is not ambiguous. It indicates (1) a
requirement (“shall”), (2) a duration (“available for short term occupancy”), and that (3) applies
to the owner of the property as well as to others. By its plain language it restricts permanent
residences as a use.

The restriction against permanent residences as a use is consistently discussed throughout the
documents provided, including in statements of general intent, in development guidelines, and in
specific building restrictions. The Statement of Global Principles states that

           For purposes of the Canyons SPA, “resort and guest accommodations” shall
           include those units in which all beds are occupied on a temporary short-term
           basis, and not occupied as full-time primary residential dwelling units.

These guidelines relate to use (permanent or temporary occupancy, primary or secondary
occupancy, full-time occupancy, etc.), rather than type of physical structure. The restrictions
regulate beds rather than buildings:

           [G]enerally no less than eighty percent (80%) of all beds established at any time
           in the Canyons Resort Center, (regardless of type, configuration, or location) shall
           be allocated to ‘resort and guest accommodations.’ . . . . Within the resort core, . . .
           the targeted bed allocation shall be at least ninety percent (90%) resort and guest
           accommodations. There shall be no more than 10% of the beds allocated to
           primary residential dwelling units in the Resort Core.

Note that this discusses beds “regardless of type, configuration, or location.” This contemplates
that the beds will appear in many types of structures. The phrase “regardless of type,
configuration, or location” must be given effect. “Statutory enactments are to be so construed as
to render all parts thereof relevant and meaningful.” Perrine, 911 P.2d at 1292. This paragraph
places no prohibition on the type of structure, but clearly delineates the use.12 Permanent
residences as a use are expressly and plainly restricted in the Hotel/Lodging Units zone.

 V.        Prohibiting Single-Family Structures to Enforce the Restriction on Permanent
           Residences is Arbitrary

In submitting a negative recommendation of the Vintage Phase 3 application, the Snyderville
Basin Planning Commission attempted to enforce the use restriction on permanent residences by
denying the single-family structures. However, single-family structures are not prohibited in the
ordinance, and must be allowed. Other means must be found to enforce the use restriction.

The restriction on permanent residences in the Development Agreements makes no distinction
between types of structure. The limitation requiring temporary occupancy applies equally to
single-family structures as it does to a duplex, townhome, or multi-unit structure. A large multi-
unit building may see its unit owners make permanent residence therein, in violation of the
restrictions, just as the owners of any other type of unit in any structure. Permanent residency in

12
  Even if this language, in particular the word unit, could be interpreted to apply to structures and not just uses, this
paragraph imposes a limitation on primary residential dwelling units, not a prohibition.
Advisory Opinion – Sugarbowl Developers, LLC
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 9, 2016 Page 8 of 9
a duplex may be less attractive to some than in a single-family structure, but not to others. It’s
equally possible to take permanent residence in a one-room condo. The restriction applies to all
types of units. Enforcement must also apply to all structures, not just single-family structures.
Thus, prohibiting single family structures in order to enforce the restriction on permanent
residences is arbitrary.

It is unknown how the County is to enforce the permanent resident restrictions. Documents
included with the submissions argue that any such restriction on occupancy, no matter how
achieved, would be discriminatory and/or illegal.13 The County should find another legal
enforcement avenue to restrict permanent occupancy of all structures, not just the single family
buildings.14


                                                 CONCLUSION

Single-family structures are not prohibited in Vintage Phase 3, and therefore should be approved.
The County’s restriction on the use of the properties as temporary lodging rather than permanent
residences should be enforced some other way rather than by denying single-family structures.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




13
   By no means should any inference arise that this Advisory Opinion or the Office of the Property Rights
Ombudsman agrees with these arguments.
14
   One additional major point of dispute between the parties concerns whether or not the doctrine of zoning estoppel
applies to this matter. Because this Advisory Opinion concludes that the governing regulations do not prohibit
single-family structures, it is not necessary to decide the zoning estoppel issue. Nevertheless, we note that the
arguments presented for zoning estoppel appear to support the right to develop the Vintage Phase 3, but do little to
support how to develop Vintage Phase 3, whether by single-family structures or any other configuration.
Advisory Opinion – Sugarbowl Developers, LLC
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 9, 2016 Page 9 of 9
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in UTAH CODE § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
