                   Advisory Opinion #108
                                Parties: Bret Barry and Weber County
                                        Issued: November 8, 2011

                                        TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      R(v): Other Topics (Interpretation of Ordinances)

The County’s Ordinances permit staff to act upon and grant requests for permitted
uses. The Landowners’ meat cutting and packaging operation is not simply
ancillary to an agricultural use. It is part of a larger hunting, cutting, and packing
business undertaken there and at other locations. The County’s Ordinance
expressly prohibits that type of agricultural industry and business.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   GREG BELL
Lieutenant Governor



                                           ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                Bret Barry

      Local Government Entity:                      Weber County

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:          Rulon Kent Jones

      Type of Property:                             Agricultural Lot

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                November 8, 2011

      Opinion Authored By:                          Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
                                                    Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                    Issues
      (1) Is a custom butchering and meat packing business a prohibited use in the County’s AV-3
      zone? and

      (2) Does the Weber County Code authorize the planning staff to serve as the land use authority in
      this matter?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
      The Weber County Ordinances permit staff to act upon and grant requests for permitted uses. The
      ordinance also permits ancillary agricultural uses such as meat cutting and packing in the AV-3
      zone. This is especially so in light of the maxim that ordinances are to be interpreted broadly to
      permit land uses, along with the limited deference that the County has to interpret its own
      ordinances. However, the Landowners’ meat cutting and packaging operation is not simply
      ancillary to an agricultural use at the Parcel. It is part of a larger hunting, cutting, and packing
      business undertaken at the Parcel and other locations. The Weber County Ordinance expressly
      prohibits the type of agricultural industry and business undertaken by the Landowners in the AV-
      3 Zone. Those considerations of interpretation and deference do not extend far enough to permit
      the type of agricultural business or industry that the Landowners have undertaken here.
                                               Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Jodi S. Hoffman, on behalf of Bret Barry,
on August 24, 2011. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Alan D. McEwan,
County Clerk/Auditor, for Weber County, at 2380 Washington Blvd, Suite 320, Ogden, Utah
84401. The return receipt was signed and delivered on September 7, 2011, indicating it had been
received by the County. A copy of the materials regarding the request was also sent to Mr. Rulon
Kent Jones, owner of the subject parcel, at 3985 North 3775 East, Liberty, Utah 84310. Mr. Jason
K. Nelsen, Attorney for Rulon Kent Jones, submitted a response to the Office of the Property
Rights Ombudsman on October 6, 2011, which included a copy of the Staff Report to the Weber
County Board of Adjustment, dated August 25, 2011 along with several other attachments. Mr.
Christopher F. Allred submitted a response on October 13, 2011. Ms. Hoffman submitted a
response on October 18, 2011 and October 19, 2011. Over the ensuing several weeks, all parties
sent multiple submissions, by email and regular mail, some with attachments and exhibits.

                                              Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Jodi S. Hoffman, on behalf of Brett
                 Barry, and received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, August 24,
                 2011.
     2.          Response submitted on behalf of Rulon Kent Jones by Jason K. Nelsen of Nelsen
                 Law Offices, P.C., dated October 5, 2011, and all attached documents.
     3.          Letter dated October 8, 2011 from Ms. Hoffman.
     4.          Response submitted on behalf of the County by Christopher F. Allred, Deputy Weber
                 County Attorney, dated October 11, 2011
     5.          Letter dated October 17, 2011 from Ms. Hoffman with attachments.
     6.          Letter dated October 27, 2011 from Mr. Allred.
     7.          Staff Report to the Weber County Board of Adjustment on the appeals of the Weber
                 County Planning Commission on its decision to issue a Land Use Permit, dated
                 August 25, 2011.
     8.          Letter dated November 3, 2011 from Mr. Nelsen.


Advisory Opinion – Brett Barry/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 8, 2011 – page 2 of 11 pages
                                                   Background
Richard Ralph and Rulon Kent Jones (“Landowners”) own a parcel located at 3788 E 4100 N in
Liberty, Weber County, Utah (the “Parcel”). The Parcel consists of approximately 6.15 acres and
lies within the Agricultural Valley-3 (AV-3) Zone. Next to the parcel is a cluster subdivision
known as, with irony that will soon be apparent, Elk Ridge Estates.

During June, 2011 a representative of the Landowners submitted a land use permit application
for the Parcel, which according to the County included a site plan and a written narrative
describing the subject property and the proposed land use. According to the County, the
Landowners proposed utilizing an existing 1200 sq.ft. building on the Parcel for meat cutting and
preparation. The Landowners indicated to the County, and continue to assert now, that the
building will only be used for cutting and preparing elk meat and no other game. 1 On June 27,
2011 staff at the Weber County Planning Division reviewed the land use permit application and
subsequently issued a land use permit. Since the permit was issued, the Landowners have
undertaken improvements of the building on the Parcel to facilitate the meat cutting operation,
and have apparently received a business license.

Bret Barry is a resident of the Elk Ridge Estates and, according to his attorney, lives less than
200 feet from the meat cutting building at the Parcel. He and several of his neighbors object to
Weber County’s approval of the land use application. Mr. Barry and/or his neighbors have made
timely appeal of that approval to the Weber County Board of Adjustment, claiming that the
permits were issued in violation of Weber County Code. Through his attorneys, Hoffman Law,
Mr. Barry has requested this Advisory Opinion to address two questions: (1) Is a custom
butchering and meat packing business a prohibited use in the County’s AV-3 zone? and (2) does
the Weber County Code authorize the planning staff to serve as the land use authority in this
matter? The County has agreed to postpone the Board of Adjustment appeal pending release of
the requested Advisory Opinion.


                                                   Analysis
I. Standard for Reviewing Land Use Decisions

In Fox v. Park City, 2008 UT 85, the Utah Supreme Court recently explained the standard of
review for land use decisions. A review of a decision by a land use authority “is limited to
whether a land use authority's decision is arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.” Id. at ¶11. See UTAH
CODE § 17-27a-801(3)(a)(ii). The Court goes on to explain that there are two parts to the
“arbitrary, capricious or illegal” analysis:


1
  The County indicates that they received no indication that any animal besides elk would be processed at the
property, and that there would be a limited number of carcasses (approximately 100) cut and prepared during the fall
months only. Further, the Landowners indicate that in an average week, only 6-8 elk carcasses are processed at the
facility, and that no more than 15 elk have been processed in a single week.

Advisory Opinion – Brett Barry/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 8, 2011 – page 3 of 11 pages
           First, a land use authority's decision is arbitrary or capricious only if it is not
           supported by substantial evidence in the record. A land use authority's decision is
           illegal if it violates a law, statute, or ordinance in effect at the time the decision
           was made.

Fox, 2008 UT 85 at ¶11 (citations omitted). Accordingly, a decision is not arbitrary and
capricious if it is supported by substantial evidence on the record. On the other hand, a decision
is illegal where it violates a law or ordinance in effect. Mr. Barry claims that the decision is
illegal because the permit was issued in violation of the Weber County Code.

Where a determination of illegality must be based upon the interpretation of an ordinance, the
standard of review is correctness. Fox, 2008 UT 85 at ¶11. Review of an ordinance interpretation
for correctness requires consideration of the principles of statutory interpretation. “In interpreting
the meaning of . . . [o]rdinance[s], we are guided by the standard rules of statutory construction.”
Brown v. Sandy City Bd. of Adjustment, 957 P.2d 207, 210 (Utah Ct. App. 1998). Interpretation of
an ordinance begins with the plain language of the ordinance, and a court is to “give effect to the
plain language unless the language is ambiguous.” Lovendahl v. Jordan School Dist., 2002 UT
130, ¶ 21; see also Mountain Ranch Estates v. Utah State Tax Comm’n, 2004 UT 86, ¶ 9. The
“primary goal . . . is to give effect to the legislative intent, as evidenced by the plain language, in
light of the purpose the statute was meant to achieve.” Foutz v. City of South Jordan, 2004 UT
75 ¶ 11. Statutes should be construed so that “all parts thereof [are] relevant and meaningful.”
Perrine v. Kennecott Mining Corp., 911 P.2d 1290, 1292 (Utah 1996). Furthermore, it must be
presumed “that each term included in the ordinance was used advisedly.” Carrier, 2004 UT 98,
¶30.

In addition, the Fox court explained, “we also afford some level of non-binding deference to the
interpretation advanced by the land use authority.” Fox, 2008 UT 85 at ¶11. However, this
deference must be tempered by the principle that land use provisions are to be construed in favor
of permitting the land use:

           [B]ecause zoning ordinances are in derogation of a property owner's common-law
           right to unrestricted use of his or her property, provisions therein restricting
           property uses should be strictly construed, and provisions permitting property
           uses should be liberally construed in favor of the property owner.

Rogers v. West Valley City, 2006 UT App 302, ¶15. Accordingly, land use ordinances allowing
uses should be liberally construed to allow the use, and ordinances restricting uses should be
narrowly construed. Moreover, this deference is further tempered by the principle that a local
government must follow the mandatory provisions of its own ordinance: “(2) A county is bound
by the terms and standards of applicable land use ordinances and shall comply with mandatory
provisions of those ordinances.” UTAH CODE § 17-27a-508(2). Accordingly, the local
jurisdiction, while given deference in interpreting its own ordinances, is not free to use that
deference to interpret a meaning contrary to the ordinances it creates.




Advisory Opinion – Brett Barry/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 8, 2011 – page 4 of 11 pages
II. The County Has Properly Interpreted Its Own Code to Permit Staff to Act as Land Use
Authority in This Matter

Barry objects to the decision by the County to grant the permit by arguing that staff was not the
land use authority authorized to make the decision. Under Utah law, the land use authority is “a
person, board, commission, agency, or other body designated by the local legislative body to act
upon a land use application.” UTAH CODE § 17-27a-103(27). Weber County Code Section 1.1
reads as follows:

           1.1 Short Title
           The Ordinance shall be known as the “Uniform Land Use Ordinance of Weber
           County, Utah.” The Township Planning Commissions are to be the Land Use
           Authority, with due responsibility to administer the Land Use Ordinance. Any
           appeals of the Land Use Authority will be heard by the Board of Adjustment as
           outlined in Chapter 29 of the Land Use Ordinance. Appeal of Conditional Use
           applications will be heard by the Board of County Commissioners.

By its plain language, this provision designates the township planning commissions as the land
use authority under the entire code. This designation complies with the statute and is effective.

Nevertheless, a County can designate more than one land use authority, assigning each to make
decisions on specific applications. See UTAH CODE § 17-27a-302(1)(c). Weber County argues
that Weber County Code Section 30.4 designates a different land use authority for issuing
permitted and conditional use permits:

           30-4 Land Use Permit Required
           In order to verify zoning requirements and setbacks for permitted or conditional
           uses, no structure, including agricultural structures, shall be constructed, changed
           in use, or altered, as provided or as restricted in the Weber County Zoning
           Ordinance, until and unless a Land Use Permit is approved and issued by the
           Planning Director or designee.

This ordinance says that a Land Use Permit for permitted or conditional uses shall be approved
and issued by the Planning Director or designee. Although this designation of the Planning
Director or designee as a land use authority could certainly be clearer, this designation suffices to
meet the definition in UTAH CODE § 17-27a-103(27). To the extent that those two ordinance
provisions conflict, the County’s interpretation designating the Planning Commission is the
general land use authority, while the Planning Director or designee is the specific land use
authority to issue permits for permitted uses, is reasonable. This interpretation is necessary in
order to make both ordinances relevant and meaningful. 2

Moreover, where land use permits for permitted uses are concerned, it is eminently reasonable
and good policy to delegate that responsibility to staff rather than to the Planning Commission.
2
 Statutes should be construed so that “all parts thereof [are] relevant and meaningful.” Perrine v. Kennecott Mining
Corp., 911 P.2d 1290, 1292 (Utah 1996).

Advisory Opinion – Brett Barry/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 8, 2011 – page 5 of 11 pages
Where a County has listed a particular use as a permitted use, the County has already indicated
that it desires that use in the zone, and will allow the use without conditions. In other words,
where an applicant for a permitted use submits an application, the only decision to be made is
whether that application complies with the ordinance in effect – not whether or not the use is
acceptable or should be allowed in the zone. The policy decision regarding that use has already
been made. To require a planning commission to review and decide on every application for a
permitted use is at best, a waste of time and resources, and at worst, a potential violation of the
County Land Use and Management Act, in that the policy decision regarding the use will be
made again and again despite the ordinance. The County, under its authority and limited
deference to interpret its own ordinances, has determined that the ordinance designates staff to
make such decisions. That interpretation has support in the language of the Weber County Code,
and is within the County’s discretion.

Barry further argues that, because he and his neighbors objected openly to the issuance of the
permit, that he raised a conflict regarding the permit. Therefore, according to Barry, the
following provision in the Weber County Code returns the decision to the Planning Commission:

           1-4 Conflict
           This Ordinance shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of covenants,
           agreements, or other ordinances or laws, but shall prevail notwithstanding such
           provisions which are less restrictive. Where a conflict exists between various
           provisions of this ordinance, the Planning Commission shall rule on which
           provision applies.

The County counters that if such a conflict exists, it is incumbent on the party raising the conflict
to appeal the conflict to the Planning Commission under this ordinance. This interpretation is
preferable to one where the Planning Commission is obligated to provide its interpretation sua
sponte whenever an interested party objects. It does not appear that, despite the clear action by
Barry and his neighbors to oppose the permit, that any party invoked this ordinance as the proper
forum to appeal or review of the decision. In any event, this ordinance cannot be read to
designate or change the designation of a land use authority under the ordinance. This section 1-4
states that the Planning Commission shall rule on which of two conflicting provisions apply. It
does not appoint the Planning Commission to act upon the application, as required by statute in
such a designation. Accordingly, this interpretation of the County’s ordinances is within the
County’s discretion, and meets the correctness standard.


III. The Agricultural Use of the Parcel Does not Comply with the Zoning Code

Mr. Barry further objects to the issuance of the permit on the basis that the meat cutting activities
on the Parcel are prohibited within the AV-3 zone. The County has interpreted its code to
determine that meat cutting is an ancillary and incidental use to agriculture as permitted in the
zone, and has issued the permit on that basis. There is ample justification in the language of the
code to support the County’s interpretation that general ancillary agricultural uses are permitted
within the AV-3 zone, which could include certain meat cutting activities. However, the specific


Advisory Opinion – Brett Barry/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 8, 2011 – page 6 of 11 pages
operation and activities of the Landowners goes beyond what is permitted in the zone. Even
when strictly construed, 3 the ordinance prohibits the elk meat cutting operation of the
Landowners as a prohibited agricultural industry or business.

The Weber County Zoning Ordinance not only lists agriculture as a permitted use, but designates
it as a preferred use in the AV-3 Zone.

           Agriculture is the preferred use in Agricultural Valley, AV-3. All agricultural
           operations shall be permitted at any time, including the operation of farm
           machinery and no agricultural use shall be subject to restriction because it
           interferes with other uses permitted in the zone.

Weber County Code section 5B-1A. The Ordinance states that, as part of that preferred use, “all
agricultural operations shall be permitted at any time” within the zone. Also, where agricultural
operations conflict with other uses in the zone, the agricultural activities shall not be restricted.

The Ordinance further defines “Agriculture” as:

           AGRICULTURE: Use of land for primarily farming and related purposes such as
           pastures, farms, dairies, horticulture, animal husbandry, and crop production, but
           not the keeping or raising of domestic pets, nor any agricultural industry or
           business such as fruit packing plants, fur farms, animal hospitals or similar uses.

Weber County Code section 1-6. Accordingly, any agricultural operations that fit this definition
are permitted in the AV-3 Zone at any time. As the County points out, animal husbandry is
included in the definition or agriculture. According to the Code, any animal husbandry activities
are permitted in the zone at any time, and shall not be restricted when they conflict with other
uses in the zone. Moreover, Section 5B-3 of the Code mentions the use of slaughterhouses in the
AV-3 zone. For the County to interpret “animal husbandry” to include ancillary activities such as
meat cutting is within its discretion. The definition of agriculture is quite broad, and contains
significant room for interpretation.

Barry notes correctly that elsewhere in the County ordinances meat cutting is listed as a
conditional use, but not so here, and should be considered prohibited on that basis. Although this
reasoning is sound, section 5B-1A states that “all agricultural operations shall be permitted at
any time” within the zone. That statement should be given meaning, and provides room to
include as permitted in the AV-3 Zone a wide variety of agricultural operations, even if they are
not specifically listed. Accordingly, the language in the Ordinance provides ample support for the
County’s interpretation that ancillary meat cutting is a permitted agricultural activity within the
AV-3 Zone.

However, other statements in the County ordinances should also be given meaning, such as the
remainder of the County’s definition of agriculture in section 1-6: “but not the keeping or raising
3
 As stated above, ordinances restricting land uses are to be strictly construed. Rogers v. West Valley City, 2006 UT
App 302, ¶15.

Advisory Opinion – Brett Barry/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 8, 2011 – page 7 of 11 pages
of domestic pets, nor any agricultural industry or business such as fruit packing plants, fur farms,
animal hospitals or similar uses.” Also, Weber County Code section 1-3 states that: “Specific
uses listed as Permitted or Conditional uses in a zone are allowed; uses not listed are not allowed
in that zone.” These must be read in concert with Weber County Code section 5B-1A and the
remainder of the Code. Ordinances should be construed so that “all parts thereof [are] relevant
and meaningful.” Perrine v. Kennecott Mining Corp., 911 P.2d 1290, 1292 (Utah 1996).

In order to make all parts of that ordinance relevant and meaningful, the restriction on
agricultural industry and businesses must be read to limit terms such as farming and animal
husbandry. Accordingly, although it may be reasonable to interpret terms like “animal
husbandry” to include ancillary farming activities such as meat cutting and packing, as the
County has done, that activity is prohibited if it is an agricultural industry or business such as
those listed. 4 The ordinance then lists the kind of agricultural industries and businesses that are
prohibited. Nevertheless, even under a narrow interpretation of this restriction, the restriction is
not limited to those industries or businesses listed – fruit packing plants, fur farms or animal
hospitals. The ordinance also restricts businesses similar to those listed – “or similar uses.”

The elk cutting and packing business at the Parcel is an agricultural business or industry
inescapably similar to those prohibited in the ordinance, and go well beyond meat cutting
ancillary to animal husbandry. The Landowners are in the business not just of selling livestock
produced on a farm, but of selling the opportunity to hunt an elk on private property, under a
guided hunt, and offering cutting and packaging services when an elk is successfully obtained. 5
The Landowners indicate that the elk are taken from the Landowners private herd located in the
Ogden Valley. 6 The property owners acknowledge that very few elk are kept on the Parcel, and
the vast majority of elk processed at the Parcel are obtained and killed elsewhere. The elk are
then brought to the parcel for processing. It does not appear that the Landowners are farming
domesticated elk as that term is defined in UTAH CODE § 4-39-102, 7 and processing that elk for
consumption on or off of the farm. Rather, the Landowners are offering for sale guided hunts of
wild elk on private lands, and processing and packing that elk meat as part of that business. This
is very similar to a business that permits customers to pick their own fruit on or off of the parcel,
and to bring it to the parcel for processing and packing. A fruit packing business or industry is
expressly excluded from the definition of agriculture in Weber County. The facility for cutting
and packing meat is quite similar to a fruit packing plant in this respect. The Landowners’
operation can also be said to be similar to a fur farm or animal hospital in multiple respects, such

4
  It seems clear from this definition, as well as many other provisions of the code, some of which are discussed later,
that the AV-3 zoning designation is intended for agricultural uses, but residential purposes are also of high import.
The agricultural uses, while permitted, are to be carried out on a scale more compatible with the residential uses.
5
  It appears that such hunts, at least in some circumstances, are guaranteed.
6
   It is presumed for purposes of this Advisory Opinion, but not conclusive, that those hunts are conducted
exclusively on land owned by Landowners but not on land owned by the public or others.
7
  The Domesticated Elk Act, UTAH CODE § 4-39-102 et seq., has strict rules and requirements that must be followed
in order to farm domesticated elk. The Act prohibits activities such as releasing domesticated elk into the wild and
requires certain procedures such as such as specific fencing, marking, and transportation requirements. The
information provided for this Advisory Opinion indicates that the Landowners’ activities are outside of the
requirements of the Domesticated Elk Act, which leads to the conclusion that the elk being processed at the Parcel
are not domesticated elk under the act, but instead are a private herd of wild elk.

Advisory Opinion – Brett Barry/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 8, 2011 – page 8 of 11 pages
as the animals that are no longer living are processed and stored at the facility. As an agricultural
industry or business similar to those listed, the elk cutting and packing activity is prohibited by
the Code.

The activities of the Landowners at the Parcel go well beyond meat cutting ancillary to farming
or animal husbandry. This is especially evident where the elk cutting business is processing wild
elk that are not raised or kept on the Parcel, but are obtained from wild areas.8 Moreover, if the
hunted elk are wild elk and not domesticated elk, whether found on the Landowners’ property or
otherwise, it is difficult to see how they can be said to be farmed or otherwise fit under a
definition or agriculture. Only Domesticated Elk are included in the Utah Code statutory
Definition of “Livestock.” See UTAH CODE § 4-1-8. Wild elk are not included. Accordingly, the
cutting and packing of wild elk obtained off of the Parcel would not be ancillary to the farming
operation at the Parcel, even if the Parcel was used to farm domesticated elk. In addition, it is
neither the size of the operation at the Parcel, nor the actual number of animals processed, nor
the actual level of noise or disturbance to the neighbors which takes the operation beyond cutting
and packing ancillary to farming. It is the use – an agricultural industry or business – that the
County has prohibited in its ordinances.

As the County points out, the Code does permit some agricultural industry or business. However,
a review of those ordinances further indicates that the Landowners’ activities are an industry or
business prohibited in the AV-3 Zone, even when viewed broadly. The AV-3 zone designation for
a parcel more than 5 acres in area (such as the Parcel) permits the following activities:

           5B-3 Permitted Uses Requiring Five (5) Ares Minimum Lot Area
           1. Dairy farm and milk processing and sale provided at least fifty (50) percent of
           milk processed and sold is produced on the premises.
           2. Farms devoted to the hatching, raising (including fattening as an incident to
           raising) of chickens, turkeys, or other fowl, rabbits, fish, frogs or beaver.
           3. Fruit and vegetable storage and packing plant for produce grown on premises.
           4. The keeping and raising of not more than ten (10) hogs more than sixteen (16)
           weeks old, provided that no person shall feed any such hog any market refuse,
           house refuse, garbage or offal other than that produced on the premises.
           5. The raising and grazing of horses, cattle, sheep or goats as part of a farming
           operation, including the supplementary or full feeding of such animals provided
           that such raising and grazing when conducted by a farmer in conjunction with any
           livestock feed yard, livestock sales or slaughter house shall:
                 1. not exceed a density of twenty-five (25) head per acre of used and;
                 2. be carried on during the period of September 15 through April 15 only;
                 3. be not closer than two hundred (200) feet to any dwelling, public or semi-
           public building on an adjoining parcel of land; and,
                 4. not include the erection of any permanent fences, corrals, chutes,
           structures or other buildings normally associated with a feeding operation

8
  Those elk are hunted, and therefore located presumably in wild areas. They certainly would not be hunted while
standing in a corral or pen.

Advisory Opinion – Brett Barry/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 8, 2011 – page 9 of 11 pages
The Landowners’ operation on the Parcel cannot be reconciled with the agricultural industries or
businesses permitted here. For example, milk processing and sale is permitted where no less than
50% of the milk is produced on the premises. Attempting the analogy, it appears undisputed that
more than 50% of the animals processed at the Parcel are produced away from the Parcel. It
seems unlikely that the County would place greater restrictions on the processing and sale of
milk than the processing and sale of elk meat.

Most importantly, however, is that this list is extraordinarily specific regarding the types of
animals that can be raised, and what businesses or industry can be undertaken with each type of
animal. The ordinance permits horses, cattle sheep, goats, hogs, chickens, turkeys, fowl, rabbits,
fish, frogs, and beaver. Permitted operations related to each of these animals are listed. 9 This
listing is specific and complete enough to include frogs and beaver. No provision or language can
be found to indicate that other animals not listed may be included or added. Even the phrase “or
other livestock” cannot be found. 10 When interpreting a statute, it must be presumed “that each
term included in the ordinance was used advisedly.” Carrier, 2004 UT 98, ¶30. Moreover, the
Weber County Code states that “Specific uses listed as Permitted or Conditional uses in a zone
are allowed; uses not listed are not allowed in that zone.” Weber County Code section 1-3. The
rules of ordinance interpretation compel the conclusion that only those specific agricultural
businesses or industries, related to those specifically listed animals only, are permitted. Elk, or an
agricultural business or industry related to elk, are not listed and therefore not permitted. 11

The important maxim from Rogers v. West Valley City, that zoning ordinances restricting
property uses should be strictly construed to permit the use, does not justify a complete
abandonment of the ordinance language or the principles of ordinance interpretation, and cannot
be stretched so far. Likewise, the deference given to the County to interpret its own ordinances –
“some level of non-binding deference” – is limited by, among other things, the statutory principle
that a local government must follow the mandatory provisions of its own ordinance. UTAH CODE
§ 17-27a-508(2). The ordinance language prohibiting agricultural industry or business and
excluding elk from the very specific and complete list of permitted agricultural businesses must
be given effect. An attempt to fit the Landowners’ elk cutting and packing business into this
definition, when so similar to the expressly restricted business, renders the plain language of the
ordinance, even when narrowly interpreted, ineffective and meaningless. Accordingly, neither a
narrow interpretation of the restrictions in this Ordinance, nor the County’s limited deference to
interpret its own ordinances, can permit the Landowners’ elk processing and packing business in
the zone.




9
  The code mentions, and presumably therefore permits, slaughter houses but only in conjunction with horses, cattle,
sheep, or goats.
10
   Not even state law provisions that add domesticated elk to a definition or livestock can add to the local ordinance
that so specifically lists the types of animals the word livestock refers to or businesses that can be undertaken on a
parcel with those specific animals.
11
   It appears for the same reasons that even general farming of domesticated elk may be prohibited in the AV-3 Zone.

Advisory Opinion – Brett Barry/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 8, 2011 – page 10 of 11 pages
                                              Conclusion

Ordinance language is readily found to support the County’s interpretation of its own ordinance
that County staff is the land use authority to issue permits for permitted uses in the zone, and that
meat cutting ancillary to farming is permitted in the AV-3 Zone. The County’s interpretation of
those ordinances is correct, and accordingly not illegal. However, the County ordinance
language, as it presently stands, prohibits certain agricultural industry or business in the AV-3
Zone. The business undertaken by the Landowners, guided hunting with cutting and processing
wild elk obtained off the lot, is inescapably of that type and prohibited in the zone.



Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Brett Barry/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 8, 2011 – page 11 of 11 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Alan D. McEwan, County Clerk/Auditor
              Weber County
              2380 Washington Blvd, Suite 320
              Ogden, Utah 84401

On this ___________ Day of November, 2011, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
