                     Advisory Opinion #169
                          Parties: K. Marie Taylor, Salt Lake City Corporation
                                             Issued: July 14, 2016

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                                           Nonconforming Uses
                                       Interpretation of Ordinances

The property owner did not abandon its right to a legal nonconforming 24-bed
rooming house. Under Utah Law a party may establish a rebuttable presumption
of abandonment of a nonconforming use by establishing that the structure
associated with the use has been vacant for a year. The neighbors requesting this
advisory opinion provided sufficient evidence to establish this presumption.

However, once a presumption of abandonment has been established, a property
owner may rebut the presumption by presenting factual evidence that he or she
engaged in conduct evincing intent not to abandon the use. The property owner
presented such evidence, and has therefore overcome the presumption of
abandonment and preserved its right to a legal nonconforming 24-bed rooming
house.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI     BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director    Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor


                                             ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:               K. Marie Taylor

        Local Government Entity:                     Salt Lake City Corporation

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:             Lake Fox Investments, LLC

        Type of Property:                            Residential

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:               July 14, 2016

        Opinion Authored By:                         Jordan S. Cullimore
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                      ISSUE
        Did Lake Fox Investments, LLC abandon its nonconforming right to a 24-bed rooming house
        when it discontinued the use and left the primary structure associated with the use vacant for
        more than a year?

                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        Lake Fox Investments, LLC has not abandoned its right to a legal nonconforming 24-bed
        rooming house. Under Utah Law a party may establish a rebuttable presumption of abandonment
        of a nonconforming use by establishing that a use has been discontinued for a period of a year or
        more, or by showing that the structure associated with the use has been left vacant for a year. The
        neighbors requesting this advisory opinion provided sufficient evidence to establish this
        presumption.

        However, once a presumption of abandonment has been established, a property owner may rebut
        the presumption by presenting factual evidence that he or she engaged in conduct evincing intent
        not to abandon the use. Lake Fox has presented such evidence, and has therefore overcome the
        presumption of abandonment and preserved its right to a legal nonconforming 24-bed rooming
        house.
                                            REVIEW
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Marie Taylor, on April 28, 2016. A copy
of that request was sent via certified mail to Cindi Mansell, Salt Lake City Recorder, 451 South
State Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111.

                                           EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for Advisory Opinion, with attachments and subsequent email submissions,
        submitted by K. Marie Taylor between April 28, 2016 and June 10, 2016.
     2. Response from J. Craig Smith, on behalf of Lake Fox Investments, LLC and its owner,
        Thomas A. Fox, received June 27, 2016.

                                          BACKGROUND
The Ivy House is a 24-unit legal nonconforming rooming house located at 1076 East 200 South
in Salt Lake City. According to the materials submitted, the rooming house was constructed in
the 1960s and housed tenants until sometime prior to November 2013. In 1995, Salt Lake City
(the “City”) rezoned the property to prohibit rooming houses, rendering the use a legal
nonconforming use. In both 1994 and 2000 the City issued zoning certificates verifying that the
use of the property as a 24-unit rooming house was legal.

On July 16, 2013 the City issued an administrative interpretation to Marion Willey of Ivory
House, presumably in anticipation of selling the property. The administrative interpretation
found that because of the existing nonconforming right to the 24-unit density, the property could
be legally converted from a 24-unit boarding house to a 24-unit multifamily dwelling. The
interpretation concluded that “[t]he new use will be a conforming use that is noncomplying with
respect to minimum lot area requirements (density) and off-street parking requirements.”
PLNZAD2013-00451 Administrative Interpretation Letter, July 16, 2013. This decision was
never appealed.

The current property owner, Lake Fox Investments, LLC, run by Thomas A. Fox, (collectively
“Lake Fox”) obtained the property on October 15, 2014, and in December 2013 began

Advisory Opinion – K. Marie Taylor
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 14, 2016 Page 2 of 7
developing a plan to renovate the structure to become a 20-unit multi-family dwelling.1 Because
of factors related to the condition of the building, Lake Fox decided to not house tenants in the
building until after the renovations were completed. The submitted materials list in detail various
services performed for the project by designers, engineers, and contractors ranging from October
2013 until the time this request for Advisory Opinion was submitted to the Ombudsman’s Office.
For much of this time, the building sat vacant, although minor demolition, cleanup, and repairs
were performed periodically. Much of the activity conducted relative to the renovation project
during this period included off-site design, inspection, and financing activities.

Also from November 2013 to present, residents in the surrounding neighborhood observed that
the building sat vacant, was in disrepair, and attracted undesirable activities. Consequently, the
residents approached the City with the assertion that the boarding house use had been
abandoned. The residents assert that since the property has sat vacant for more than a year and
the use has been discontinued for the same period the nonconforming right to a 24-unit boarding
house has been abandoned and any future use of the property must comply with current zoning
requirements related to density, parking, etc., which would not allow the project to be completed
at the 20-unit density.

In response to the residents’ request for a determination of abandonment, Joel Paterson, Salt
Lake City Zoning Administrator, issued a decision on February 29, 2016 that the nonconforming
right to the boarding house had not been abandoned because “[t]he property owner has been
involved in a continual process leading toward the proposed change in use from the
nonconforming rooming house to a multi-family dwelling.” Email from Joel Patterson dated
February 29, 2016 RE: 1076 E 200 South permit status. Residents Joy Emory and Patrick Watson
timely appealed this decision on March 9, 2016. Another resident, K. Marie Taylor, submitted to
our office a request for an Advisory Opinion on the question of whether Lake Fox has in fact
abandoned its legal nonconforming right to a 24-unit boarding house.

                                                   ANALYSIS
A legal nonconforming use is defined as a legally established use that has subsequently become
illegal because of a change in the zoning ordinance governing the property. See UTAH CODE §
10-9a-103(33). The neighbors involved in this request for Advisory Opinion do not dispute Lake
Fox possessed a nonconforming right to a 24-unit boarding house when it purchased the
property. Instead, the neighbors assert that Lake Fox abandoned its legal nonconforming right to
the use when it left the boarding house vacant and discontinued the use from November 2013 to
the present to pursue renovations and a change of use. We must therefore determine what
constitutes abandonment, and whether Lake Fox in fact abandoned its right to a legal
nonconforming use, resulting in termination of the right.

I.         The Rebuttable Presumption Standard of Abandonment under Utah Law

Utah law contains a “rebuttable presumption standard” for determining abandonment of a
nonconforming use. Rogers v. West Valley City, 2006 UT App 302 ¶ 19, 142 P.3d 554. Under this
1
 At some point in the project’s planning stages, the number of units was reduced from 24 units to 20 units by mutual
agreement between the City and Lake Fox.
Advisory Opinion – K. Marie Taylor
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 14, 2016 Page 3 of 7
standard “[a]ny party claiming that a nonconforming use has been abandoned shall have the
burden of establishing” that abandonment of the use has occurred. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-
511(4)(b). A party may create a presumption that a particular use has been abandoned by
presenting evidence that any one of three statutorily articulated events has occurred. Utah Code §
10-9a0511(c) states that abandonment of a nonconforming right may be presumed to have
occurred if:

     (i)         a majority of the primary structure associated with the nonconforming use has been
                 voluntarily demolished without prior written agreement with the municipality
                 regarding an extension of the nonconforming use;
     (ii)        the use has been discontinued for a minimum of one year; or
     (iii)       the primary structure associated with the nonconforming use remains vacant for a
                 period of one year.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-511(4)(c). Once the party claiming abandonment shows that one of these
events has occurred, abandonment is presumed and the burden of proof shifts to the owner of the
nonconforming use to rebut the presumption2 by showing that abandonment “has not in fact
occurred.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-511(4)(d) (emphasis added). Thus the property owner must
present factual evidence that, despite the occurrence of one of the events mentioned above, he or
she has not abandoned the nonconforming use.

The neighbors have presented evidence, and Lake Fox does not contend, that the use has been
discontinued for a year and that the structure has remained vacant for the same period of time.
Consequently, we conclude that the neighbors have met their burden of establishing a
presumption of abandonment. The burden therefore shifts to Lake Fox to show that it has not in
fact abandoned the use.

The parties in this matter disagree about what evidence a property owner may present to
successfully rebut a presumption of abandonment. Lake Fox asserts that it may rebut the
presumption by showing evidence that it has not abandoned the use because it has engaged in on-
and off-site activities evidencing intent to preserve the nonconforming use, and that such
evidence is determinative. This argument comports with the common law rule of abandonment
followed by several states, which holds that “a nonconforming use can be abandoned only by
acts or omissions indicating an intent to abandon.” Salkin, Patricia E., American Law of Zoning,
5th Ed. § 12:22.

Conversely, the neighbors claiming that Lake Fox has lost its nonconforming right assert that
intent is not a factor in determining whether a use has been abandoned, and that a showing of
intent not to abandon does not rebut the presumption of abandonment. The neighbors argue that
once a presumption of abandonment has been established the only way to rebut the presumption
is to show that the events establishing the presumption did not occur for the prescribed period, or
that the abandonment period was somehow tolled. The neighbors support their argument by
referring to the prior version of the Salt Lake City Code provision governing abandonment of

2
 A “rebuttable presumption” is defined as “[a]n inference drawn from certain facts that establish a prima facie case,
which may be overcome by the introduction of contrary evidence.” Rebuttable presumption, Black’s Law Dictionary
(10th ed. 2014).
Advisory Opinion – K. Marie Taylor
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 14, 2016 Page 4 of 7
nonconforming uses, which specifically allowed the consideration of intent. They argue that
since intent is not specifically referred to in the City Code provision passed in November 2013,
the intent of the City Council was to remove intent from consideration.

This argument aligns with the discontinuance view of abandonment followed by several states,
which holds that “intent is irrelevant…and nonuse for the specified period will result in
termination of the nonconforming use.” Id.

II.        Interpretation of Abandonment under Utah Code § 10-9a-511(4)

While Utah courts have not expressly addressed the question of which of the above rules is
followed by current Utah law governing abandonment of nonconforming uses, we conclude that
Utah follows the common law rule of abandonment. Accordingly, a property owner may present
factual evidence of conduct showing intent not to abandon a nonconforming use to rebut a
presumption of abandonment. This conclusion is supported by a proper interpretation of Utah
Code § 10-9a-511(4), which is the statute authorizing local governments to terminate a
nonconforming use as a result of abandonment.

When interpreting a statute, we begin with an analysis of the plain language of the law. Carrier
2004 UT 98 ¶ 30, 104 P.3d 1208. The primary goal of interpretation is “to give effect to the
legislative intent, as evidenced by the plain language, in light of the purpose the statute was
meant to achieve.” Foutz, 2004 UT 75, ¶ 11, 100 P.3d 1171 (emphasis added). It is presumed that
the legislature used each word advisedly and read each term according to its ordinary and
accepted meaning. Selman v. Box Elder County, 2011 UT 18, ¶ 18, 251 P.3d 804. “When the
plain meaning of the statute can be discerned from its language, no other interpretive tools are
needed.” Id.

Utah Code § 10-9a-511(4) sets the parameters in which municipalities may operate when
handling abandonment of nonconforming uses. This statute uses the term, “abandonment,” but
does not provide a specific definition of the term. Consequently, the ordinary meaning of the
term, read in conjunction with the statute, should be used to determine what fully constitutes
abandonment. The Merriam-Webster dictionary defines “abandon” as “to give up with the intent
of never again claiming a right or interest in.”3 Abandon, Merriam-Webster Dictionary,
http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/abandon. This definition clarifies that the term
includes an element of intent.

Since the statute does not specifically exclude intent from the definition of abandonment, it is
appropriate, even necessary, to consider evidence of intent when determining whether a property
owner has in fact abandoned a nonconforming use. While discontinuance of a use for a period of
a year or more establishes a rebuttable presumption of abandonment, a property owner may rebut
this presumption by presenting evidence that he or she has engaged in conduct evincing intent to
not abandon the use. If the evidence shows a lack of intent to give up the right, then
abandonment has not in fact occurred.


3
  See also Abandon, Black’s Law Dictionary (10th ed. 2014) (defining “abandon” as, “[t]o relinquish or give up with
the intention of never again reclaiming one’s right or interest in.”).
Advisory Opinion – K. Marie Taylor
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 14, 2016 Page 5 of 7
This same reasoning applies to the City’s ordinance governing abandonment of nonconforming
uses. While Salt Lake City Code § 21A.38.040(F) describes in greater detail than the state law
from which it derives authority how to calculate discontinuance when establishing a presumption
of abandonment, it, like the state statute, does not specifically define abandonment to exclude or
include an element of intent. Therefore, the ordinary meaning of the term should be used, leading
to the same conclusion.

III.       Lake Fox has not Abandoned Its Legal Nonconforming Use

Applying the above standard to the present matter, we conclude that Lake Fox, in the materials
submitted to our office, has presented sufficient evidence to rebut the presumption that it has
abandoned its nonconforming right to a 24-bed rooming house. Lake Fox’s conduct since
November 2013 clearly constitutes evidence of an intent to maintain its right to a nonconforming
use of the property. The submitted materials show that Lake Fox has engaged in development
activity in the form of design, engineering, or renovation work at least every 180 days since
November 2013. There was an 8 month period of time in which Lake Fox was negotiating details
of the plan with the City. Additionally, Lake Fox has taken reasonable steps to maintain
applicable permits or renew them as necessary.

The neighbors assert that after the use was discontinued an “abandonment clock” started running
in November 2013 when the City passed an ordinance amendment updating the City Code to
adopt the rebuttable presumption standard in state law. As part of this assertion, the neighbors
contend that Lake Fox allowed permits to expire more than a year after the clock had started
running, and that the expiration of the permits caused Lake Fox to lose its nonconforming right
to the use.

Lake Fox and the City assert that Lake Fox never allowed applicable permits to expire in
accordance with City policies. Regardless, under the rebuttable presumption standard expired
permits do not in and of themselves constitute dispositive evidence of abandonment. Once a
presumption of abandonment has been established, an expired permit followed by a year or more
of complete inactivity would likely lead to a finding of abandonment. However, that is not the
case here. Since November 2013 Lake Fox has taken steps to preserve its nonconforming right
through acts evincing intent to preserve its nonconforming use.

                                          CONCLUSION
We conclude that Lake Fox has not abandoned its right to a legal nonconforming 24-bed rooming
house. Under Utah Law a party may establish a rebuttable presumption of abandonment of a
nonconforming use by establishing that a use has been discontinued for a period of a year or
more, or by showing that the structure associated with the use has been left vacant for a year. The
neighbors requesting this advisory opinion provided sufficient evidence to establish this
presumption.

However, once a presumption of abandonment has been established, a property owner may rebut
the presumption by presenting factual evidence that he or she engaged in conduct evincing intent
not to abandon the use. Lake Fox has presented such evidence, and has therefore overcome the

Advisory Opinion – K. Marie Taylor
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 14, 2016 Page 6 of 7
presumption of abandonment and preserved its right to a legal nonconforming 24-bed rooming
house.

Since we conclude that Lake Fox has presented sufficient evidence to show that it has not
abandoned its right to a nonconforming use, it is not necessary to address additional arguments
presented by the parties regarding vested rights and estoppel, since these arguments will not have
bearing on the outcome of the opinion in light of the conclusions above.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – K. Marie Taylor
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 14, 2016 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:



                      Cindi Mansell, City Recorder
                      Salt Lake City
                      451 So. State Street, RM 415
                      Salt Lake City, UT 84114-5515


On this ___________ Day of _______, 2016, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
