                   Advisory Opinion #107
                     Parties: United Park City Mines Company and Park City
                                        Issued: October 27, 2011

                                          TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      E: Entitlement to Application Approval (Vesting)
                      G: Proceeding With Reasonable Diligence
                      R(viii): Other Topics (Appealing Land Use Decisions)

Given the policies underlying the land use process, a time limit for a developer to
complete a required condition ought to be tolled during the pendency of an appeal,
when it is equitable to do so. This equitable tolling time mitigates the potential
injuries a developer may face due to an appeal, while upholding the importance of
the appellate process. Tolling should not be unreasonably withheld when
appropriate, but should also not be granted to simply excuse inactivity by a
developer.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                        State of Utah
                        Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                        OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   GREG BELL
Lieutenant Governor




                                         ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                United Park City Mines Company

      Local Government Entity:                      Park City

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:          United Park City Mines Company

      Project:                                      Residential Subdivision

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                October 27, 2011

      Opinion Authored By:                          Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney, Office of the Property
                                                    Rights Ombudsman

                                                    Issues
      Does a pending appeal of a land use approval toll a period in which a property owner is required
      to record a subdivision plat?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
      Given the policies underlying the land use process, Utah laws, and Utah cases, this Opinion
      concludes that a time limit for a developer to complete a required condition ought to be tolled
      during the pendency of an appeal, when it is equitable to do so. This equitable tolling time
      mitigates the potential injuries a developer may face due to an appeal, while upholding the
      importance of the appellate process. Tolling should not be unreasonably withheld when
      appropriate, but should also not be granted to simply excuse inactivity by a developer.

                                                   Review
      A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
      decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-
      205. The opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
      remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or
      other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such
      a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

A request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Christie Babalis, attorney for United Park
City Mines, on June 2, 2011. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Janet M. Scott,
City Recorder of Park City. A certified mail receipt, indicating that the City received the letter,
was delivered to the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman on June 7, 2011.

                                                       Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

      1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, including attachments, from United Park City
                  Mines filed June 2, 2011 with the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman.
      2.          Response from Park City, submitted by Polly Samuels McLean, Assistant City
                  Attorney, received September 26, 2011.

      NOTE: A group of neighboring property owners, who were involved in the appeal of the
      subdivision approval discussed in this Opinion, were also informed of the Request for
      Advisory Opinion. A representative submitted an email to the Office of the Property Rights
      Ombudsman stating that the group agreed with the City’s Response.

                                                      Background
On November 6, 2008, the United Park City Mines Company (UPCM) obtained approval for a
subdivision plat, located at 100 Marsac Avenue in Park City. Shortly after the City approved the
plat, a group of neighboring property owners appealed the decision by filing a suit in the Third
District Court. 1 That appeal was dismissed, and the litigation was concluded on August 13,
2009.

UPCM’s proposed development was for a ten-lot subdivision on a 2.7 acre parcel, allowing ten
single-family residences. The zoning for the area was “HR-1,” (Historic Residential), which
allowed single family homes. UPCM proposed that its subdivision would provide affordable
housing, and the project was titled the “Marsac Avenue Affordable Housing Subdivision.” The
final approval included several conditions, including preservation of historic walls, deed
restrictions to protect open spaces, and development of a pedestrian sidewalk and street crossing.



1
  The appeal was filed on December 8, 2008, and challenged the approval process, claiming that the City did not
follow its own ordinances, and did not follow proper notice and hearing requirements. In addition, the appellants
objected to the City approving use of a private drive (belonging to the appellants) as a secondary emergency access
for the new subdivision. After briefing and oral argument, the District Court dismissed the appeal in the summer of
2009.


Advisory Opinion – United Park City Mines/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 27, 2011 – page 2 of 13 pages
One of the conditions placed on the subdivision approval required that the subdivision plat be
recorded within one year after approval. If the plat was not recorded within one year, it would be
voided, and the property owner would need to reapply for a subdivision. Based on that condition,
therefore, the plat should have been recorded before November 6, 2009. That condition did not
specifically provide for an extension of the time to record, but evidently the City would consider
a request for an extension. 2

While the appeal of the subdivision approval was pending, UPCM did not record the subdivision
plat. On November 17, 2009, UPCM requested an extension of the recording deadline. The City
maintains that the deadline had passed on November 6, and the company argues that the appeal
tolled, or temporarily stopped the one-year period from running. According to UPCM, since the
appeal tolled the one year period, they had until July 11, 2010 to record the subdivision or
request an extension. The City maintains that tolling is not necessary, because UPCM has not
shown that it could not record the subdivision or fulfill the other conditions due to the appeal.

                                                      Analysis
      I.          The Utah Code Provides That Local Governments May Require Recording of
                  Subdivision Plats Within a Reasonable Time Period.

The condition requiring that subdivision plats be recorded within one year of approval is within
the City’s authority and promotes valid public interests. Local governments are granted fairly
broad authority to regulate land use and development:

            To accomplish the purposes of [Chapter 10-9a], municipalities may enact all
            ordinances, resolutions, and rules and may enter into other forms of land use
            controls and development agreements that they consider necessary or appropriate
            for the use and development of land within the municipality, including
            ordinances, resolutions, rules, restrictive covenants, easements, and development
            agreements governing uses, density, open spaces, structures, buildings, energy
            efficiency, light and air, air quality, transportation and public or alternative
            transportation, infrastructure, street and building orientation and width
            requirements, public facilities, fundamental fairness in land use regulation,
            considerations of surrounding land uses and the balance of the foregoing purposes
            with a landowner's private property interests, height and location of vegetation,
            trees, and landscaping, unless expressly prohibited by law.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-102(2). 3 This grant includes authority to approve subdivisions. See
id., §§ 10-9a-601 to -611.



2
  The City did consider UPCM’s request for an extension of the time to record, and it notes that extensions were
granted for UPCM’s Master Planned Development, Steep Slope Conditional Use, Historical District Design Review
applications. All of these applications were related to the subdivision.
3
  Counties have similar authority. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-102(2) (§§ 17-27a-101 through -803).


Advisory Opinion – United Park City Mines/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 27, 2011 – page 3 of 13 pages
Section 10-9a-603(5) of the Utah Code requires that new subdivision plats be recorded. That
section also provides that a city may impose a time period in which a subdivision must be
recorded. Failure to record a plat within that time period makes the plat voidable:

            (5) (a) After the plat has been acknowledged, certified, and approved, the owner
            of the land shall, within the time period designated by ordinance, record the plat
            in the county recorder's office in the county in which the lands platted and laid out
            are situated.

               (b) An owner's failure to record a plat within the time period designated by
            ordinance renders the plat voidable.

Id., § 10-9a-603(5). The City may therefore designate a reasonable time period in which a
subdivision must be recorded. The Utah Code does not establish the length of a time period, so it
follows that any reasonable time frame could be adopted. The state code provides that if an
owner fails to record a plat within the time frame, the plat is “voidable.” This means that the city
could choose to recognize the plat as valid, or it could simply treat the plat as void. 4

A requirement that a plat be recorded within a set time serves valid public purposes. It promotes
certainty and finality in subdivision plats, and helps avoid unnecessary problems caused by
“phantom,” or unrecorded plats and deeds. A recording deadline also helps encourage economic
development, and commits applicants to completion of the subdivision process. Because of the
authorization in the Utah Code, and the sound supporting policy, the City may impose a
condition requiring that subdivision plats be recorded within one year of approval.

      II.         An Appeal of a Land Use Decision Does Not Automatically Stay the Decision,
                  But a Stay May be Requested by the Aggrieved Party.

                  A.      Vested Rights and The Land Use Application and Decision Process

Utah recognizes the importance of a property owner’s right to use and develop property,
especially when approval to develop is granted. The Utah Supreme Court firmly established that
policy in its landmark decision of Western Land Equities v. Logan. 5 “A property owner should
be able to plan for developing his property in a manner permitted by existing zoning regulations
with some degree of assurance that the basic ground rules will not be changed in mid-stream.”
Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 396.

In Western Land, the Utah Supreme Court expressed concern that unduly preventing
development from occurring not only denies a property owner of the right to develop, it creates
economic waste, and increases burdens on both the public and developers.


4
  The state code does not clearly state whether a local government must affirmatively act to void a plat, or if voiding
may be automatic via an ordinance or a condition. See also id., § 10-9a-509(h) (conditions on approval must be
expressed in a statute or ordinance, or in documents approving an application).
5
  617 P.2d 388 (Utah 1980).


Advisory Opinion – United Park City Mines/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 27, 2011 – page 4 of 13 pages
            The economic waste that occurs when a project is halted after substantial costs
            have been incurred in its commencement is of no benefit either to the public or to
            landowners. . . . Governmental powers should be exercised in a manner that is
            reasonable and, to the extent possible, predictable. . . .

            Clearly it is desirable to reduce the necessity for a developer to resort to the
            courts. An applicant for approval of a planned and permitted use should not be
            subject to shifting policies that do not reflect serious public concerns.

Id., 617 P.2d at 395-96. The right to develop arises when a complete application that conforms
to existing zoning regulations is submitted to a local government for consideration, not when
approval is granted. Id.

                  B.       Appealing a Land Use Decision

In Utah, any “aggrieved person” may appeal a land use decision by filing a petition for review
with a district court. Decisions that may be appealed include those considered by an appeal
authority, such as variances or other administrative appeals, and decisions by a land use
authority, such as ordinance changes or subdivision approvals. 6 If there is a record of the
proceedings, the district court’s review is limited to that record, including transcripts of any
public hearings. UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-801(8)(a). 7 A court should uphold a final decision if
it is supported by substantial evidence, and is not arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. Id., § 10-9a-
801(3)(c).

The appeal process established by the Utah Code is meant to provide an expeditious review of a
land use decision; however, the review is not meant to supplant the local government’s
judgment. 8 The court reviews the record of the proceedings below, and takes no new evidence,
except in limited circumstances. The decision being reviewed is presumed to be valid, and will
be overturned only if arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.

                  C.       Requesting a Stay of a Decision During the Pendency of an Appeal

The Utah Code does not allow an “automatic stay” of a land use decision while an appeal is
pending, but an affected party may request that a decision be stayed.

              (a) The filing of a petition [i.e., an appeal to district court] does not stay the
            decision of the land use authority or authority appeal authority [sic], as the case
            may be.
               (b) (i) Before filing a petition under this section or a request for mediation or
6
  The Utah Code allows a local government to designate a “land use authority” to consider applications, including
approval of subdivisions. UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-103(23) The land use authority may be a city council (or
county commission) or a planning commission. See id., § 10-9a-604. Appeals of subdivision approvals may be
taken directly to a district court, without going through a local appeal authority. See id., § 10-9a-801.
7
  If there is no record, the court may take evidence and call witnesses. Id., § 10-9a-801(8)(b).
8
  See Xanthos v. Board of Adjustment of Salt Lake City, 685 P.2d 1032, 1034 (Utah 1984); Cottonwood Heights
Citizen Association v. Board of Commissioners, 593 P.2d 138, 140 (Utah 1979).


Advisory Opinion – United Park City Mines/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 27, 2011 – page 5 of 13 pages
             arbitration of a constitutional taking issue under Section 13-43-204, the aggrieved
             party may petition the appeal authority to stay its decision.
                    (ii) Upon receipt of a petition to stay, the appeal authority may order its
             decision stayed pending district court review if the appeal authority finds it to be
             in the best interest of the municipality.
                   (iii) After a petition is filed under this section or a request for mediation or
             arbitration of a constitutional taking issue is filed under Section 13-43-204, the
             petitioner may seek an injunction staying the appeal authority's decision.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-801(9). 9 The statute clearly states that an appeal to a district court
does not automatically stay a decision made by a land use authority or an appeal authority. The
statute also provides that the petitioner (but apparently no other party) may request that an appeal
authority’s decision be stayed. 10 Notably, the statute does not specifically authorize a request to
stay a decision appealed directly from a land use authority. 11

      III.        If it is Equitable to do so, Any Time Limits to Complete Conditions of a Land
                  Use Approval Should be Tolled if an Appeal Delays or Prevents a Land Owner
                  From Completing the Conditions.

There is no law or case in Utah that directly addresses whether a time limit to complete
conditions of a land use approval should be tolled while an appeal is pending. However, the
policies underlying the land use application and decision process, as well as the procedure used
for appeals, leads to the conclusion that such time limits ought to be tolled when it is fair and
equitable to do so. The statute prohibiting an automatic stay does not prevent a local government
from recognizing the need to allow more time for a land owner to complete conditions.

             A. Some States Have Allowed Tolling, While Other Jurisdictions Have Not

                     1. Jurisdictions Which Recognize Tolling When Equitable

With no specific guidance from Utah sources, it is helpful to look to other jurisdictions for
guidance. UPCM cites to cases from Maryland, Ohio, and Rhode Island which allowed tolling
on equitable grounds. 12 To these may be added decisions from Connecticut, Massachusetts,


9
   Section 13-43-204 authorizes the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman to mediate or arbitrate disputes
involving a property taking or eminent domain.
10
   A court may issue an injunction or a temporary restraining order, pursuant to Rule 65A of the Utah Rules of Civil
Procedure. Presumably, a district court could therefore stay all or any part of a land use decision.
11
   A land use authority is a person, board, or commission authorized to act upon a land use application. See UTAH
CODE ANN. § 10-9a-103(23). This may include a city council, county commission, planning commission, or an
employee who makes decisions. Some decisions of a land use authority are appealed to an appeal authority, while
other decisions are appealed to a district court. The City Council, acting as a land use authority, approved UPCM’s
subdivision application. A group of neighboring property owners appealed that approval to the district court.
12
   See City of Bowie v. Prince George’s County, 863 A.2d 976 (Md. Ct. Spec. App. 2004); Cardinale v. Ottawa
Regional Planning Commission, 627 N.E.2d 611 (Ohio Ct. App. 1993); Tantimonaco v. Town of Johnston, 232 A.2d
385 (R.I. 1967).


Advisory Opinion – United Park City Mines/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 27, 2011 – page 6 of 13 pages
Missouri, and Vermont. 13 Interestingly, Connecticut, Maryland, and Rhode Island had laws
similar to § 10-9a-801(9), which prohibited automatic stays. 14 The Maryland Court of Special
Appeals nevertheless determined “that principles of equity compel a tolling, narrowly tailored to
the facts of the case . . . .” City of Bowie v. Prince George’s County, 863 A.2d 976, 990 (Md. Ct.
Spec. App. 2004). The court went on to explain that

            when a developer cannot proceed administratively because of litigation or when
            the administrative entity declines to permit him to proceed while matters are being
            litigated, the time period within which an applicant for subdivision must take
            further action . . . is to be tolled during the time that litigation is pending . . . .
            What we do is to avoid the mischief that could otherwise occur if litigation is used
            solely to cause administrative deadlines to be missed.

Id., 863 A.2d at 990-991. The Rhode Island Supreme Court adopted similar reasoning to protect
developers’ economic interests:

            [C]ommon prudence understandably acts as a brake against incurring obligations,
            the benefits of which would be cancelled by an adverse decision . . . . [W]e think
            it clear that the requirement of activating a permit set forth in an ordinance does
            not apply during such time as the legality of a permit is open to question by
            reason of litigation amounting to an appeal from the issuance thereof.

Tantimonaco v. Town of Johnston, 232 A.2d 385, 388 (R.I. 1967). Connecticut’s Appellate Court
followed the same philosophy, explaining that the statute preventing automatic stays of decisions
on appeal did not afford adequate protections for developers. The court also noted the
complexities usually involved in obtaining land use approvals, and determined that tolling time
limits while an appeal was pending was appropriate. Fromer v. Two Hundred Post Associates,
631 A.2d 347, 354 (Conn. App. Ct. 1993).

The Ohio Court of Appeals also recognized that failing to toll a time limit could impose hardship
on a land developer.

            To fail to toll time during the pendency of a legal challenge by adjoining property
            owners “would make development a pure gamble; success would depend on the
            whim of adversaries to litigate or not”. . . . Such a result would contravene the
            policy that a developer who diligently proceeds in good faith should be able to do
            so with assurance.




13
   See Fromer v. Two Hundred Post Associates, 632 A.2d 347 (Conn. App. Ct. 1993); Belfer v. Boston, 294 N.E.2d
857 (Mass. 1973); Krekeler v. St. Louis, 422 S.W.2d 265 (Mo. 1967); Pressault v. City of Burlington, 315 A.2d 244
(Vt. 1974).
14
   The laws were in place when the appellate decisions were written. Other than Utah, this Opinion makes no
representation on current statutes in the jurisdictions discussed.


Advisory Opinion – United Park City Mines/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 27, 2011 – page 7 of 13 pages
Cardinale v. Ottawa Regional Planning Commission, 627 N.E.2d 611, 615 (Ohio Ct. App. 1993)
(citing Pressault v. Wheel, 315 A.2d 244, 248 (Vt. 1974)). 15 The Ohio court, however, did not
make tolling automatic, but tempered its rule by allowing tolling only when equitable:

            [W]e hold that where a final plat approval has been made on condition that
            specific deficiencies be corrected within a specified time, and the developer of
            that approved plat is prevented from satisfying the named conditions by the legal
            intervention of third-party adversaries, the developer’s time within which to
            comply with the conditions should be tolled when it is equitable to do so.

Cardinale, 627 N.E.2d at 615. 16 As a coda to this discussion, it is noted that Missouri’s statutes
provided an automatic stay when administrative decisions were appealed. Krekeler v. St. Louis
County, 422 S.W.2d 265, 268 (Mo. 1967).

                     2. Jurisdictions Which do not Allow Tolling

In contrast, cases from Illinois, Washington, and the District of Columbia rejected a tolling rule,
because the affected parties could have requested stays. The Washington Court of Appeals
rejected an argument that an appeal from a land use decision automatically stayed any time limits
associated with that decision. The case dealt with a development approval that was finally
awarded after a 15-year “on-again, off-again” process. The final approval, from 2005, imposed a
two-year time limit to obtain necessary permits to begin construction. A group of neighboring
property owners filed an appeal, and the trial court overturned the approval. The developer
appealed, but the property owners argued that the appeal was moot, because the developer had
not obtained the required permits. Since the two-year time limit had passed, the approval had
expired.

The court of appeals agreed with the neighboring property owners, and dismissed the appeal.
The court based its reasoning on a Washington statute that did not prevent an automatic stay but
allowed any party to seek a stay of a decision that was under review. Since the developer had not
obtained a stay, the time limits kept running, and so the original approval expired. “[A] party
against whom time has expired under the original grant cannot avail himself of an ‘automatic
stay’ under the common law.” Kelley v. Chelan County, 185 P.3d 1224, 1229 (Wash Ct. App.
2008). The court felt it would be “illogical” for a court to invent an automatic stay rule when the
statute clearly provided a party with the means to obtain one. Id., 185 P.3d at 1228.

The Washington court relied heavily on a decision from the Illinois Court of Appeals, which was
also reluctant to create an automatic stay in light of statutory authorization allowing parties to




15
  Note the similarity in language to that quoted earlier from Western Land Equities.
16
  The Massachusetts Supreme Court also approved tolling as a means of protecting developer’s economic interests.
Belfer v. Boston, 294 N.E.2d 857, 859-60 (Mass. 1973).


Advisory Opinion – United Park City Mines/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 27, 2011 – page 8 of 13 pages
request one. 17 The Illinois court reasoned that an automatic stay rule contravened the authority
of courts to best manage appeals. Gold v. Kamin, 524 N.E.2d 625, 627-28 (Ill. App. Ct. 1988). 18

In like manner, the District of Columbia Court of Appeals refused to create an automatic stay that
was contrary to a municipal statute specifically preventing automatic stays. A property owner
was granted approvals to modify a building to be used as office space. The municipal code
required that an applicant obtain building permits within six months of the approvals.
Neighboring property owners appealed the approvals on various grounds. By the time the matter
reached the Court of Appeals, more than six months had passed.

The D.C. Municipal Code prohibited automatic stays, like § 10-9a-801(9) of the Utah Code.
Nevertheless, the D.C. Office of the Corporation Counsel had issued an advisory opinion
concluding that a time period to obtain a permit was tolled during the pendency of an appeal.
The court rejected that opinion, and held that since the property owner had not requested a stay
of the decision, the time kept running, and the approvals expired after six months. “The statute
simply will not permit a court . . . to accept the contrary view of the Corporation Counsel”
French v. District of Columbia Board of Adjustment, 658 A.2d 1023, 1030-31 (D.C. 1995). 19

Of the jurisdictions that have considered the question, three have held that there is no automatic
tolling of time limits to complete required actions. Those courts reasoned that a developer would
be aware of the time limits, and could either ask for a stay or take the risk that the approval
expires. On the other hand, six states have held that an automatic tolling may be necessary to
prevent inequity, even in the face of statutes that prohibited automatic stays of decisions. Those
states reasoned that a developer should not be penalized because the appeal process causes an
approval to expire. Tolling a time limit does not necessarily constitute a stay of a decision, and
protects developers and property owners from inequitable results.

            B. Similar Cases from Utah Support Tolling of Time Limits When Equitable

Although there is no Utah case announcing a rule on tolling due to appeal of a land use decision,
there are two decisions which have considered fairly similar situations. In a 1951 decision, the
Utah Supreme Court upheld a local ordinance which invalidated a building permit if construction
were suspended for 60 days. 20 In June of 1945, a developer obtained a building permit to
construct a gas station. The city’s building code required that if construction activity was not
started within 60 days, or if construction were suspended for 60 days, the permit would expire.
The developer began construction activity, including installation of underground storage tanks.
However, due to wartime rationing of building materials, the developer was unable to get the
17
   Like the Washington statute, the Illinois law provided that a party may request a stay. It did not prohibit an
automatic stay, like § 10-9a-801(9) of the Utah Code. The approach from Washington and Illinois essentially boiled
down to this: The developer should have recognized the need to toll the time limit, and then asked a court to grant a
stay.
18
   Gold considered whether a requirement that building permits be obtained within 18 months after a variance was
granted. Because of appeals from the variance decision, the developer did not apply for building permits.
19
   The D.C. Court of Appeals is the supreme court for the District of Columbia. It should not be confused with the
federal Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit.
20
   Judkins v. Fronk, 234 P.2d 849 (Utah 1951).


Advisory Opinion – United Park City Mines/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 27, 2011 – page 9 of 13 pages
lumber and other building supplies until 1948. 21 Construction on the gas station ceased in March
1946. In the summer of 1946, the city amended its zoning ordinances, prohibiting gas stations
within the zone where the developer’s property was located.

In October of 1948, the developer requested an extension of the building permit, explaining that
he was unable to purchase the needed building materials for the gas station. The city denied his
request because more than two years had passed since any construction activity had occurred. 22
On appeal, the developer argued that, despite the city’s ordinances, he had obtained a vested right
to proceed, because he had expended funds and taken steps to begin construction. He should not
be denied this vested right due to delays that were beyond his control. 23 The Utah Supreme
Court rejected the developer’s arguments, and held that too much time had passed, and the
permit had expired. The court reasoned that even if the time limit were suspended because of the
rationing, the developer still took too much time to request an extension or begin work. 24

More recently, the Utah Supreme Court held that a public referendum on a zoning ordinance
tolled the effective date of the ordinance, preventing a developer from claiming a vested right in
the newly approved language. 25 A city had adopted an amendment to its zoning ordinance,
which expanded the allowable uses in commercial zones. A citizen’s group launched a
successful petition drive, securing enough signatures to submit the amendment to a public vote.
A developer submitted plans for property subject to the new zoning regulations, and claimed the
vested right to develop, regardless of the referendum. The Utah Supreme Court, noting that the
Utah Constitution guarantees citizens the right to seek referenda on ordinances and statutes, held
that the effective date of the new amendments “was tolled pending the exercise of the
referendum right . . . .” Mouty v. Sandy City, 2005 UT 41, ¶14, 122 P.3d 521, 526. In other
words, the property owner could not acquire any vested right to develop until the referendum
process had been completed. 26 This not only respects the citizens’ referendum rights, but also
protects developers from potential economic loss if the referendum were successful.




21
   The developer applied for approval to purchase the materials, but was denied. The rationing remained in place
until July, 1947, but shortages still existed for another year or so. Judkins, 234 P.2d at 850. Although there were
shortages, there were no longer official restrictions on the sale of building materials.
22
   The city’s building code allowed a developer to request an extension up to one year after construction activity
ceased. Id., 234 P.2d at 851.
23
   This conception of vested rights is different than that expressed in Western Land Equities.
24
   Id. The opinion did not evaluate the argument that the time limit should be tolled. The court used the example to
illustrate that the developer had simply waited too long.
25
   Mouty v. Sandy City, 2005 UT 41, 122 P.3d 521. The referendum was not an appeal of the decision, but was
initiated by a petition drive.
26
   The court also observed that a voter referendum on a zoning amendment constitutes a “compelling, countervailing
public interest,” constituting an exception to the vested rights doctrine. See Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 396;
see also UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(i).


Advisory Opinion – United Park City Mines/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 27, 2011 – page 10 of 13 pages
            C. Tolling is Consistent With Utah Law, and the Policies Underlying the Land Use
               Approval Process

                     1. Tolling Provides a “Degree of Assurance” that Plans can be Completed

If a referendum on a zoning ordinance amendment tolls the effective date of that amendment,
then it is reasonable to conclude that an appeal of a land use decision may operate to toll any
time limits impacted by that appeal. Like the tolling required in Mouty, a rule suspending
required time limits protects developers from economic loss because an appeal impedes progress
on a development. A developer should not have to risk losing an entire project simply because
the appeal process delays completion of a required condition. Given the complexity of most
development projects, along with the significant economic investment necessary to even obtain
approval, the reasoning of the Ohio Court of Appeals should apply:

            To fail to toll time during the pendency of a legal challenge by adjoining property
            owners “would make development a pure gamble; success would depend on the
            whim of adversaries to litigate or not”. . . . Such a result would contravene the
            policy that a developer who diligently proceeds in good faith should be able to do
            so with assurance.

Cardinale, 627 N.E.2d at 615; see also Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 396 (Property owners
should be able to plan for development with a “degree of assurance”). However, an appeal
should not simply “stop the clock” on any time limits. A time limit should be tolled when the
appeal blocks or delays compliance, and when tolling is equitable. 27

This position is consistent with Judkins, because it recognizes the duty on the developer to
proceed with diligence. In Judkins, the property owner lost his building permit because he
waited too long to request an extension, not because the court insisted upon a draconian
application of the city’s time limits. If a developer is not seeking compliance (or extensions of
time limits) with diligence, then tolling would not be equitable, and the developer should not be
able to take advantage of a tolling rule. On the other hand, if a developer is diligently seeking to
complete conditions within a required time frame, and an appeal frustrates those efforts, then
tolling the time limits may be equitable.

                     2. Reconciliation with § 10-9a-801 and the Land Use Appeal Process

A policy allowing tolling of required time limits does not offend § 10-9a-801(9) of the Utah
Code, which proscribes automatic stays. Tolling a time limit when appropriate is not an
automatic stay of the entire decision. Rather, it recognizes that there are circumstances where
tolling is fair, but completely suspending a land use decision would not be necessary. In
addition, tolling could be applied after an appeal is resolved, as opposed to a stay, which would
be requested from the onset of an appeal. As explained above, three states with similar statutes

27
   Cardinale, 627 N.E.2d at 615. (In Cardinale, the decision noted that the development at issue required approvals
from several different agencies. Because the initial approval had been appealed, the developer’s lender would not
release funds for the project, effectively preventing the developer from seeking the necessary approvals.)


Advisory Opinion – United Park City Mines/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 27, 2011 – page 11 of 13 pages
allowed tolling, because their appellate courts felt it was fair and appropriate. The rulings did
not grant an automatic stay from the beginning of the appeal, but allowed a post-appeal
application of an equitable tolling rule.

The process for land use appeals also allows a tolling rule. As explained above, the land use
appeal process is meant to provide an expedited review of a decision, and is a review of the
record of that decision (except in limited circumstances). Tolling a time limit to complete
required conditions is in harmony providing an expedited review, and in limiting that review to
the record only. Disallowing tolling would complicate the review process by inserting a
requirement that a party obtain a stay at the beginning of an appeal. 28 A policy of allowing time
limits to be tolled, when equitable to do so, thus promotes efficiency while preserving the rights
of the parties to the appeal.

Finally, the Utah Code authorizes local governments to require a developer to record a plat
within a reasonable time. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-603(5). Failure to record within that
time makes the plat voidable, meaning that the local government may still recognize the plat as
valid. This language grants discretion to the local government to allow additional time to record
the plat. If tolling of the time limit to record a plat is not allowed, the language of § 10-9a-
603(5) is nullified, and a voidable plat becomes a void plat, despite the language allowing a local
government to validate the plat.

                     3. Application of a Tolling Rule

As has been explained, this Opinion concludes that time limits to complete required conditions
ought to be tolled during the pendency of an appeal, when it is equitable to do so. This is not an
“automatic” tolling that would apply every time a land use decision is appealed, but is an
equitable rule to be applied when fairness dictates. A number of factors should be considered
when deciding whether to toll a time limit: Whether a developer has been blocked or delayed
from complying with the requirement, the developer’s diligence in seeking compliance, the costs
incurred by the developer to comply, the potential impact to all parties if the time limit is not
tolled, etc. Finally, this Opinion also concludes that tolling should not be unreasonably withheld
when appropriate.

Although this tolling rule is advocated, it is not possible for this Opinion to apply the rule
UPCM’s situation. There is simply not enough information to make a decision, other than the
timing of the appeal and the deadline for recording. UPCM has not presented evidence that it
was delayed from recording due to the appeal, or that the appeal made it financially burdensome
or unduly speculative to proceed with the project while the appeal was pending. Without this
information, this Opinion cannot determine whether the time to record the subdivision plat
should be tolled or not. The City should reevaluate its decision to deny any additional time for


28
   It is acknowledged that a request for a stay would probably not consume a great deal of time or resources.
However, an appeal of a land use decision is meant to be an expedited review of the record only, and requesting a
stay complicates that process. This is the approach taken by the District of Columbia, Illinois, and Washington, as
discussed earlier.


Advisory Opinion – United Park City Mines/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 27, 2011 – page 12 of 13 pages
UPCM to record the subdivision plat, by undertaking the type of analysis described herein. If the
City concludes that fairness and equity require, additional time for recording may be granted.

                                                      Conclusion
Local governments have jurisdiction over subdivision approvals, and may impose reasonable
conditions on subdivisions. The Utah Code allows local governments to require that a
subdivision be recorded within a reasonable time period after approval. Such a rule promotes
finality and accuracy in land descriptions, and serves as an incentive for developers to complete
projects.

Although the Utah Code prevents an automatic stay when a land use decision is appealed, a
policy allowing tolling of time limits to complete required conditions is appropriate. Tolling
time limits is not an automatic stay of a decision, but a reasonable policy to prevent inequity. A
tolling policy is also consistent with the land use appeal process, and encourages expedited
appeals based on the record of the decision. Local governments have discretion to recognize the
validity of subdivision plats, even if the plats are not recorded within a required time frame.
Other jurisdictions have allowed tolling when equitable to do so, even in light of provisions
prohibiting automatic stays.

After a review of the Utah Code, Utah cases, and the policies underlying the land use process,
this Opinion concludes that time limits to complete required conditions during the pendency of
an appeal ought to be tolled, when equitable and reasonable to do so. The impacts on the
developer, the local government, and other affected parties should be considered when
determining whether a time limit should be tolled. Tolling should not be unreasonably denied
when appropriate, but its use should also not constitute an abuse of local discretion.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – United Park City Mines/Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 27, 2011 – page 13 of 13 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                    MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63G-7-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

Janet M. Scott, City Recorder
Park City
445 Marsac Avenue
Park City, Utah 84060

On this ___________ Day of October, 2011, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                                ______________________________________________________
                                Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
