                       Advisory Opinion 182
                                               Parties: Ivins City
                                            Issued: March 29, 2017

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                        Exactions on Development




The requirements imposed by a local zoning code control development in that
zone. When requirements result in dedication of property to the public, that
requirement is an exaction, and must be reviewed under the "rough proportionality
test." Requirements that do not result in dedication are not exactions and are
analyzed under the regulatory takings test.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI     BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director    Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:               Dale T. Coulam, City Attorney

        Local Government Entity:                     Ivins City

        Type of Property:                            Commercial

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:               March 29, 2017

        Opinion Authored By:                         Brent N. Bateman
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                      ISSUE
        Are Ivins City’s setback ordinances and road construction requirements legal?



                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        Ivins City’s setback ordinances, as applied to the property at the corner of 200 East and Highway
        91, restrict the use of the property but do not necessarily result in a regulatory taking. They do
        not deprive the property of all economically viable uses of the land. However, the same setback
        regulations could be illegal when applied to other properties, if they go too far.

        Ivins City’s requirements to dedicate and construct any portion of a road or trail/sidewalk are
        exactions and are analyzed using the rough proportionality rule. The recommended trails within
        the landscape buffers, if they are to be used by the public, are dedicatory and are thus exactions
        rather than simple landscape requirements. The legality of those exactions depends on the
        development that will occur, and whether the exactions are roughly proportionate to the impacts
        created by the development.
                                                REVIEW
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Mr. Dale T. Coulam, Ivins City Attorney,
on behalf of City of Ivins, on December 7, 2016. A letter was sent to Mr. Coulam
acknowledging his request for an advisory opinion, via regular US Postal Service to Ivins City
Attorney's Office, 55 North Main St., Ivins, Utah 84738.


                                              EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion submitted by Mr. Dale T. Coulam, City Attorney, on
        behalf of the City of Ivins, on December 7, 2016.


                                            BACKGROUND
Ivins City has three potentially conflicting policies regarding building setbacks. All three have
converged on a parcel located at the corner of 200 East and Highway 91. Ivins has requested this
Advisory Opinion to determine whether these setbacks actually do set them back.

The first setback provision arises in Ivins City Zoning Ordinance § 16.19.102, and thus
represents the actual law in Ivins. This provision provides two setbacks scenarios:

           Properties adjacent to [Highway 91 – along its entire length] shall be limited to
           setbacks and building heights to the extent reasonably feasible as per figures 2-A
           and 2-B of this section, or to the actual view angle if determined to be greater than
           fifteen degrees (15) using methods similar to those used in said figures 2-A and 2-
           B to preserve significant views. Where none of the above stated views are
           compromised or when the view angle to such views is less than fifteen degrees
           (15), then the minimum setback shall be thirty feet (30’). If the view angle
           calculation determines a setback greater than thirty feet (30), then up to one-third
           (1/3) of a building, or cluster of buildings, can extend to the minimum setback.


Advisory Opinion – Ivins City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 29, 2017 Page 2 of 8
According to this provision, the setbacks along Highway 91 will be at least 30 feet. If buildings
will interfere with certain view corridors, setbacks will increase depending upon building
heights. The accompanying image illustrates this 15 degree angle rule.




Ivins City is concerned about this provision because on the 200 East and Highway 91 parcel, it
yields a whopping 100 foot setback for a two story building, and an even whoppinger 1 125 foot
setback for a three story building.

The second setback policy comes
from the Ivins City Master
Transportation Plan.2 This setback
provision is not text-based. Rather it
is represented by a graphic of a
highway cross-section. Since even a
thousand words would shortchange
the value of the picture, it is included
here.3

This rendering shows a luxurious 100
foot wide right of way, including
shoulder and ditch, adjacent to a 30
foot landscape buffer. Within the
buffer is a ten foot wide meandering
sidewalk or trail.

1
  “So shall my lungs coin words till their decay.” Shakespeare, Coriolanus III.1.
2
  Nothing has been provided to indicate that the Master Transportation Plan has the force of law in Ivins.
3
  Enjoyment of this graphic is certainly enhanced by the depiction of an apparent hazardous materials truck traveling
through downtown Ivins City.
Advisory Opinion – Ivins City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 29, 2017 Page 3 of 8
And finally, the third setback policy refers to the Highway 91 Base Corridor Plan and
Recommendations, dated June 17, 2004.4

           Recommended Goals:
           1. Setbacks of 20-foot minimum and 30-foot average from the highway right of
           way to provide an open buffer area will be required along both sides of the
           highway.
           2. Building setbacks of 50 feet.

A subsequent page of the same document provides an overhead view of Highway 91:

                                                            This rendering includes arrows indicating a
                                                            “40’    minimum,        100’   recommended”
                                                            landscaped buffer area. These numbers do not
                                                            match those in the recommended goals above.5
                                                            Thus the Highway 91 Base Corridor Plan
                                                            appears self-contradictory.

                                                            Ivins City has requested this Advisory Opinion
                                                            to ask which, if any, of these options pass legal
                                                            muster. Also, the City asks whether it can
                                                            require the developer to pay all Highway 91
                                                            improvement costs adjacent to the project
                                                            property, including landscape buffer and trail.


                                                   ANALYSIS
     I.          Requirements v. Exactions

An often overlooked distinction arises between requirements and exactions. This distinction is
important because although all exactions are requirements, not all requirements are exactions. 6
Exactions and requirements are analyzed differently, and both arise in this Advisory Opinion.

Most zoning codes contain many requirements. Indeed, a zoning code that doesn’t impose
requirements is like a wienerdog on a pheasant hunt: there’s no point. The requirements imposed
by a zoning code control development within that zone. Requirements limit uses, establish
densities, dictate setbacks, restrict heights, frustrate developers, limit animals, control
landscaping, enflame neighbors, and many similar verb-object pairs. Zoning requirements can be
4
  These recommendations also have not been adopted into Ivins City law as far as can be determined.
5
  There may be some unfound explanation for these disparate numbers. In my experience, engineers rarely make
mistakes with numbers and can usually find an algorithm to explain even the most apparent errors. Those
explanations, in my experience, often involve something called “imaginary numbers,” which I can only assume
means numbers such as eleventeen or sixtytwelve. In any event, reconciling these numbers is not critical to the result
of this Advisory Opinion.
6
  That helpful sentence will hopefully be better explained below.
Advisory Opinion – Ivins City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 29, 2017 Page 4 of 8
made mandatory by being adopted into the local ordinance. Authority to create ordinances arises
under the local government’s police power to establish laws to ensure the health, safety, and
welfare of a community. See Marshall v. Salt Lake City, 141 P.2d 704, 708 (Utah 1943) (“City
zoning is authorized only as an exercise of the police power of the state. It must therefore have
for its purpose and objectives matters which come within the province of the police power.”).

Exactions, on the other hand, are dedications to the public of private property as a condition of
development approval. See Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S. 374, 386 (1994). The classic
example of an exaction is a requirement to dedicate land and build a road. If the City requires a
developer, as a condition of approval, to give land to the City for the road, and/or to give money
to construct the road, the requirement that the City has imposed is an exaction.

Thus the primary distinction between a requirement and exaction is a requirement requires a
developer to do something with his or her own property, whereas an exaction requires the
developer to give property away to the public. See also B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County,
2006 UT 2, ¶ 34,128 P.3d 1161, 1169 (“[E]xactions resemble physical takings in the sense that
they typically require the permanent surrender of private property for public use.”). Exactions
are a type of requirement, but requirements that do not require public dedication of property are
not exactions. Setback requirements are usually not exactions, because no dedication to the
public is usually required. Typically, the owner keeps and can use the land within the setback.
However, when the owner is required to give property to the public or construct public
improvements within or without a setback area, it becomes an exaction.

     II.         The Ivins City Setback Requirements

A City may require buildings and other development activity to be set back a certain distance
from the public street, in order to advance the public health, safety, and welfare of the
community. In most circumstances, the setback area remains in the ownership of the property
owner and is not dedicated to the public.

Under Utah law, zoning and land use ordinances are deemed valid, unless it can be shown that
they are arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. Bradley v. Payson City Corp., 2003 UT 16, ¶10. A
zoning or land use ordinance is considered not arbitrary or capricious “if it is reasonably
debatable that the decision, ordinance, or regulation promotes the purposes of this chapter and is
not otherwise illegal.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-801(3)(b). Thus, if a particular zoning restriction,
such as a setback, is adopted by ordinance, it is deemed valid unless (1) it is not reasonably
debatable that the setback promotes the purposes of LUDMA,7 or (2) is illegal. Reasonably
debatable is a very low standard. So low, in fact, that no point exists in wasting the droplet of ink
needed to discuss it further. All that is left, then, is to examine whether the requirement is illegal.

A zoning requirement can be illegal if it goes too far.8 “The general rule at least is, that while
property may be regulated to a certain extent, if regulation goes too far it will be recognized as a

7
  LUDMA is an acronym for Land Use, Development, and Management Act, UTAH CODE § 10-9a-101 et seq., and is
shorthand for the “this chapter” referred to above.
8
  A zoning requirement may be illegal for multiple reasons, such as directly contradicting a state statute. Our
discussion here is limited to whether the requirement amounts to an unconstitutional regulatory taking.
Advisory Opinion – Ivins City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 29, 2017 Page 5 of 8
taking.” Pennsylvania Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U.S. 393, 415 (1922). A regulation is generally
understood to go too far if it wipes out the ability to use the land: “[F]or there to be a taking
under a zoning ordinance, the landowner must show that he has been deprived of all reasonable
uses of his land.” Cornish Town v. Koller, 817 P.2d 305, 312 (Utah 1991). A reasonable use, or
economically viable use, does not mean the “highest and best use.” Smith Inv. Co. v. Sandy City,
958 P.2d 245, 259 (Utah Ct. App. 1998). Generally where economic value remains in the
property, no taking has occurred.9 See Pennsylvania Coal, 260 U.S. at 413. (“Government hardly
could go on if to some extent values incident to property could not be diminished without paying
for every such change in the general law.”). Thus, if a setback restriction essentially wipes out
the economically viable uses of the land, it has gone too far, and is illegal. Short of that, a
setback will be presumed valid.

The Ivins City ordinance calls for minimum 30 foot setbacks along Highway 91, and the
preservation of a 15 percent view angle. The essence of the ordinance is that buildings must be
distanced from the highway in order to fit within that 15 degree angle. For a two story building
to fit within that view angle, it must be 100 feet from the road, and the three story building must
be 125 feet away. One hundred feet represents a very large and alarming setback. However, the
requirement is not necessarily illegal. It may help to view Ivins City’s 15 degree view angle not
as a setback ordinance, but as a building height ordinance. A one-story building appears to have
no problem fitting into the 15 degree angle when set back 30 feet from the property line. Taller
buildings must be set back further to fit within the 15 degree window. Certainly requiring them
to be built 100 feet from the property line is a really long way. But prohibiting two-story and
three-story buildings close to the road does not inherently deprive the property of economically
viable use. One-story buildings are an economically viable use, and can occupy the land close to
the road. Taller buildings can exist on the property, but must be located farther from Highway 91.

Thus if a structure can be built, even limited to single story structures, then economic value
remains in the property. The regulation is then presumed valid and has not gone too far. A
property owner may have the right to build upon the land, but there is no inherent right to have a
three-story building close to the road. Accordingly, the Ivins City ordinance does not go too far
on the corner of 200 East and Highway 91.

Much will depend, of course, on the size and shape of the parcel itself. On the corner of 200 East
and Highway 91, the requirement does not appear to deprive the owner of economically viable
use of land. Of course, on parcels of different size and shape, application of this ordinance could
go too far and deprive the owner of economically viable uses. In such a case, a variance,
ordinance change, or purchase of property may be needed to remedy a possible unconstitutional
taking. Nevertheless, no inherent illegality can be found in the default 30 foot setback ordinance,
nor the 15 degree view angle requirement.




9
 A taking may also arise under the burdens vs. benefits balancing test in Penn Central Transp. Co. v. New York City,
438 U.S. 104 (1978). However, application of this test would not yield a different result.
Advisory Opinion – Ivins City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 29, 2017 Page 6 of 8
     III.        The Ivins Road Improvement Exactions

The remaining provisions, the Ivins City Transportation Master Plan and the Highway 91 Base
Corridor Plan and Recommendations,10 include exactions and must be analyzed differently. Both
of these documents show, seemingly as setbacks, large landscape buffer zones on each side of the
road. But these buffer zones, 30 feet wide on the Transportation Master Plan, and various widths
on the Base Corridor Plan, are not mere setbacks. Included in each of those buffers is a
meandering trail or sidewalk. Although the text does not require dedication of this area unless the
“homes or commercial sites do not front street,” the trail or sidewalk will presumably be used by
the public. If the public will use the property, dedication is required. Some public easement or
right-of-way must arise in order to give people the right to use the sidewalk. Otherwise, the trail
can only benefit the property owner and all others who use the trail trespass. Accordingly,
although the graphic indicates that the landscape buffer is normally not dedicated, the appearance
of a trail or sidewalk within that buffer indicates that it must be dedicated, at least in part. Since
that area is to be dedicated to the public, it is an exaction, and not merely a setback.

Exactions are analyzed under the rough proportionality test found in UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1):

            (1) A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development
                proposed in a land use application, including, subject to Subsection (3), an
                exaction for a water interest, if:
                (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
                    each exaction; and
                (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
                    impact of the proposed development.

This test, borrowed directly from the U.S. Supreme Court analyses in Nollan v. California
Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994), and
refined in Utah in B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2008 UT 74, seeks to
determine whether the dedication is roughly proportionate in both nature and extent to the cost to
the City to assuage the development’s impact. If the exaction passes this test, being roughly
proportionate to the impact created by the development, it is legal. Otherwise, it fails.

Whether or not an exaction is roughly proportionate, of course, depends on the impact of the
development. A development with a greater impact will justify a greater exaction. Smaller
impacts require smaller exactions. All of these combined costs, including the land dedicated to
public use, costs of construction of improvements upon that land, etc., must together be roughly
proportionate to the impacts created by the development.

Analysis of these exactions is impossible without knowing what is being developed. Impacts
cannot be determined until the development is presented. For now, suffice to say that the cross-

10
   It’s worth noting again that neither appears to have the force of law. Although planning documents are adopted in
a legislative process, they are usually considered advisory only. “[T]he general plan is an advisory guide for land use
decisions, the impact of which shall be determined by ordinance.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-405. A planning document
can be given the force of law through express adoption into ordinance. However, nothing was provided to so
indicate here.
Advisory Opinion – Ivins City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 29, 2017 Page 7 of 8
section from the Transportation Master Plan, and the Base Corridor Plan each require some
exactions, and do not simply represent required landscaping within setbacks.


                                                 CONCLUSION
The Ivins City setback requirements, although appearing very large, are really restrictions
regarding building heights, and do not go too far because they do not deprive the owner of all
economically viable use of the land. Ivins City’s plans and recommendations are exactions, in
that they require the dedication of land within the landscape buffer. Any dedication must be
considered an exaction once development impacts are determined. The exaction and the impacts
must be roughly proportionate to one another.

We recommend that Ivins City consider clear and objective setback standards along Highway 91
that meet their community goals. We further recommend that the City adopt into ordinance clear
road standards that include sidewalks and landscape buffers. Going forward, as applications to
develop are received, we recommend that the City examine whether their setbacks go too far as
applied to the property, and examine the exactions it would like to impose. Having carefully
reviewed the impacts, the City should ensure that its exactions are proportionate to those
impacts.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney11
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




11
   Please do not mistake the few attempts to inject a light-hearted comment herein for a lack of sincerity or
seriousness in responding to the questions presented. They are, rather, an attempt to elicit a smile from the reader in
happy celebration of my ten years as Lead Attorney at the Utah Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, the
anniversary of which corresponds with this Advisory Opinion’s release date.
Advisory Opinion – Ivins City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 29, 2017 Page 8 of 8
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in UTAH CODE § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE



On this ___________ Day of __________, 2017, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered via the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid, and certified mail, return receipt
requested, and addressed to the person shown below.



Dale T. Coulam
Ivins City Attorney's Office
55 North Main St.
Ivins, Utah 84738




______________________________________________________
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
