                     Advisory Opinion #141
                               Parties: Michael Thayne and Syracuse City
                                            Issued: June 10, 2014

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                  Entitlement to Application Approval (Vested Rights)
                               Subdivision Plat Approval
                             Interpretation of Ordinances


An applicant’s right to develop vests when the applicant submits an application
that complies with the ordinances in place. When the application is approved, the
application is deemed to fully comply with the applicable ordinances, and the
applicant is entitled to proceed with respect to all matters addressed in that
application.

The City cites several ordinances that could be interpreted to render the
development noncompliant. Each of those arguments arises out of the layout and
design of the development. However, the layout and design of this development
has been shown on previous applications, and the issues raised have been
discussed at length. By approving the previous applications, the City has
interpreted those ordinances and deemed that the subdivision complies. The
development has vested. The vesting rule prohibits the City from revisiting those
matters, and entitles the applicant to approval of the development application.


                                                DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each
Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was
prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes
or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide
general guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be
considered legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current
laws.




                     The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                                  (801) 530-6391
                     Utah Department of Commerce                                                 1-877-882-4662
                     PO Box 146702                                                           Fax: (801) 530-6338
                     160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                     www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                     Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                         propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 SPENCER J. COX
Lieutenant Governor




                                         ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:               Michael J. Thayne

      Local Government Entity:                     Syracuse City

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:         Irben Development LLC

      Type of Property:                            Residential Development

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:               June 10, 2014

      Opinion Authored By:                         Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
                                                   Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                   Issues
      Can a City deny final plat approval to a development that has previously received sketch plan
      approval and preliminary plat approval?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
      An applicant’s right to develop vests when the applicant submits an application that complies
      with the ordinances in place. When the application is approved, the application is deemed to fully
      comply with the applicable ordinances, and the applicant is entitled to proceed with respect to all
      matters addressed in that application.

      The City cites several ordinances that could be interpreted to render the development
      noncompliant. Each of those arguments arises out of the layout and design of the development.
      However, the layout and design of this development has been shown on previous applications,
      and the issues raised have been discussed at length. By approving the previous applications, the
      City has interpreted those ordinances and deemed that the subdivision complies. The
      development has vested. The vesting rule prohibits the City from revisiting those matters, and
      entitles the applicant to approval of the development application.
                                                    Review
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Michael J. Thayne, on behalf of Irben
Development LLC on April 15, 2014. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to
Rodger S. Worthen, City Administrator of Syracuse City, at 1979 West 1900 South, Syracuse,
Utah. 84075. The City received that copy on April 17, 2014.

                                                   Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Michael Thayne,
                 received April 15, 2014.
     2.          Response from Syracuse City, with attachments, submitted by City Attorney Clinton
                 R. Drake, received May 21, 2014, including past Syracuse City Ordinances, provided
                 by the City in its response, applicable to the development.
     3.          Various current Syracuse City Ordinances and Planning Commission Minutes,
                 available on the Syracuse City website.

                                                  Background
Under Syracuse City ordinances, subdivision development involves a three-step process. An
applicant first must obtain sketch plan approval, then preliminary plat approval, and lastly final
plat approval. If a development is also a cluster subdivision as defined in the City Code, the
developer must obtain a conditional use approval as well. According to the City Code, the
Syracuse City Planning Commission is the land use authority responsible to provide sketch plan
approval, preliminary plat approval, and conditional use permit approval. For final plat approval,
the Planning Commission and the City Council share the duties of land use authority, and the
approval of both parties is required.

Irben Development LLC is the developer of the Still Water Lake Estates, a cluster subdivision in
Syracuse City. This proposed subdivision consists of approximately 30 large custom home lots
bounding and abutting two lakes, as well as approximately 165 homes on smaller lots placed
some distance away from the lakes. While the 30 larger lots give their owners full access and use

Advisory Opinion – Michael Thayne/Syracuse City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 10, 2014 Page 2 of 7
of the lakes, the 165 smaller homes are separated from the lakes by a canal. Neither the 165
homes, nor the public in general, will have direct legal access to the lakes.

On June 8, 2012, the developer applied for initial sketch plan approval of Still Water Lake
Estates. The Syracuse Planning Commission held a public hearing for the sketch plan on July 17,
but the application was tabled. On May 21, 2013, the developer submitted an amended sketch
plan application, and after public hearing and review by the planning commission, sketch plan
approval was granted on August 6, 2013. On January 21, 2014, the Developer submitted an
application for Preliminary Plat Approval, and on March 2, 2014, the Planning Commission
granted that approval. Further, on May 6, 2014, the Planning Commission granted approval of
the cluster subdivision conditional use permit. It appears that none of these approvals have been
appealed by any party.

On April 8, 2014, the developer submitted an application for final plat approval. That application
is currently under review, and the land use authority has taken no final action. In its submission
for this Advisory Opinion, Syracuse City has raised four issues that it believes may justify denial
of the final plat application. Each of those issues center around the separation between the larger
lake homes and the smaller homes, and the lack of direct access to the lake by the smaller homes.
Specifically, the City argues that: (a) the layout of the development creates two distinct specific
user groups, thus violating Syracuse City Code § 10-16-010, which states that one of the
purposes of the cluster subdivision is to “allow the developer to more closely tailor a
development project to a specific user group;” (b) Syracuse City Code § 10-16-010 states that the
purpose of the cluster subdivision ordinance is to “encourage good neighborhood design, and
preserve open space while ensuring substantial compliance with the intent of the Subdivision and
Land Use Ordinances,” but the lack of connectivity or direct access between the larger homes
and the smaller homes does not provide good neighborhood design; (c) Syracuse City Code § 10-
16-040 states that “Property designated as open space on the landscaping plan shall be for the use
and enjoyment of the residents or community,” but lake access will be limited to the larger lots
that abut the lakes; and (d) Syracuse City Code § 10-16-050 requires that the homes in the
development have a common building theme which “shall show detail in the unification of
exterior architectural style, color, and size of each unit,” but the disproportionate lot sizes do not
demonstrate a unified architectural style.

                                                  Analysis
I.   The Vested Rights Doctrine Prohibits the City from Revisiting Previous
Approvals

           A. The Vested Rights Doctrine.

Utah’s vested rights doctrine exists to provide consistency and predictability in the land
development process. Simply stated, when a land use application conforms to the zoning
ordinance in effect, the applicant is entitled to approval of that application. “[A]n applicant for
subdivision approval . . . is entitled to favorable action if the application conforms to the zoning
ordinance in effect at the time of the application . . .” Western Land Equities v. City of Logan,
617 P.2d 388, 391 (Utah 1980).

Advisory Opinion – Michael Thayne/Syracuse City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 10, 2014 Page 3 of 7
The Utah Supreme Court discussed the policies behind this doctrine at length in Western Land
Equities:

           The economic waste that occurs when a project is halted after substantial costs
           have been incurred in its commencement is of no benefit either to the public or to
           landowners. . . . Governmental powers should be exercised in a manner that is
           reasonable and, to the extent possible, predictable.
           ....
           A property owner should be able to plan for developing his property in a manner
           permitted by existing zoning regulations with some degree of assurance that the
           basic ground rules will not be changed in midstream.

Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 395-6. The vesting doctrine is well established in Utah. The
Utah Legislature adopted this doctrine into the Utah Code at § 10-9a-509(1)(a):

           an applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the application
           conforms to the requirements of the municipality's land use maps, zoning map, a
           municipal specification for public improvements applicable to a subdivision or
           development, and an applicable land use ordinance in effect when a complete
           application is submitted and all application fees have been paid.

The rule in Utah is unequivocal. “Stated simply, [a] [c]ity cannot change the rules halfway
through the game.” Springville Citizens for a Better Community v. City of Springville, 1999 UT
25, ¶ 30. Thus, once a developer submits an application that complies with the requirements for
that application, that person is entitled to approval of that application. For example, if an
applicant makes concept plan application, and that application complies with the requirements
for concept plan approval, the concept plan must be approved. Once the developer receives that
approval, the developer is entitled to rely upon it. Thus the developer can expend further costs
and time moving to the next step with confidence that his efforts will not result in economic
waste.

           B. A City Cannot Revisit or Undo Previously Granted Approvals

In corollary to the above, once approval is given to an application, the application is deemed to
fully comply with local ordinances. Even if different local officials at a different time may feel
that an application may not comply with applicable ordinances, a developer is entitled to rely
upon the approval given as the final decision of the City. The application is vested, and the
developer can proceed with confidence and the protection of the law.

The Utah Supreme Court held that

           [i]t is incumbent upon a city . . . to act in good faith and not to reject an
           application because the application itself triggers zoning reconsiderations that



Advisory Opinion – Michael Thayne/Syracuse City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 10, 2014 Page 4 of 7
           result in a substitution of the judgment of current city officials for that of their
           predecessors.

Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 396. Vested development rights arise because an application
complies with zoning ordinances. A City Council or Planning Commission cannot change its
mind and revoke vested rights. The City does not have such authority. To hold otherwise would
counter the foundations of the vesting doctrine. Not only should a developer be entitled to rely
on the ordinances in place at the time of application, but a developer must be able to rely on the
City’s interpretation and application of its ordinances.

As with all laws, land use ordinances may be interpreted differently by different individuals.
Some may believe that a law should be applied one way, some another. However, the time for
debate on such matters comes before the development rights vest. Once a duly designated land
use authority votes on a matter, the vote becomes the interpretation of the City, without regard to
whether the tally for that vote was 5-0 or 3-2 or whether another group of individuals in the same
city would have reached a different decision. The developer is entitled to rely upon the official
decision received. “A property owner should be able to plan for developing . . . property in a
manner permitted by existing zoning regulations with some degree of assurance that that the
basic ground rules will not be changed in midstream.” Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d at 396.
This principle provides security for further expenditures of funds, time, and efforts, because the
Developer now enjoys the protections of the law.

There may be circumstances where previously granted approvals can be revisited, such as a
misrepresentation by the developer, a serious material mistake in fact by both parties, or
emergence of a compelling, countervailing public interest. See UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509. But
such event would be rare and exceptional. “Buyer's remorse” over previous approvals does not
constitute a compelling, countervailing public interest. Once vested, a developer is entitled to
rely on the vested right. The City cannot revisit previous approvals and take away a vested right.

II.        The City Has Not Justified Denying the Final Plat

           A. Final Plat Approval Involves only Those Matters Relating to the Final Plat.

In light of the vested right doctrine, a final plat application should not be viewed as one last
opportunity for the City to reject an application. As with all land use applications, once any
application in the development process vests, any matters addressed in that application are
deemed vested. Matters addressed and vested in previous applications are no longer subject to
review in subsequent applications. Instead, subsequent applications in the same development
process provide the City an opportunity to review for compliance and approve more detailed and
specific aspects of a plan that have not been previously shown on earlier applications.

Accordingly, final plat application will include details of final plat that were not previously
needed and not previously shown on a prior application. The final plat approval process then is a
review of the development for compliance with the final details and final plat requirements
contained in the local ordinance. A final plat application could be denied, for example, if the


Advisory Opinion – Michael Thayne/Syracuse City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 10, 2014 Page 5 of 7
developer refused to obtain certain signatures required for final plat or show on the plat certain
information that the ordinances mandate. However, final plat approval is not an additional bite
upon a previously eaten apple.

           B. The City Has Previously Approved the Layout and Design of the Development.

The objections raised by the City for this Opinion all relate to the basic layout and design of the
development – the locations of the lots, the relative locations of the lakes, and the restrictions
upon access to the lakes. These matters of layout and design are certainly not matters that would
appear for the first time in the final plat application. They are basic matters which certainly
would have been addressed at preliminary plat and conditional use application, and perhaps even
at sketch plan. When those applications were approved, the layout and design of the development
were approved and vested.

In addition, planning commission minutes reviewed for this Opinion contain multiple indications
that the layout and design of the development, including the issue of access to the lakes, were
discussed extensively in previous meetings. Approval was nonetheless given. The developer is
entitled to rely, and indeed has relied, upon those approvals. Now, at final plat, the City’s review
is limited only to those aspects not shown in previous approvals and final plat requirements
contained in the ordinance.

We further note that the issues raised by the City to show potential violations of ordinance are
subjective and subject to interpretation. None clearly show that the development violates the law,
nor that an interpretation that the development does not violate the law is unreasonable. The
ordinance sections cited are either vague statements of intent (“a specific user group”), subjective
preferences without enforceable standards (“good neighborhood design”, “common building
theme”), or of questionable applicability and legality (“landscaping open space is for the use of
residents”). The best that can be said of any of these is that they can be interpreted the way the
City has done (to varying degrees of reasonableness). However, each of these ordinances could
reasonably be interpreted in multiple ways. Although the City has well-argued its position, this
Office could find nothing here to compel a finding that the subdivision violated any ordinance.

Because zoning laws “are in derogation of a property owner’s use of land . . . any ordinance
prohibiting a proposed use should be strictly construed in favor of allowing the use.” Carrier v.
Salt Lake County, 104 P.3d 1208, 1217 (Utah 2004). Thus, interpreting the ordinances cited by
the City in favor of the development, as the City is deemed to have done by granting previous
approvals, is not only reasonable but is supported by the law and the rules of ordinance
interpretation.

Nothing could be found in this case to justify revoking the previously granted approvals. Each of
those matters could have been interpreted by a planning commission in multiple ways.
Nevertheless, even if those provisions strongly indicated noncompliance with the code, even to
the point where to find otherwise would be unreasonable, the City, by approving the applications,
has deemed them to comply. The development is vested. Final plat cannot be denied for the
reasons raised.

Advisory Opinion – Michael Thayne/Syracuse City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 10, 2014 Page 6 of 7
                                                  Conclusion
Because of concerns regarding the layout of the subdivision and access to the lake areas, the City
is considering denying the final plat approval. However, nothing has been shown to justify the
City doing so. Matters of layout and configuration of the development have been addressed
previously in the application process, and the land use authority has granted the City’s formal
approval of those matters. The development has therefore vested, and the developer is entitled to
proceed in reliance upon those approvals. The simple fact that the ordinances could be
interpreted differently, and would be interpreted differently by some, does not permit the City to
revisit approvals previously given.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Michael Thayne/Syracuse City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 10, 2014 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:


This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:


              Rodger S. Worthen
              City Administrator
              City of Syracuse
              1787 South 2000 West
              Syracuse, Utah 84075


On this ___________ day of June, 2014, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
