                     Advisory Opinion #146
                              Parties: Cleon Butterfield and Weber County
                                           Issued: October 31, 2014

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                            Conditional Uses

A local government has discretion to approve a conditional use permit if it
determines that the detrimental impacts associated with the specific use have
been mitigated by reasonable conditions. It is not necessary that all impacts be
substantially mitigated to the satisfaction of all potentially aggrieved parties, only
that the local jurisdiction is satisfied that they have been mitigated.




                                                DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each
Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was
prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes
or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide
general guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be
considered legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current
laws.




                     The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                                  (801) 530-6391
                     Utah Department of Commerce                                                 1-877-882-4662
                     PO Box 146702                                                           Fax: (801) 530-6338
                     160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                     www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                     Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                         propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 SPENCER J. COX           FRANCINE A. GIANI       BRENT N. BATEMAN
Lieutenant Governor       Executive Director      Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




                                               ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                   Cleon Butterfield

      Local Government Entity:                         Ogden Valley Township (Weber County)

      Property Owner:                                  Blair and Stacey Bowman

      Type of Property:                                Conditional Use (Dog Kennel)

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                   October 31, 2014

      Opinion Authored By:                             Elliot R. Lawrence
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       Issues
      Is it necessary to substantially mitigate all negative impacts before a conditional use permit may
      be approved?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
      A local government has discretion to approve a conditional use permit, when such uses are
      authorized by statute. Even generalized standards are sufficient to guide a land use authority’s
      decisions. The detrimental impacts specific to a proposed use must be identified, and conditions
      imposed to address the impacts. If reasonable conditions mitigate the impacts, the conditional
      use permit should be approved. It is not necessary that all impacts be substantially mitigated.

                                                     Review
      A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
      decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
      An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
      administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
      application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
      hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
      neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Cleon Butterfield on September 10, 2014.
A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Ricky D. Hirsch, Weber County
Clerk/Auditor, at 2380 Washington Blvd., Suite #230, Ogden, Utah. According to the return
receipt, the County received the Request on September 15, 2014.

                                                 Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Cleon Butterfield,
                 received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman on September 10, 2014.
     2.          Response submitted on behalf of Weber County, including attachments, received via
                 email from Christopher F. Allred, Weber County Attorney’s Office, on September 25,
                 2014.
     3.          Reply submitted by Mr. Butterfield, received September 30, 2014.

     NOTE: The property owners, Blair and Stacey Bowman, were also notified of this Opinion,
     but did not submit any response.
                                                 Background
Blair and Stacey Bowman own property in Weber County, which is part of the Ogden Valley
Township. 1 Their property is about 3 acres, and is located within an Agricultural Valley (“AV-
3”) zone. The Bowmans applied for permission to construct and operate a commercial dog
kennel on their property. 2 The Bowmans proposed a 30 x 50 foot building which would house
between 2 and 20 dogs. The building would include outdoor dog runs, and would adjoin a fenced
area with grass and trees. The Bowmans’ plan included a driveway with two parking stalls, and
possibly signage to identify the business.

In Weber County’s ordinances, a dog kennel is listed as a conditional use in the AV-3 zone. The
minimum requirements for conditional use permit (CUP) for a dog kennel as an accessory use to
a residential building are as follows:

           1) Minimum lot size: 2 acres

           2) No more than 10 dogs (10 weeks or older).

1
  A township is an area of a county established with its own local planning commission. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-
27a-306. A Township planning commission (like the Ogden Valley Township), performs the same functions as any
planning commission, including approval of development and other applications when authorized. The township
planning commission is subject to the ordinances of the County. Although the Ogden Valley Township acted as the
land use authority in this matter, this Opinion shall refer to Weber County as the governing jurisdiction.
2
  The kennel would be in a new structure. There is a home and outbuilding on the lot.

Advisory Opinion – Butterfield/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 31, 2014 Page 2 of 9
           3) Buildings shall be at least 100 feet from a public street, and at least 50 feet from the
              rear and side property lines, and 40 feet from a residential structure. 3

The Bowmans’ proposed Kennel met the minimum requirements. 4 The County’s staff
recommended these additional conditions:

           1) Insulation for the building, to minimize noise, and air conditioning to provide
              comfortable surroundings;

           2) A commitment to house “excessively noisy” dogs during the day, and to ensure that
              the Kennel is secure to prevent dogs from running at large;

           3) Strict observance of operating hours;

           4) A commitment to daily waste removal, including spraying for urine,

           5) Landscaping for the grass area (3 trees), and

           6) Two entrance signs.

The County staff recommended approval of the CUP with these conditions. 5 The Township
Planning Commission approved the CUP on August 26, 2014.

Cleon Butterfield owns property adjacent to the Bowman’s, and he objects to the Kennel. 6 Mr.
Butterfield does not believe that the detrimental impacts of the Kennel have been substantially
mitigated. Specifically, he states that noise concerns were not adequately addressed, and that the
Planning Commission should have required that the dogs be muzzled. 7 He also wanted more
landscaping to visibly screen the Kennel from the street and other properties. Finally, he argues
that the Commission did not consider other negative effects, including health, safety, traffic, and
parking. 8

Mr. Butterfield also argues that the Ogden Valley Architectural Landscaping and Screening
Design Standards should have been applied to the CUP, meaning that greater landscaping and
screening should have been required. 9 He reasons that the Kennel is a commercial business, and
3
  WEBER COUNTY CODE, § 104-6-5(2)(b).
4
  The building met the minimum distance requirements. The Bowmans proposed to house a maximum of 20 dogs,
but the County ordinance limits the number in an accessory structure to 10.
5
  Staff Report, CUP 2014-16, Ogden Valley Planning Commission, August 26, 2014. The Commission did not
discuss a limit on the number of dogs that could be boarded, other than what was expressed in the County Code.
6
  Mr. Butterfield owns two lots adjoining the Bowmans. He plans to build a home on his property, but no buildings
currently occupy the lots. Mr. Butterfield also stated that other property owners in the area are opposed to the
Kennel.
7
  Apparently, the Commission considered this idea, but rejected it as unreasonable.
8
  In the materials submitted for this Opinion, Mr. Butterfield did not identify specific problems in these areas, nor
did he suggest any conditions, other than additional landscaping.
9
  The landscaping standards are found at §§ 108-2-4 to -9 of the Weber County Code. Mr. Butterfield and other
neighbors argued that the Planning Commission should have applied these standards, but the Commission declined
to do so.

Advisory Opinion – Butterfield/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 31, 2014 Page 3 of 9
the County Code requires the more stringent landscaping requirements on commercial
businesses. The Planning Commission rejected this argument, because the Kennel is an
accessory use to the Bowman’s home, it is exempt from the landscaping standards.10

In response, Mr. Butterfield cites § 104-6-5(2)(b), which provides that dog kennels may be
approved as accessory uses for residential homes on lots of two acres, but that the number of
dogs is limited to ten only. 11 He argues that the exemption from the landscaping requirements for
an accessory use should not apply, because the Kennel is on a “conforming three acre lot” and
not a “nonconforming” lot (as stated in § 104-6-5(2)(b)). Hence, Mr. Butterfield concludes, the
Kennel does not qualify as an “accessory use,” and cannot be exempt from the landscaping
standards of §§ 108-2-4 to -9.

In addition to these objections, Mr. Butterfield also argues that the CUP should have been denied,
because the detrimental impacts of the Kennel were not “substantially” mitigated. The staff
report and the Planning Commission’s approval state that the negative impacts of the Kennel
could be “reasonably” mitigated by the proposed conditions. Mr. Butterfield cites § 17-27a-506
of the Utah Code, which provides that a conditional use permit may be denied if the detrimental
impacts of the use cannot be substantially mitigated by reasonable conditions. He argues that the
state law requires denial unless the detrimental impacts can be substantially mitigated. The
County’s approved conditions only provide “reasonable” mitigation, so the CUP should have
been denied (or at least have been subject to more stringent conditions).

The County maintains that the Planning Commission acted within its authority, considered the
impacts of the Kennel, and imposed reasonable conditions on its operation.

                                                   Analysis
     I. There is no Reason to Conclude That the County Abused its Discretion by
        Approving the Conditional Use Permit.

There is no reason to conclude that the County abused its discretion when it approved the
conditional use permit for the Bowman’s Kennel. The County’s ordinances specifically allow
dog kennels as conditional uses. The Township Planning Commission considered the impacts of
the Kennel, and imposed conditions meant to address those impacts. The County was thus within
the authority granted it by the Utah Code and its own ordinances.

           A. Conditional Uses

Local governments may designate uses as conditional, meaning that specific approval of each
use is required.

10
   Weber County Code, § 108-2-3 (“Single-family residential use and its approved accessory uses . . . are exempt
[from the landscaping standards].”)
11
   Weber County Code, § 104-6-5(2)(b). “Dog breeding and dog kennels on a minimum of two acres, on a legal
nonconforming lot, as an accessory use to a single family dwelling, limited to ten dogs of more than ten weeks old.”
The subsection also requires minimum setbacks for any buildings, which are similar to those found in Subsection
(2).

Advisory Opinion – Butterfield/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 31, 2014 Page 4 of 9
                   (1) A land use ordinance may include conditional uses and provisions for
           conditional uses that require compliance with standards set forth in an applicable
           ordinance.
                   (2)(a) A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are
           proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
           effects of the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards.
                       (b) If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed use
           cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the imposition of reasonable
           conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use
           may be denied.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-506. 12 The Utah Code anticipates four specific steps: First, a use is
designated as conditional in a land use ordinance; Second, standards are adopted to guide
evaluation of each application; Third, the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of each use
are identified; and Fourth, conditions are proposed to mitigate the detrimental effects. The use
shall be approved if the detrimental effects can be mitigated, and it may be denied only if the
effects cannot be substantially mitigated. The County has already completed the first step, by
designating dog kennels as conditional uses in the AV-3 zone.

           B. Applicable Standards

The Utah Code does not define “applicable standards,” nor does it explain the nature or extent
expected of the required standards for conditional use analysis. Several years ago, however, the
Utah Supreme Court deferred the choice of standards to a local government’s judgment:

                 While it is true that a zoning ordinance must set some ascertainable
                 boundaries on the exercise of discretion by a zoning authority, such
                 boundaries are not required to be unduly rigid or detailed. A generalized
                 exposition of overall standards or policy goals suffices to direct the inquiry
                 and deliberation of the zoning authority, and to permit appellate review of its
                 decision.

Thurston v. Cache County, 626 P.2d 440, 443-44 (Utah 1981). The reference to the design and
landscaping standards of the County’s ordinance thus provides sufficient standards to direct the
inquiry and deliberation of the Bowman’s conditional use application.

In order to be considered as a conditional use, a kennel must satisfy minimum criteria (that is,
minimum standards) including parcel size, setback distances, etc. Although the County admits
that its ordinance contains “very few” applicable standards specifically for dog kennels, the
Weber County Code provides general design and landscaping standards. Each application for a
conditional use permit shall include:

12
  “‘Conditional use’ means a land use that, because of its unique characteristics or potential impact on the county,
surrounding neighbors, or adjacent land uses, may not be compatible in some areas or may be compatible only if
certain conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-
103(6).

Advisory Opinion – Butterfield/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 31, 2014 Page 5 of 9
           Detailed building plans and site plans [sic] specifications shall be drawn to scale
           including electronic copies showing details and other applicable zoning
           requirements as which are outlined in chapter 1 of this title [Title 108] Design
           review, and chapter 2 of this title, Ogden Valley Architectural, Landscape and
           Screening Standards.

WEBER COUNTY CODE, § 108-4-3(1)(e). Thus, even though the Bowman’s kennel is exempt from
compliance with the Ogden Valley Architectural, Landscape and Screening Standards, the
Planning Commission could still look to those standards, as well as the Design Guidelines to
guide its decision on the Bowman’s application.13 It is within the Commission’s discretion to use
those standards when evaluating the CUP.

           C. Reasonably Anticipated Detrimental Effects

As part of its decision to grant or deny a conditional use permit, a local government must identify
the detrimental impacts associated with the specific use proposed in the application. This is
necessary to determine what conditions may be imposed to mitigate the detrimental effects. The
detrimental impacts, like all aspects of a conditional use application, must be established by
substantial evidence. Since local government is claiming the need for additional conditions to
address the impacts, the local government has the burden of proving both the existence of the
impacts, and the need for conditions.

The detrimental effects must be identified for each particular use in each particular location. The
negative effects of the specific use must be shown to be potentially detrimental to the
community, neighboring properties, or nearby land uses. It is not sufficient to merely cite
generalized conclusions about a use. 14 Moreover, the detrimental effects must be connected to a
distinct adverse impact on the use and enjoyment of nearby properties or the community at
large. 15 No detrimental impacts may be claimed without substantial evidence of a connection to a
negative effect.



13
   As noted above, uses accessory to a residential building are exempt from compliance with the landscaping
standards. This does not exclude the Planning Commission from referring to the landscaping and design standards as
a guide to decisions on conditional use permits.
14
   Uses are designated as conditional because of potential impacts on the county, neighboring properties or
neighboring land uses. Therefore, it must be shown that each specific use has impacts that detrimentally affect the
county, neighboring property owners, or nearby land uses. Any reliable and relevant information about a use may
serve as evidence of the use’s impact, including information based on past experience with similar uses; but all
information must be considered in relation to the specific situation being evaluated, and the impacts determined
individually for the each use. Generalized information is not by itself sufficient justification to determine detrimental
impacts.
15
   Conditional use permits are not evaluated “in a vacuum,” but as an actual use in an actual setting. The specific
location of the use, and the general characteristics of the surrounding neighborhood are relevant factors when
deciding both the extent of the impacts and the conditions which may be imposed. For example, the Bowman’s
property is located in a rural area. Mr. Butterfield noted the presence of dogs on other properties (he stated that a
dog barking could be heard approximately 900 feet away). Those facts are relevant to the Planning Commission’s
evaluation.

Advisory Opinion – Butterfield/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 31, 2014 Page 6 of 9
           D. Mitigating Impacts With Reasonable Conditions

Once detrimental impacts associated with a particular use have been established, reasonable
conditions to mitigate those impacts may be proposed and evaluated. Since the purpose of the
conditions is to mitigate the detrimental impacts, the conditions must directly address those
impacts. Conditions not tied to a negative impact cannot be imposed, even if they would be
beneficial to the community. As is the case with all land use decisions, the conditions must be
established by substantial evidence. 16 The land use authority may consider not only the
effectiveness of a proposed condition, but also the cost, convenience, and burden on the property
owner (among other things) could also be factors in the analysis.

In this matter, the Planning Commission required landscaping and building design conditions,
along with a requirement to curb dogs that were excessively noisy, and to remove waste on a
regular basis. These conditions appear to be appropriate and reasonably designed to address the
negative impacts expected from a dog kennel. In addition, the Commission limited the number of
signs for the Bowman’s business, which can be reasonably tied to reducing the overall impact of
commercial signs on the neighborhood. In all, there does not appear to be any evidence that the
conditions are unreasonable, or not connected to a negative impact. Thus, the Commission did
not abuse its discretion when it selected the conditions.

           E. “Substantially” Mitigating the Negative Impacts

The Utah Code allows denial of a conditional use permit only if the detrimental impacts cannot
be “substantially” mitigated. 17 Ultimately, the conclusion that the negative impacts have been
successfully mitigated rests with the Planning Commission. During review of a conditional use
application the Commission may solicit input from the applicant, planning staff, neighbors, and
other interested parties, but the final decision rests with the Commission. Even though neighbors,
staff, and the applicant may not be completely happy with the decision, the Commission must
decide, on behalf of the County, that the negative impacts have been sufficiently mitigated. 18

“Substantially mitigated” does not mean the same as “completely eliminated.” Any land use will
impact neighboring properties and the community at large. If a use is allowed in an area, the
local government has decided that the impacts of that use on the neighborhood and community
are acceptable. Uses may be designated as conditional because the impacts of the use require
closer attention and customized conditions to reduce the impacts. Those uses are allowed, despite
the impacts, if reasonable conditions address the negative effects.

16
   “A local government’s land use decision [concerning the granting or denial of a conditional use permit] is
arbitrary and capricious [only] if it is not supported by substantial evidence.” Uintah Mountain RTC. LLC, v.
Duchesne County, 2005 UT App 565, ¶ 19, 127 P.3d 1270, 1275 (alterations in original).
17
   See UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-506(2)(b).
18
   It is not necessary to mollify every neighbor or even the applicant, but the decision should reflect the County’s
satisfaction that the impacts have been mitigated. For example, in this matter, the negative impacts of the Bowman’s
dog kennel included noise from the animals. A neighbor proposed that all animals be muzzled, a condition which
would reduce (but not eliminate) the noise. The Planning Commission rejected this idea, but approved a condition
that noisy animals be detained in the kennel building. This condition also reduces, but does not eliminate the noise.
The Commission made the ultimate decision on how to best mitigate the noise impact of the kennel.

Advisory Opinion – Butterfield/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 31, 2014 Page 7 of 9
Section 17-27a-506 does not require that a conditional use permit be denied if detrimental
impacts cannot be substantially mitigated, only that a permit may be denied. Mr. Butterfield
argues that a conditional use permit may be approved only if the negative impacts are
substantially mitigated. He continues that since the Planning Commission concluded only that
the impacts could be “reasonably” mitigated (not “substantially”), the Bowman’s CUP should be
denied.

This argument, however, focuses only on § 17-27a-506(2)(b), and ignores the requirements of
subsection (2)(a). That subsection requires approval “if reasonable conditions are proposed, or
can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use . .
..” UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-506(2)(a). 19 The statute imposes no requirement that the impacts
be either “substantially” or “reasonably” mitigated, only that they be mitigated. It is within the
discretion of the Planning Commission to determine that the impacts have been successfully
mitigated to the point that the County is satisfied, and that the CUP should be approved.

           II. The County Code Limits the Number of Dogs to Ten.

Because the Bowman’s kennel is considered an accessory use to a residential building, the Weber
County Code limits the number of animals to ten. It appears that the proposed kennel was
determined to be an accessory use, as provided in § 104-6-5(2)(b) of the County Code. The
County concluded that the use is exempt from compliance with the Ogden Valley Architectural,
Landscape and Screening Design Standards, because it is an accessory use, under paragraph
(2)(b), as opposed to a primary use, under paragraph (2).

Kennels which are accessory uses may only house ten dogs at a time. Conditional uses in the AV-
3 zone include: “Dog breeding and dog kennels on a minimum of two acres, on a legal
nonconforming lot, as an accessory use to a single family dwelling, limited to ten dogs of more
than ten weeks old.” WEBER COUNTY CODE, § 104-6-5(2)(b). The Bowman’s proposed kennel is
accessory to their residence, and is on three acre lot. It is reasonable to conclude that this
language authorizes a dog kennel as a conditional use on the Bowman property. 20 That
subsection, however, limits the number of dogs to ten.21 It is not necessary to impose this limit as
a condition, because it is a requirement from the County Code.

                                                  Conclusion
The Planning Commission did not abuse its discretion when it approved the Bowman’s
Conditional Use Permit. A dog kennel is authorized as a conditional use on the Bowman’s
property, and the Commission adopted appropriate conditions to mitigate the detrimental impacts
of the kennel. The County Code indicates standards that may be used as a reference for the types
of conditions that could have been imposed.

19
   In contrast, subsection (2)(b) provides that a CUP may be denied if the impacts cannot be substantially mitigated.
20
    It would not be plausible to limit the language of subsection (2)(b) by allowing dog kennels on legal
nonconforming lots, with a minimum of two acres, and which are accessory to a single-family residence only. If the
property meets one of those criteria, a kennel may be allowed as a conditional use.
21
   The limit is ten dogs which are more than ten weeks old.

Advisory Opinion – Butterfield/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 31, 2014 Page 8 of 9
The Planning Commission has the authority to approve a conditional use on behalf of the local
jurisdiction. In doing so, the Commission has discretion to impose conditions that may mitigate
negative impacts. It is not necessary to eliminate the impacts, only to mitigate them to the point
that the Commission is satisfied. While the Commission should seek input from planning staff,
the applicant, neighboring property owners, and other interested parties, it is not required that all
parties be satisfied. The ultimate decision rests with the Planning Commission.

If reasonable conditions are proposed to mitigate the detrimental impacts, the conditional use
permit should be approved. The Utah Code does not require substantial mitigation of all impacts.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Butterfield/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 31, 2014 Page 9 of 9
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE ANN. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                      Ricky D. Hatch
                      Weber County Clerk/Auditor
                      2380 Washington Blvd., Suite 230
                      Ogden, Utah 84401

On this ___________ Day of October, 2014, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
