                   Advisory Opinion #101
                         Parties: Mike & Carri Blackham and Garden City
                                           Issued: July 6, 2011

                                        TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                      R(v): Other Topics (Interpretation of Ordinances)

Local governments may charge fees for services or benefits provided. Operating
a public water system confers distinct and tangible benefits on all properties
served by the system, whether the property owners actually use the water service
or not. A reasonable “standby fee” may be charged to properties which have not
yet connected to the water system. The fees charged must be imposed fairly on
all similarly-situated properties, and should be reasonably related to the costs of
providing the service or benefits.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN

   GREG BELL
Lieutenant Governor



                                         ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:               Mike Blackham

      Local Government Entity:                     Garden City

      Applicant for the Land Use Appeal:           Mike and Carri Blackham

      Type of Property:                            Residential Subdivision

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:               July 6, 2011

      Opinion Authored By:                         Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney,
                                                   Elliot R. Lawrence, Attorney,
                                                   Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                    Issues

      Can a city legally charge a standby water fee on vacant lots in order to pay the debt of a new
      water treatment plant?

                                       Summary of Advisory Opinion

      In Utah, local governments enjoy broad authority to carry out the duties and powers granted to
      them. This authority includes wide latitude on decisions to construct and operate public utilities,
      including discretion on how to fund such operations. Local governments may charge fees for
      services or benefits provided. Operating a public water system confers distinct and tangible
      benefits on all properties served by the system, whether the property owners actually use the
      water service or not. The presence of the system enhances the value and marketability of land,
      and all properties benefit from the fire suppression provided by hydrants included with the public
      water system. Given the broad authority and latitude afforded to local governments, and the
      benefits provided by public water systems, a reasonable “standby fee” may be charged to
      properties which have not yet connected to the water system.

      The fees charged, however, must be imposed fairly on all similarly-situated properties, and
      should be reasonably related to the costs of providing the service or benefits. Any distinction in
      fees based on ownership or physical characteristics of the properties involved must be justified
      by specific findings. Otherwise all similarly-situated properties should be charged an equal fee.
                                                Review

A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Mike and Carri Blackham on November 3,
2010. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to John Spuhler, Mayor of Garden City.
The city submitted a response to the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, which was
received on December 8, 2010. The Blackhams then submitted a response to that communication
on December 15, 2010, and the city submitted the final received response on January 10, 2011.

                                               Evidence

The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, including attachments, filed November 3, 2010
                 with the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman by Mike and Carri Blackham.
     2.          Response from Garden City, including attachments, submitted by John Spuhler, City
                 Mayor, received on December 8, 2010.
     3.          Response to response, submitted by Mike Blackham, property owner, on December
                 15, 2010.
     4.          Return Response from Garden City, submitted by Mayor John Spuhler, received on
                 January 10, 2011.

                                              Background

Garden City is located near Bear Lake, a popular vacation spot in Northern Utah. Along with a
few full-time residents, the city has many seasonal visitors who own property in the area. Some
properties owned by seasonal visitors contain cabins, vacation homes, etc. However, there are
many platted lots that are vacant and owned by out-of-town visitors, kept for future use and
development.

In 2001, Garden City was notified by the State Division of Drinking Water of a new water
classification which required the City to upgrade its water treatment plant. Garden City
understood that such upgrades would be very costly and were not optional. Because of the low
number of full-time residents, Garden City determined that it would be impossible or inequitable
to finance the cost of the new water treatment plant through only the full-time residents of the
Advisory Opinion – Blackham/Garden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 6, 2011 – 2 of 9 pages
City. After consulting with experts and legal counsel, the City developed a plan to fund the new
water treatment plant. This plan included augmenting the City standard water charges, and also
imposing a small standby water fee upon the numerous vacant lots in the City.

The standby water fee as imposed only applies to owners of vacant lots in approved and recorded
subdivisions, and would be $10.00 per month, per lot. The City further decreed that owners of
multiple lots that were contiguous with one another in these areas could “encumber” the lots and
would be charged only one fee for the group of lots, without regard to the actual number of lots.
This structure, the city believes, will help to pay the bond and recoup the cost of installing the
new infrastructure.

Mike and Carri Blackham do not live in Garden City, but own three noncontiguous vacant lots in
an approved subdivision within Garden City, numbered 113, 61, and 24. They have been charged
the standby fee for each of their lots. Their request to encumber the lots was denied because they
are not contiguous. Moreover, after failing to pay the standby charge, a penalty of nonpayment
has been assessed. The property owners challenge the fee.

                                               Analysis

I.         A Fee Imposed by a Local Government May Be Imposed to Recover Costs Incurred
           in Providing a Service or Benefit.

It is well established in Utah law that service fees may be imposed by government as cost
recovery for services or benefits actually provided. In V-1 Oil Co. v. Utah State Tax Commission,
942 P.2d 906 (Utah 1996), in the context of distinguishing taxes and fees, the Utah Supreme
Court discussed the concept of fees charged by government entities:

           [A] fee raises revenue either to compensate the government for the provision of a
           specific service or benefit to the one paying the fee or to defray the government's
           costs of regulating and policing a business or activity engaged in by the one
           paying the fee.

Id., 942 P.2d at 911 (quoting BLACK’S LAW DICTIONARY). The court went on to say that a fee is
“[a] charge fixed by law for services of public officers or for use of a privilege under control of
government.” Id. In addition, the Court held, for a service fee to be valid, the fee must “bear a
reasonable relationship to the services provided, the benefits received, or a need created by those
who must actually pay the fee.” Id. With this foundation, multiple cases and statutes in Utah
have discussed how government may impose various fees. Although each case examines a
different kind of fee, each consistently holds that fees may only be used to reimburse or defray
the costs of providing services to the payee of the fee. See e.g., Tooele Associates Ltd.
Partnership v. Tooele City Corp., 2011 UT 4; Board of Education of Jordan School District. v.
Sandy City Corp., 2004 UT 37, ¶24; Banberry Development Corp. v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d
899, 905 (Utah 1981); UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-510. A review of these and many other cases




Advisory Opinion – Blackham/Garden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 6, 2011 – 3 of 9 pages
leave no questions that service fees in Utah may be imposed to recover costs for services or
benefits rendered to the payee of the fee. 1

II.        The City Provides A Service to the Vacant Lots, Because the Availability of the
           Water System Enhances the Value of the Lots, and Provides Fire Protection.

Even if the Blackhams do not connect to the water system or use any of the water, they
nevertheless receive a service from the City, and may therefore be subject to a reasonable fee.
The Blackhams can readily access the system and receive water service if they choose, but they
receive a benefit even if they don’t connect to the system. The City’s water system contributes to
the value and marketability of the property, and provides water for fire suppression. Given these
direct and tangible benefits, and the broad grant of power to municipal governments to fund
construction and maintenance of waterworks, a standby fee is an acceptable means of raising
funds for water systems.

      A. Local Governments Have Broad Authority to Enact Ordinances Necessary to Promote
         Public Health, Safety, or Welfare.

In Utah, local governments enjoy fairly broad authority to carry out their duties and to promote
the public’s health, safety, or welfare. The Utah Code grants several specific duties and powers
to municipal governments, and also includes a general grant to

           pass all ordinances and rules, and make all regulations, not repugnant to law,
           necessary for carrying into effect or discharging all powers and duties conferred
           by this chapter [i.e., Chapter 10-8], and as are necessary and proper to provide for
           the safety and preserve the health, and promote the prosperity, improve the
           morals, peace and good order, comfort, and convenience of the city and its
           inhabitants, and for the protection property in the city.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-8-84(1). Cities are specifically charged with construction of water
systems. “A city may: . . . construct, maintain, and operate waterworks, sewer collection, sewer
treatment systems, gas works, electric light works, telecommunications lines, cable television
lines, or public transportation systems . . ..” Id. § 10-8-14(1)(a). In addition, cities may set water
rates (See id., § 10-8-22), and may enact and enforce ordinances governing the management of
water systems and protecting them from damage or contamination (See id., §§ 10-7-14, 10-8-15).
Finally, the Utah Legislature specifically enacted the following:

           Whereas, the purification of drinking water and the treatment of raw sewage are
           important to public health and create an unusual need for money with which to
           create proper facilities for the protection of the people of the state of Utah, it is
           hereby declared to be the public policy of this state to grant the privilege to
           municipalities to raise funds to improve the aforementioned health standards, to
           encourage the municipalities to provide that no waste shall be discharged into any
           waters of the state of Utah without first being given proper treatment, to provide
1
 Fees cannot be used to raise revenue or fund general government services. Such activities are funded by taxes. See
V-1 Oil Co., 942 P.2d at 911.

Advisory Opinion – Blackham/Garden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 6, 2011 – 4 of 9 pages
           for the treatment of water to be used for drinking purposes to protect the health of
           the citizens and to give municipalities the discretion to determine the priority of
           development of the facilities directed toward the elimination of health hazards and
           pollution of public waters.

Id., § 10-7-14.1 (emphasis added). 2

Cities have the specific responsibility to construct and operate water systems, and have the
authority to regulate the management and conduct of such systems. The policy of the state is
also to grant cities the privilege to raise funds to build and maintain water systems. In order to
carry out this important function, cities must have the financial means to fund its activities. One
reasonable and acceptable way for cities to generate the necessary funds to construct and operate
water systems is to charge a reasonable fee on all properties, including those which have not yet
connected to the water system.

This conclusion is supported by decisions from the Utah Supreme Court, which has long
recognized that local governments enjoy broad authority to promote the public welfare.

           When the State has granted general welfare power to local governments, those
           governments have independent authority apart from, and in addition to, specific
           grants of authority to pass ordinances which are reasonably and appropriately
           related to the objectives of that power, i.e., providing for the public safety, health,
           morals, and welfare.

State v. Hutchinson, 624 P.2d 1116, 1126 (Utah 1980). In Hutchinson, the court explicitly
rejected the “Dillon Rule,” which narrowly restricted local government authority to specific
legislative grants. 3 “[W]e will give local government much latitude in creating solutions to
problems . . ..” Price Development Co. v. Orem City, 2000 UT 26, ¶ 19, 995 P.2d 1237, 1245.

Thus, since cities have specific grants of authority to construct and maintain water systems, they
also have independent authority and much latitude to pass ordinances reasonably and
appropriately related to carrying out that authority. Moreover, the Utah Legislature has
determined that cities should have the privilege to raise necessary funds for water systems.
Given the statutory authorization and the broad latitude approved by the Utah Supreme Court, a
standby fee is an appropriate and reasonable means to raise funds for the construction and
maintenance of water systems. 4


2
  Cities are also authorized to impose a special property tax levy for water and sewer systems. See UTAH CODE ANN.
§ 10-7-14.2.
3
  The Utah Supreme Court expressed its position in unequivocal terms: “[T]he Dillon Rule of strict construction is
not to be used to restrict the power of a [local government] under a grant by the Legislature of general welfare power
or prevent [them] from using reasonable means to implement specific grants of authority.” Hutchinson, 624 P.2d at
1127.
4
  It is also worth mention that cities not only have the authority to construct water systems, but the State has given
them the specific duty to provide culinary water which satisfies minimum quality standards. Section 10-8-84 and
the reasoning in Hutchinson support a conclusion that cities also have much latitude to determine how to fund water
systems in order to comply with the State’s mandate.

Advisory Opinion – Blackham/Garden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 6, 2011 – 5 of 9 pages
     B. The Owners Benefit From the Water System, Even if They Have Not Connected to It.

The Blackhams receive a benefit from the water system, even if they don’t have a connection and
don’t actually use the water. The existence and availability of the system enhances the value and
marketability of all adjoining properties. Part of the value of the Blackham’s property is
attributable to the fact that the municipal water system is available and ready to be used. This
benefit is tangible and measureable. 5 In addition, even if the Blackhams do not connect to the
water system, they receive a very real benefit, because the system includes hydrants for fire
suppression. Although the Blackhams may never have the need for fire suppression, they
nevertheless benefit from the system’s existence.

In V-1 Oil, the Utah Supreme Court found that petroleum companies benefitted from a mitigation
fund, and so the surcharges which financed the fund were not taxes, but legitimate fees. The
case concerned surcharges for the “Petroleum Storage Tank Fund,” which was created to cover
damages from spills. Petroleum companies were charged an annual fee on each tank, along with
a fee on each gallon of petroleum sold. V-1 Oil challenged the surcharges as invalid taxes. The
company argued that because it received no direct benefit, the charges were taxes and had been
improperly enacted.

Ultimately, the court determined that “V-1 does benefit from the Fund because a spill at one of its
tanks would be covered by the Fund.” V-1 Oil, 942 P.2d 906, 916 (Utah 1997) (decision on
rehearing). This coverage, even if it was never needed, benefitted the oil company. Since there
was a benefit conferred, the surcharges which financed the Fund could be considered fees rather
than taxes. 6

If the Petroleum Storage Tank Fund provided a benefit to an oil company, then the City’s water
system provides a benefit to the Blackhams. The system directly adds to the value and
marketability of their property, and they have access to fire suppression if the need arises. Even
if the Blackhams never connect to the City’s water system, they nevertheless receive direct and
tangible benefits. Therefore, the City can charge them a fee which is reasonably related to the
Blackhams’ fair share of the costs associated with the system.

The Utah Supreme Court indicated support for such a conclusion in Home Builders Association
of Greater Salt Lake v. Provo City. 7 That decision concerned the validity of connection fees for a
sewer system. The court referred approvingly to a decision from New Jersey, which held that
both unimproved properties and actual users should contribute to the cost of a sewer system:
“[T]he unimproved property was benefitted by the improvement, and more specifically, the
unimproved property would benefit unfairly in respect to the capital cost and interest thereon as
may have been paid in the past by users of the sewer.” Id., 28 Utah 2d at 405, 503 P.2d at 453
(discussing Airwick Industries, Inc. v. Carlstadt Sewerage Authority, 270 A.2d 18 (N.J 1970)).

5
  It could also be argued that the system confers an “intangible” benefit upon properties within the City, because it
improves the overall quality of life.
6
  The court also considered whether the charges bore a reasonable relationship to the cost of the benefit. The court
deferred to the legislature’s judgment, and noted that there was no evidence presented that the charges were
unreasonable. V-1 Oil, 942 P.2d at 917.
7
  28 Utah 2d 402, 404-05, 503 P.2d 451, 452-53 (1972).

Advisory Opinion – Blackham/Garden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 6, 2011 – 6 of 9 pages
Other states have considered whether the existence or availability of a utility can be considered
“service” which justifies payment of standby or “privilege” fees. The North Carolina Court of
Appeals held that by making a utility service available, “a city has furnished a service, thus
authorizing it to set a rate for this service.” Ricks v. Town of Selma, 392 S.E.2d 437 (N.C. Ct.
App. 1990). The North Carolina court based its conclusion on state statutes authorizing
construction and maintenance of public utilities, and granting cities the power to charge fees for
the service. A similar conclusion was reached by the Michigan Supreme Court in Seltzer v.
Sterling Township. 8 Like the decision in Ricks, the Michigan court concluded that a state law
which authorized cities to set rates for public utilities included the authority to charge a
“privilege fee” to property owners who had utility service available, but did not use the service. 9

The Oklahoma Attorney General concluded that the broad powers enjoyed by local governments
include authority to impose a standby or privilege fee on properties which have not actually
connected to a public water system. The opinion concluded that availability of a public utility
was a “service” for which a fee could be charged.

           While Oklahoma law does not expressly authorize a city to enact an ordinance
           that imposes a fee to defray the costs associated with construction of a water
           treatment plant on persons residing within annexed territories who choose not to
           use the city water supply, the power may be fairly implied from the express grant
           of powers.

Question Submitted by Anderson, 2009 OK AG 29 (November 12, 2009). 10

In contrast, the New Mexico Supreme Court and the Texas Court of Appeals held that standby
fees were not allowed unless specifically authorized by their respective state laws. The New
Mexico decision concluded that standby fees were authorized for sewer systems, but not for
waterworks, due to unique language in the applicable state laws. 11 In 1990, the Texas Court of
Appeals held local governments were not authorized to charge standby fees. 12 However, in
1998, such fees were upheld, because the state legislature had approved them. 13

8
  123 N.W.2d 722 (Mich. 1963). The decision concerned a “privilege fee” charged to properties for water service.
9
  The Utah Code empowers cities to “fix the rates to be paid for the use of water furnished by the city.” Utah Code
Ann. § 10-8-22. The Michigan state law granted cities the power “to provide for the imposition and collection of
charges, fees, rentals, or rates for the service, facilities and commodities furnished by . . . public improvements.”
Seltzer, 123 N.W.2d at 724. Furthermore, “[w]ith authority being given to acquire or construct a public project . . . it
must necessarily follow that authority to pay for the project is at the same time granted.” Id.
10
   The Attorney General’s opinion included discussion of the Airwick Industries, Seltzer, and Ricks decisions (among
others), and a discussion of the broad powers granted to local governments.
11
   Chapman v. City of Albuquerque, 335 P.2d 558 (N.M. 1959). The court also concluded that sewer systems
benefitted adjoining properties whether the property was connected to the sewer or not. See also Kennedy v. City of
Ukiah, 138 Cal. Rptr. 207 (Cal. Ct. App. 1977)(standby fee authorized by state law); Central Iron & Steel Co. v.
Harrisburg, 114 A. 258 (Pa. 1921)(“ready-to-serve” fee upheld).
12
   See Graham v. City of Lakewood Village, 796 S.W.2d 800 (Tex. App. 1990).
13
    See McMillan v. Texas Natural Resources Conservation Comm’n, 983 S.W.2d 359 (Tex. App. 1998). The
decisions from New Mexico, and particularly those from Texas, demonstrate how the “Dillon Rule” narrowly
restricts local government powers.


Advisory Opinion – Blackham/Garden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 6, 2011 – 7 of 9 pages
In conclusion, Utah municipal governments enjoy broad powers and much latitude to construct
and maintain water systems, and to set the rates for the use of those systems. That broad
authority includes the power to establish reasonable standby fees to help fund construction of
public utilities. The availability of a public utility is a “service” to an adjoining property,
because of the direct and tangible benefits conferred, even if the property does not actually
connect to or use the utility. Since all properties benefit from the operation of a public utility, all
properties should bear a reasonably fair portion of the costs to construct and maintain the utility.

III.       The Fee Must be Reasonably Related to the Cost of Providing the Water System,
           and Must be Applied Fairly to All Similarly-Situated Properties.

As discussed above, for a service fee to be valid, it must “bear a reasonable relationship to the
services provided, the benefits received, or a need created by those who must actually pay the
fee.” V-1 Oil, 942 P.2d at 911. In this matter, nothing has been provided to show that the $10 per
month fee relates to the cost to the City to provide that benefit. Service fees are available for cost
recovery only, and may not provide an excessive profit to the City. 14 A fee must reflect the
reasonable cost of providing the service or benefit. Nothing has been provided to show that to be
the case.

Even with deference to the City’s discretion to set fees, it appears from the documentation
provided that the standby fee charged to vacant lot owners was, at worst, picked at random, and
at best, set by a determination of how much would necessarily be charged to pay off the debt
service, while maintaining service charges to actual users and full-time residents at an acceptable
level. The documentation reflects that this choice was not made hastily, and that the City
consulted a litany of experts in an effort to ensure that the fee was justified. Nothing in the
record, however, reflects that the fee was set to reflect the cost of providing any service or
benefit. Without such support, the acceptable amount for a standby fee cannot be determined.

Moreover, allowing lot owners to “encumber” their lots, and join multiple contiguous lots and
pay only one fee, indicates that the fee has been administered unfairly. Similarly-situated
property owners should bear an equitable share of the financial burdens for public improvements.
See Home Builders Association of Utah v. City of North Logan, 1999 UT 63, ¶ 9, 983 P.2d 561,
564. Each lot receives the same benefit. It has not been shown that contiguous lots under single
ownership are entitled to pay a smaller fee than non-contiguous parcels owned by the same
owner. Unless the City can justify the distinction, it cannot allow owners of contiguous lot to
pay less than the owners of non-contiguous lots. To allow otherwise requires property owners
with non-contiguous lots to pay not only their share of the cost for the benefits, but also a portion
of the share of contiguous lot owners. The fee must be charged equally to similarly-situated
property owners.




14
  The fees charged do not necessarily have to be exactly equal to the funding required. See V-1 Oil, 942 P.2d at 917:
“We [i.e., the Court] have held that a fee may exceed the cost of providing the intended service and remain
reasonable. Fee-setting bodies are entitled to flexibility in their legislative solutions to problems. The problems
they address are not susceptible of exact measurement.” Id. (internal quotations and cites omitted).

Advisory Opinion – Blackham/Garden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 6, 2011 – 8 of 9 pages
                                           Conclusion

Local governments have broad authority and much latitude to determine how to construct and
maintain public utilities. That authority and latitude includes discretion on how to fund public
utilities. Local governments may set utility rates, which reflect the reasonable cost to provide the
service or benefit of the public utilities. All properties receive direct and tangible benefits from
public utilities, whether the owners actually use the services or not. The value and marketability
of the property is increased by the availability of utility service, and all properties benefit from
fire suppression provided through public water systems. Since there is a benefit provided by the
availability of a public utility, local governments may charge a reasonable fee to all properties
adjoining the system, whether they actually use the utility or not.

The fees charged must be reasonably related to the cost of providing the service or benefit.
Exact mathematical equality is not necessary, but service fees should provide cost recovery only.
All similarly-situated properties must be treated equally, and any distinctions due to ownership or
the parcel’s physical characteristics must be justified by the local government.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Blackham/Garden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 6, 2011 – 9 of 9 pages
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy
of the State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are
arrived at based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this
specific matter, and may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in
another matter where the facts and circumstances are different or where the
relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his
understanding of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this
matter. Anyone with an interest in these issues who must protect that interest
should seek the advice of his or her own legal counsel and not rely on this document
as a definitive statement of how to protect or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not
binding on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is
the subject of an advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that
cause of action is litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved
consistent with the advisory opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause
of action may collect reasonable attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the
development of that cause of action from the date of the delivery of the advisory
opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the
opinions, writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights
Ombudsman are not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small
claims court, a judicial review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees
as explained above.




Advisory Opinion – Blackham/Garden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 6, 2011 – 10 of 9 pages
                              MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory
opinion to the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with
Utah Code Ann. § 63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental
entity in the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State
Department of Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the
address shown is as designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as
follows:

           Mayor Ken Hansen
           Garden City
           145 West Center
           Garden City, Utah 84028

On this ___________ Day of July, 2011, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal
Service, postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the
person shown above.




                             ________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
