                     Advisory Opinion #147
                          Parties: Camm & Jan Arrington and Town of Mantua
                                           Issued: October 31, 2014

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                     Exactions on Development
                                            Impact Fees

A fee charged to fund capital facilities (including water rights), which is imposed as
a condition of approval, is an impact fee, and must comply with the Impact Fees
Act. A fee that was not imposed as a condition of approval is not necessarily an
impact fee, but may be an exaction, which must satisfy rough proportionality
analysis.




                                                DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each
Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was
prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes
or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide
general guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be
considered legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current
laws.




                     The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                                  (801) 530-6391
                     Utah Department of Commerce                                                 1-877-882-4662
                     PO Box 146702                                                           Fax: (801) 530-6338
                     160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                     www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                     Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                         propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 SPENCER J. COX           FRANCINE A. GIANI       BRENT N. BATEMAN
Lieutenant Governor       Executive Director      Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




                                               ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                   Camm & Jan Arrington

      Local Government Entity:                         Town of Mantua

      Property Owner:                                  Camm & Jan Arrington

      Type of Property:                                Residential Subdivision

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                   October 31, 2014

      Opinion Authored By:                             Elliot R. Lawrence
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       Issues
      Is a “water supply fee” an impact fee?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
      A fee to help fund public facilities charged by an entity with authority to permit or deny a
      development application, must comply with the Impact Fees Act. An impact fee that does not
      comply with the Act is invalid and cannot be imposed. Required contributions that are not
      impact fees may still be exactions, which must satisfy rough proportionality analysis.

                                                     Review
      A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
      decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
      An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
      administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
      application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
      hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
      neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
      the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
      the courts.
A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Camm and Jan Arrington on May 29,
2014. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Robert Ash, of the Town of Mantua at
417 So. Willard Peak Road, Mantua, Utah. According to the return receipt, the City received the
Request on June 13, 2014.
                                                    Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by the Arringtons,
                 received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman on May 29, 2014
     2.          Response submitted on behalf of the Town of Mantua, including attachments,
                 submitted by Bruce L. Jorgensen, Olson & Hoggan, PC, received on July 3, 2014.
     3.          Reply submitted the Arringtons, received August 20, 2014.
     4.          Response submitted by Mantua, received September 10, 2014.

                                                    Background
Camm and Jan Arrington purchased a four-acre parcel in Mantua, Utah, intending to divide the
parcel, creating two lots, build a home on one (“the East Lot”), and sell the other lot (“the West
Lot”). In the spring of 2010, the Arringtons sought approval from the Town of Mantua to divide
their property. Representatives from the Town’s Planning and Zoning Committee assisted them,
and explained the requirements for subdivision approval.

One of the requirements concerned securing adequate water for the proposed development. This
requirement could be met by transferring water rights (or shares in a water company) to the
Town, or by payment of a “water supply fee,” for the purchase of water rights or shares. The
Water Supply Fee is calculated based on the projected water usage for a lot. For one of the
Arrington’s lots, a total 4.07 acre-feet was determined to be needed. 1

The Town explains that it implemented a policy to defer payment of the Water Supply Fee for the
first lot in a subdivision. The fee for that lot would be included in the impact fees paid due when
a development permit was approved. The Arringtons paid the fee, which totaled $12,769.26. 2
The subdivision was approved by the Town Council on June 3, 2010. 3


1
  The amount of water was the total projected annual use for culinary (indoor) water (.45 a-f), and outside watering
(3.62 a-f per acre). The area to be watered totaled about 1 acre, so the total water use was 4.07 a-f (3.62 + .45).
When the Arringtons subdivided their property in 2010, the applicable fee was determined to be $3,137.41 per acre-
foot, for a total of $12,769.26. An acre-foot is the volume needed to cover one acre with one foot of water.
2
  According to the information provided for this Opinion, the Town has not used the Arrington’s Water Supply Fee to
purchase water rights for the lots.
3
  The Arringtons paid the Water Supply Fee when the subdivision was approved. The fee was charged per lot. Since
the Town deferred payment for the first lot in a subdivision, the fee was required for only one lot. It appears that no
Water Supply Fee has been paid for the other lot.

Advisory Opinion – Arrington/Mantua
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 31, 2014 Page 2 of 9
Although the Arrington’s subdivision was approved in June of 2010, they did not immediately
begin construction. In September of 2012, they sold the West Lot to Frank Fullmer, who owned
the property adjacent to that lot. According to the Arringtons, the Water Supply Fee was not
discussed or included in the purchase of the West Lot. In November of 2013, the Arringtons state
that Mr. Fullmer requested that the Town approve a transfer of the Water Supply Fee they had
paid from the East Lot to the West.

In the fall of 2012, the Arringtons decided against building their new home, due to health
concerns. In December of 2013, Mr. Fullmer tendered a written offer to purchase the East Lot.
The offer included the “prepaid water impact fee.” 4 The Arringtons sold the East Lot to Mr.
Fullmer in April of 2014. The sale contract specifically stated that no water rights or water
shares were being transferred with the property. With the purchase in April of 2014, Frank
Fullmer owned both the East and West Lots, but, prior to that purchase, the Town Council had
evidently agreed that the Water Supply Fee could be “transferred” to Mr. Fullmer, although the
Arringtons have not approved of any fee transfer. 5

In addition to the Water Supply Fee, the Town also charges water impact fees. According to the
Town, the Water Supply Fee may be deducted from the water impact fee. 6 Thus, if the
Arringtons had built their home, their impact fees would have been reduced by the amount of the
Water Supply Fee they paid. As of the date of this Opinion, there has been no new construction
on either the East or the West Lot, so no impact fees have been collected. 7

Throughout the subdivision approval process, the Water Supply Fee was referred to as an
“impact fee,” including several times in recorded remarks by Town officials. The Town,
however, explains that the Water Supply Fee is not an impact fee, nor has it ever been, and that
statements calling the Water Supply Fee an impact fee are in error. 8 The Arringtons argue that
the Water Supply Fee is (or should be) considered an impact fee, and that they are entitled to a
refund, because they have not undertaken any development.




4
  November 27, 2013 Letter to Cam Arrington from Frank Fullmer (Offer to purchase Lot 2). This offer letter was
dated after the Town Council meeting on November 21, so it is possible that Mr. Fullmer was asking if it was
possible to transfer the Water Supply Fees so that they applied to the other lot, meaning that the Water Supply Fee
requirement for that lot would be fulfilled. Since Mr. Fullmer owns both lots, the transfer issue may be moot.
5
  It is not clear what the “transfer” of the Water Supply Fee meant to any of the parties involved. The Town
Council’s minutes from November 21, 2013 notes that “[t]he Council is in agreement that the water impact fees be
transferred from Cam Arrington to Frank Fullmer.” In the materials submitted for this Opinion, the Town clarified
that a fee transfer “could” happen, but only if the Arringtons agreed.
6
  Town of Mantua, Ordinance 2008-07-24A, § 7. (“Water rights portion of the Impact Fee to be waived if equivalent
water rights or shares are dedicated to the Town.”) The water impact fees include storage and other infrastructure
costs, in addition to water rights.
7
  If both lots are developed, the water impact fee for one of them will include the full charges for water rights,
because the Water Supply Fee has been paid for one lot only.
8
  The Town states that “impact fee” was used as more of a “generic” term for any fee charged to a new development
or subdivision, and that the Town’s ordinances clearly distinguish between impact fees and other types of
development fees.

Advisory Opinion – Arrington/Mantua
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 31, 2014 Page 3 of 9
                                                     Analysis
     I. The Water Supply Fee is an Impact Fee, and Must Satisfy the Impact Fees Act.

           A. The Water Supply Fee is an Impact Fee

                 1. The Water Supply Fee Must be Considered an Impact Fee

The Water Supply Fee is an impact fee, and is thus subject to the Impact Fees Act. An impact fee
is “a payment of money imposed upon new development activity as a condition of development
approval to mitigate the impact of the new development on public infrastructure.” UTAH CODE
ANN. § 11-36a-102(8)(a). Subdivision plat approval constitutes “development activity,” because
it is a “change[] in the use of land that creates additional demand and need for public facilities.”
Id. § 11-36a-102(3). 9 The Water Supply Fee fits that definition, because it is a payment of money
required as a condition of the subdivision plat approval. Since the Arrington's subdivision was a
change in land use that created an additional demand for water, the Town’s Water Supply Fee
must be considered as a type of impact fee. 10

This conclusion follows from the Utah Supreme Court's analysis in Washington County Water
Conservancy District v. Keystone Conversions LLC, 2004 UT 84, 103 P.3d 686 (“Keystone”). In
that matter, the Court reviewed a “water availability fee” imposed by the Washington County
Water Conservancy District when a developer requested water service. 11 Keystone Conversions
proposed a residential subdivision in Toquerville, and was required to secure irrigation water as a
condition of development approval. Keystone objected to the water availability fee, arguing that
it was an impact fee. 12

The Court disagreed, concluding that the district’s water availability fee was not a condition of
development approval, and so it could not be an impact fee. The Court reasoned that the
availability fee was not part of the approval process, because it did not authorize any
development activity. Id., 2004 UT 84, ¶26, 103 P.3d at 693. 13 If the fee had authorized
development activity, it would need to comply with the impact fees act.



9
   Development approval includes “any written authorization from a local political subdivision that authorizes the
commencement of development activity.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36a-102(4)(a). See also Call v. West Jordan, 614
P.2d 1257 (Utah 1980)(Impact fee imposed as condition of subdivision approval).
10
   The Water Supply Fee was imposed to purchase enough water rights to serve one lot in the subdivision.
11
   Keystone, 2004 UT 84, ¶ 6, 103 P.3d at 689. The Keystone decision did not explain the District’s justification for
the availability fee. The Keystone decision was issued in 2004, and cites a previous version of the Impact Fees Act.
The Act was renumbered in 2011, but the language of the previous act was preserved. See 2011 Utah Laws 47 (S.B.
146).
12
   Id., 2004 UT 84, ¶ 9, 103 P.3d at 689. Keystone argued that the water availability fee was “necessary predicate”
for subdivision approval, and was thus an impact fee under the definition found in the Impact Fees Act.
13
   “Although a developer would need the Water District’s written approval if he or she desires to connect to the
Water District’s System, a developer does not require the Water District’s approval in or to build on its own property.
Consequently, any approval given by the Water District does not actually ‘authorize the commencement of
development activity.’” Keystone, 2004 UT 85, ¶ 26, 103 P.3d at 693 (internal quotation in original). In 2010, the

Advisory Opinion – Arrington/Mantua
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 31, 2014 Page 4 of 9
           The Impact Fees Act contemplates that if an entity with the power to permit or
           prevent certain development activities imposes a fee as a condition of proceeding
           with development in order to fund public facilities and services that will be
           dissipated by the development, then that entity must satisfy the various
           requirements of the Impact Fees Act.

Id., 2004 UT 84 ¶25, 103 P.3d at 693.

The Water Supply Fee imposed by the Town of Mantua has the element that was missing in the
fee analyzed in Keystone. The Town had the power to permit or deny the Arrington’s subdivision,
and the fee was imposed to finance public facilities required because of the proposed
development. 14 Thus, the Court’s analysis in Keystone demands the conclusion that the Water
Supply Fee is in fact an impact fee.

                 2. The Water Supply Fee Does Not Qualify as Exempt From the Impact Fees Act

The Water Supply Fee is not exempt from the Impact Fees Act. It is not a “fee for project
improvements” because the proceeds from the fee are intended to purchase water rights for the
Town. Section 11-36a-102(8)(b) provides that some types of fees, including fees for project
improvements, are not considered “impact fees.”

           “Project improvements” means site improvements and facilities that are:
                  (i) planned and designed to provide service for development resulting
           from a development activity;
                  (ii) necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or users of
           development resulting from a development activity; and
                  (iii) not identified or reimbursed as a system improvement.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36a-102(14)(a). In order to remove the Water Supply Fee from the
definition of “impact fee,” it must be for a site improvement or facility that is designed to
provide service for the convenience of the users of the development. While the water rights
purchased with the Water Supply Fee are facilities which provide service needed because of the
development on the Arrington’s subdivision, and which are necessary for the convenience of the
future occupants of that subdivision, the rights are not exclusive to that lot. In other words, they
are not site improvements or facilities.

The water rights, if purchased, belong to the Town, and become part of the Town’s supply of
water for all of its residents. To illustrate, if a home were built on the West Lot, and the
occupants use less water than what is calculated for the property, the occupants would not be
able to sell or lease the “extra” water. The water rights do not belong to the property owners, and



definition of “development approval” was amended to include authorization from a water supplier to reserve a water
right. See 2010 Utah Laws 203 (S.B. 37).
14
   Water rights are “public facilities” under the Impact Fees Act. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36a-102(16)(a). The
Water Supply Fee was to be used by the Town to purchase water rights.

Advisory Opinion – Arrington/Mantua
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 31, 2014 Page 5 of 9
they are not limited to any single lot. Thus, they cannot be considered “project improvements,”
and the Water Supply Fee is not excluded from the definition of impact fee. 15

The Water Supply Fee must be considered an impact fee, because it meets the definition found in
the Impact Fees Act, despite the Town’s insistence that it is some other type of fee.

                   (1) A fee that meets the definition of impact fee under Section 11-36a-102
           is an impact fee subject to this chapter [Chapter 11-36a, the Impact Fees Act],
           regardless of what term the local political subdivision or private entity uses to
           refer to the fee.
                   (2) A local political subdivision or private entity may not avoid application
           of this chapter to a fee that meets the definition of an impact fee under Section 11-
           36a-102 by referring to the fee by another name.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36a-204. In addition, the Town’s officials referred to the Water Supply
Fee as an “impact fee” on numerous occasions, and the Town’s ordinances provide that the Water
Supply Fee may be deducted from the Town’s water impact fees. Finally, the Town’s policy
deferring payment of the Water Supply Fee for the first lot of a subdivision until impact fees are
paid for that lot bolsters the conclusion that the Water Supply Fee must be treated as an impact
fee.

           B. The Water Supply Fee Must Comply With the Impact Fees Act.

Since the Water Supply Fee is an impact fee, it must comply with the Impact Fees Act in order to
be valid. “A local political subdivision or private entity shall ensure that any imposed impact fees
comply with the requirements of this chapter.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36a-201(1). An impact fee
that does not comply with the Impact Fees Act is invalid and cannot be charged. By the Town’s
own admission, the Water Supply Fee does not comply with the Impact Fees Act. 16 The Water
Supply Fee is therefore invalid, and should be refunded. 17

In addition, even if the Water Supply Fee were a validly-imposed impact fee, the Arringtons
could claim a refund as provided in the Impact Fees Act:

           A local political subdivision shall refund any impact fee paid by a developer, plus
           interest earned, when:
                   (1) the developer does not proceed with the development activity and has
           filed a written request for a refund;
                   (2) the fee has not been spent or encumbered; and

15
   In addition, the Town’s water systems include water rights. See “Town of Mantua Impact Fee Analysis” (April 28,
2008. A “system improvement” (such as publicly-owned water rights) cannot be “project improvements.” UTAH
CODE ANN. § 11-36a-102(14)(b).
16
    In the materials submitted for this Opinion, the Town stated that the Water Supply Fee was not enacted in
accordance with the requirements of the Impact Fees Act.
17
   The Town imposes a water impact fee, which evidently includes the amount necessary to purchase water rights. If
the Arrington subdivision is ever developed, the water impact fees may ensure that the Town has sufficient water to
serve whatever development occurs on the property.

Advisory Opinion – Arrington/Mantua
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 31, 2014 Page 6 of 9
                       (3) no impact has resulted.

Id., § 11-36a-603. 18

     II. The Water Supply Fee is Also a Type of Exaction, Which Must Satisfy Rough
           Proportionality Analysis.

Even if the Water Supply Fee is not an impact fee, it would still be considered an exaction, which
must satisfy rough proportionality analysis. “A development exaction is a government-mandated
contribution of property imposed as a condition of approving a developer’s project.” B.A.M.
Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2012 UT 26, ¶16, 282 P.3d 41, 45 (“BAM III”). The
Water Supply Fee was mandated by the Town as a condition of the Arrington’s subdivision. It
therefore qualifies as an exaction. 19 “‘[M]onetary exactions’ must satisfy the nexus and rough
proportionality requirements . . ..” Koontz v. St. Johns River Water Management District, 133
S.Ct. 2586, 2599 (2013). 20

In order to be valid, exactions must satisfy the “rough proportionality” analysis found at § 10-9a-
508 of the Utah Code.

           A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in
           a land use application, . . . , if:
                   (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
           each exaction; and
                   (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
           impact of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-508(1). 21

The Utah Supreme Court observed that the language of § 10-9a-508 was borrowed directly from
the U.S. Supreme Court analyses in Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825, 107
S.Ct. 3141 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374, 114 S.Ct. 2309 (1994). (See B.A.M.
Development v. Salt Lake County, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 41, 128 P.3d 1161, 1170). In those two landmark
cases, the U.S. Supreme Court promulgated rules for determining when an exaction may be



18
   The Town argues that the Arringtons had the responsibility to ask if the Water Supply Fee was refundable prior to
paying it. However, under the Impact Fees Act, the governmental entity imposing the fee clearly has the
responsibility of ensuring that any impact fee complies with the Act.
19
   An impact fee is a type of exaction as well. See Keystone, 2004 UT 84, ¶3, 103 P.3d at 688. The analysis required
by the Impact Fees Act satisfies the “rough proportionality” analysis required for exactions.
20
   The U.S. Supreme Court explained that rough proportionality test “protects the Fifth Amendment right to just
compensation for property the government takes when owners apply for land-use permits.” Koontz, 133 S.Ct. at
2594 (citations omitted).
21
   Subsection (3) of § 10-9a-508 requires that any exactions for water interests must be limited to the amount of
water needed to provide service. It appears that the Town’s required Water Supply Fee is based on the amount of
water needed for one of the lots in the Arrington subdivision.

Advisory Opinion – Arrington/Mantua
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 31, 2014 Page 7 of 9
validly imposed under the federal constitution’s Takings Clause. 22 This has come to be known as
the Nollan/Dolan “rough proportionality” test, and that two-part analysis has been codified in §
10-9a-508.

The Utah Supreme Court further honed the “rough proportionality” analysis in B.A.M.
Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2008 UT 45, 196 P.3d 601 (“B.A.M. II”), which was a
second appeal stemming from the same development project at issue in the earlier decision. This
opinion explained that rough proportionality analysis “has two aspects: first, the exaction and
impact must be related in nature; second, they must be related in extent.” B.A.M. II, 2008 UT 45,
¶ 9, 196 P.3d at 603. The “nature” aspect focuses on the relationship between the purported
impact and proposed exaction. The court agreed that the approach should be expressed “in terms
of a solution and a problem . . .. [T]he impact is the problem, or the burden which the community
will bear because of the development. The exaction should address the problem. If it does, then
the nature component has been satisfied.” Id., 2008 UT 45, ¶ 10, 196 P.3d at 603-04.

The “extent” aspect of the rough proportionality analysis measures the impact against the
proposed exaction in terms of cost:

           The most appropriate measure is cost—specifically, the cost of the exaction and
           the impact to the developer and the municipality, respectively. The impact of the
           development can be measured as the cost to the municipality of assuaging the
           impact. Likewise, the exaction can be measured as the value of the land to be
           dedicated by the developer at the time of the exaction.

Id., 2008 UT 45, ¶ 11, 196 P.3d at 604. The court continued by holding that “roughly
proportional” means “roughly equivalent.” Thus, in order to be valid, the cost of an exaction
must be roughly equivalent to the cost that a local government would incur to address (or
“assuage”) the impact attributable to a land use.

Utah’s Supreme Court later summarized the analysis, tying the exaction to the needs created by
the development. “[N]ot only must the nature of an exaction relate to government purpose or
need (in that the exaction must alleviate the burdens imposed on infrastructure by the
development), but the extent of the exaction must also be roughly proportional to the
government’s need for infrastructure improvements created by the development.” BAM. III, 2012
UT 26, ¶26, 282 P.3d at 47.

In 2010, the Town of Mantua imposed the Water Supply Fee as a means of acquiring sufficient
water for the Arrington’s proposed home. However, that development was not carried out, and it
appears that for the foreseeable future, no development is planned for the property. The



22
   See U.S. CONST., amend. V. (“nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation”). The
Supreme Court has interpreted the Takings Clause as limiting a government’s ability to impose conditions on
development. Furthermore, “[t]he Utah Constitution reinforces the protection of private property against
uncompensated governmental takings . . . .” B.A.M I., 2006 UT 2, ¶ 31, 128 P.3d at 1168. See also UTAH CONST. art.
I, § 22 (“Private property shall not be taken or damaged for public use without just compensation”).

Advisory Opinion – Arrington/Mantua
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 31, 2014 Page 8 of 9
Arringtons have thus paid an exaction that is not roughly proportional to the Town’s need for
water. Since the exaction is not proportionate to the Town’s need, it should be returned. 23

                                                  Conclusion
The Town’s required water supply fee meets the definition of an impact fee, as provided in the
Utah Code. It was required as a condition of proceeding with the Arrington’s subdivision, and
does not qualify for one of the exceptions to the definition of “impact fee.” It is not related to an
improvement or facility exclusive to a single development, but is intended to increase the Town’s
water supply available to all residents.

Since the Water Supply Fee meets the definition of an impact fee, it must comply with the
Impact Fees Act, regardless of what name it is given. The Town admits that the fee was not
adopted in accordance with the Impact Fees Act, so it cannot be a valid impact fee. Since it is not
valid, it must be refunded.

Even if the Water Supply Fee were not considered an impact fee, it would still qualify as an
exaction, which must satisfy the “rough proportionality” analysis required by the U.S. Supreme
Court and the Utah Code. In summary, an exaction must be proportional to the public needs for
infrastructure attributable to the development. Since there has been no development on the
Arrington subdivision, the Water Supply Fee is disproportional to the impact caused by the
subdivision. If there is development in the future, the Town may require transfer of sufficient
water rights to meet the needs of the development.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




23
   As stated above, if homes are built on the lots, the Town could require as an exaction transfer of sufficient water
rights as a condition on a building permit (or enough funds to purchase such rights). If that exaction satisfies rough
proportionality analysis, it would be valid.

Advisory Opinion – Arrington/Mantua
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 31, 2014 Page 9 of 9
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                      Robert Ash
                      Town of Mantua
                      417 S. Willard Peak Rd.
                      Mantua, Utah 84324

On this ___________ Day of October, 2014, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
