                     Advisory Opinion #170
                    Parties: Destination Homes, Inc., Legacy Neighborhoods, LLC
                                 and Golden Land Management, Inc.

                                             Issued: July 19, 2016


                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                                                 Impact Fees



Kaysville City's requirement that Destination Homes pipe the Joe Hill Ditch is an
illegal exaction and a violation of Kaysville City ordinance. Kays Creek Irrigation
Company has unequivocally determined that it will not distribute water in the Joe
Hill Ditch. Therefore, no water will flow through the Joe Hill Ditch in the future.
With no water in the Ditch, requiring that Destination Homes pipe the ditch is an
illegal exaction, because the exaction does not solve a problem that the
development activity creates. Moreover, a requirement to pipe violates a Kaysville
City ordinance, which requires a ditch with no water to be removed.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI     BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director    Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:               Destination Homes, Inc.,
                                                     Legacy Neighborhoods, LLC and
                                                     Golden Land Management, Inc.

        Local Government Entity:                     City of Kaysville

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:             Destination Homes, Inc.,
                                                     Legacy Neighborhoods, LLC and
                                                     Golden Land Management, Inc.

        Type of Property:                            Residential Development

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:               July 19, 2016

        Opinion Authored By:                         Brent N. Bateman
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                      ISSUE
        Can Kaysville City require Destination Homes to pipe in the Joe Hill Ditch?

                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        Kaysville City’s requirement that Destination Homes pipe the Joe Hill Ditch is an illegal
        exaction and a violation of Kaysville City ordinance. Kays Creek Irrigation Company has
        unequivocally determined that it will not distribute water in the Joe Hill Ditch. This is within
        Kays Creek Irrigation Company’s sole discretion, and is a legal and enforceable decision under
        both the company’s Articles of Incorporation and State law. Shareholders will receive their water
        through the Weaver Lane Pipe. Therefore, no water will flow through the Joe Hill Ditch in the
        future.

        With no water in the Ditch, requiring that Destination Homes pipe the ditch is an illegal exaction
        under the constitutional Nollan/Dolan analysis. The exaction does not solve a problem that the
        development activity creates. Moreover, a requirement to pipe would violate a Kaysville City
        ordinance, which requires a ditch with no water to be removed.
                                                     REVIEW
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Stephen F. Noel, Attorney for Destination
Homes, Inc., Legacy Neighborhoods, LLC, and Golden Land Management, Inc. on June 17,
2016. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Linda Ross, Kaysville City Recorder
23 East Center Street, Kaysville, Utah.

                                                    EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

      1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Stephen F. Noel, Attorney for Destination
         Homes, Inc., Legacy Neighborhoods, LLC, and Golden Land Management, Inc. on June
         17, 2016, with attachments:
             a. Unsigned and notated plats of the Hill Farms Subdivision Phase 2C&3;
             b. Letter dated March 2, 2016 from David C. Wright, attorney for Kays Creek
                 Irrigation Company, to Andy Thompson, Kaysville City Engineer
             c. Letter dated May 10, 2016, from Scott Green, President of Kays Creek Irrigation
                 Company, to Andy Thompson, Kaysville City Engineer;
             d. Minutes of the meeting of the Kays Creek Irrigation Company Board, dated June
                 6, 2016.
      2. Letter submitted by Felshaw King, Attorney for the City of Kaysville, received June 28,
         2016.
      3. Letter from Mr. Larry R. Williams, Attorney for the five property owners on Angel Street,
         received July 18, 2016, with attached plats showing current permits showing piped ditch.
      4. Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation for Kays Creek Irrigation Company
         dated and adopted on April 1, 2006.


                                                   BACKGROUND
Destination Homes, Inc., Golden Land Management, Inc., and Legacy Neighborhoods, LLC
(collectively, “Destination Homes”), are the owners and developers of certain land located at 200
North Angel Street in Kaysville Utah, upon which they propose to develop the Hill Farms
Advisory Opinion – Destination Homes, Inc. et al
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 19, 2016 Page 2 of 7
Subdivision Phase 3. Along the northern boundary of that property sits an open irrigation ditch
known as the Joe Hill Ditch (the “Joe Hill Ditch”). The Joe Hill Ditch has historically delivered
irrigation water to the property. In addition, the Joe Hill Ditch has for some time delivered water
to certain other irrigators (collectively the “Ditch Users”) downstream from the property. The Joe
Hill Ditch is the source of all controversy in this matter.

The Kaysville City Council recently approved the plat of the Hill Farms Subdivision Phase 3.
But soon after approval the City imposed a requirement that Destination Homes fully pipe the
Joe Hill Ditch. Since that time, Kaysville has indicated that no building permits will be issued,
and no completion assurance bond will be accepted, until the Joe Hill Ditch is piped. This has
effectively stopped all development activity.

Destination Homes disputes that the City has properly imposed this requirement, and has
requested this Advisory Opinion. With its request, Destination Homes provided several
documents from Kays Creek Irrigation Company (“Kays Creek”).1 Those documents indicate
that the Ditch Users have been taking Kays Creek water through the Joe Hill Ditch for some
time. However, Kays Creek states that the Ditch Users have historically taken their water
through a different pipe that runs along Weaver Lane. According to Kays Creek, the Joe Hill
Ditch was created, owned, and maintained by Joe Hill, the predecessor in interest to Destination
Homes, and through it provided Kays Creek water to his property. Kays Creek states that the
Ditch Users began using the Joe Hill Ditch with the permission of Mr. Hill because delivery of
water through the Joe Hill Ditch was more convenient and did not require the Ditch Users to take
irrigation turns.

The Ditch Users claim that the long-term use of the Joe Hill Ditch has given rise to a prescriptive
easement for water conveyance across the Destination Homes property, as well as a right to
receive their water through the Joe Hill Ditch. The documents from Kays Creek Irrigation
Company argue that the Ditch Users do not have a prescriptive easement across the Destination
Homes property, due to the use of the Joe Hill Ditch being permissive. Those documents further
state that the irrigation company has formally decided to no longer distribute water to the Joe
Hill Ditch. Although the Ditch Users are entitled to receive their shares of water, Kays Creek has
concluded that that the Ditch Users have an adequate means of obtaining water through the
Weaver Lane pipe. Thus, from the irrigation company’s standpoint, the Joe Hill Ditch is dry.

Kaysville City believes that it must require Destination Homes to pipe the Joe Hill Ditch because
the parties are in a dispute over whether there is a valid easement for the Ditch Users and
whether the Ditch Users are entitled to delivery of water from the irrigation company. Therefore,
according to the City, it cannot be stated with factual or legal certainty that the Joe Hill Ditch
will not carry water in the future. The City finds that until the rights of the Ditch Users to use the
Joe Hill Ditch are resolved with some certainty, the City cannot assume that the Joe Hill Ditch
will not be used. Thus, the City believes that it cannot allow Destination Homes to fill in the Joe
Hill Ditch and must require that it be piped.


1
  Kays Creek is not a participant in this Advisory Opinion. The Ditch Users, through their attorney, have submitted
information in order only to assist this office to better understand the situation and render a complete opinion. The
Ditch Users have noted that the Advisory Opinion is not a determination of the rights of the Ditch Users.
Advisory Opinion – Destination Homes, Inc. et al
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 19, 2016 Page 3 of 7
Destination Homes challenges whether Kaysville City can legally require it to pipe the Joe Hill
Ditch. In support of its position, Destination Homes argues that the requirement to pipe (1) is an
illegal excessive exaction, (2) is a violation of Kaysville City ordinance, (3) is unauthorized due
to the previous final approval of plans, and (4) is arbitrary and capricious. Moreover, Destination
Homes argues that Kaysville is illegally prohibiting them from proceeding with the development
by refusing to permit them to bond for the improvements to the Joe Hill Ditch.


                                                    ANALYSIS
I.       The Ditch Users Do Not Have a Legal Right to Receive Water in the Joe Hill Ditch

Some legitimate question and controversy exists regarding whether or not the Ditch Users have a
prescriptive ditch easement across the Destination Homes property. Despite the certainty in the
letter from Kays Creek that the Ditch Users do not have an easement, the parties simply have not
provided sufficient evidence or legal authority to resolve the matter.2 Thus, based on the
evidence provided, neither this Office, nor Kaysville City, nor Kays Creek, can resolve with
certainty whether or not the Ditch Users have a valid prescriptive easement across the
Destination Homes property.3

Accordingly, this Advisory Opinion will, as the City must, presume that the Ditch Users do have
a prescriptive easement in the Joe Hill Ditch. An easement would give them the right to cross the
Destination Homes property with water. However, even if an easement exists, that prescriptive
easement would not give the Ditch Users the right to access the water.

In fact, the Ditch Users do not have the right to receive their water through the Joe Hill Ditch. A
letter from the attorney for Kays Creek Irrigation, David C. Wright of Mabey, Wright, and James,
another letter from Scott Green, the President of Kays Creek Irrigation, and Minutes of the June
6, 2016 Kays Creek Irrigation Company Board of Directors Meeting all show an unequivocal 4
decision from Kays Creek Irrigation Company not to provide water in the Joe Hill Ditch. Thus,
the Joe Hill Ditch, whether a valid easement or not, will remain dry.

This decision not to provide water in the Joe Hill Ditch is legal and within the full discretion of
Kays Creek’s Board. Kays Creek has the responsibility to reasonably provide the Ditch Users
with the water represented by their water shares. See Swasey v. Rocky Point Ditch Co., 617 P.2d
375, 379 (Utah 1980). However, the Ditch Users are not entitled to receive that water in any

2
  The Kays Creek documents claim that the Ditch was used permissively by the Ditch Users. They conclude,
therefore, that the Ditch Users do not have a prescriptive easement to use the Ditch due to failure to show adverse
use. However, no evidence better than hearsay has been provided to support the claim of permissive use. To the
contrary, the statute imposes a presumption of adverse use. UTAH CODE § 57-13a-102(2). Perhaps the evidence of
permissive use exists, but that evidence has not been provided, so adverse use must be presumed.
3
  The City has acted with admirable and proper caution in this respect. The City does not have the authority to
determine the victor between contesting claimants to interest in land. That authority lies exclusively with the courts.
4
  The City’s submissions indicate a belief that Kays Creek’s decision to not provide water into the Ditch is not
certain. The reason for this doubt is not explained. To the contrary, the indications from Kays Creek are quite firm
and definite. The Minutes of the meeting of the Kays Creek Board of Directors dated June 6, 2016 state that the
Board made the unanimous decision that “Kays Creek Irrigation will not provide water down the Joe Hill ditch.”
Advisory Opinion – Destination Homes, Inc. et al
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 19, 2016 Page 4 of 7
certain way or by any particular path. See id. As long as Kays Creek provides that water, Kays
Creek has sole discretion to determine how that water is distributed. The Articles of
Incorporation of the Kays Creek Irrigation Company state that:

            Each share of stock shall have an equal right to all water sources of the
            Corporation, but the Directors at their sole discretion shall determine and manage
            the distribution of water to the members.

Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation for Kays Creek Irrigation Company, Article IV
(emphasis added). Furthermore, the Utah Supreme Court in Arnold v. Huntington Canal &
Reservoir Assn, 231 P. 622, 624 (1924), stated that “no one…can legally complain, of the
manner in which the [irrigation corporation] conveys its water, or through which ditch it takes
and delivers the same to its members and water users, so long as each member or stockholder
obtains the amount of water he is entitled to, and obtains it where he can put it to the use
contemplated by him.”

Accordingly, the Ditch Users have the right to receive water. But Kays Creek has full discretion
to manage and control the distribution of that water. This is true whether or not an easement
exists. Therefore, the decision by Kays Creek to not provide water in the Joe Hill Ditch, and
instead to provide water to the Ditch Users through the Weaver Lane pipe, is valid and
enforceable against the company shareholders. The unequivocal decision by Kays Creek to not
permit water in the Joe Hill Ditch is within the Board’s discretion. The Joe Hill Ditch is dry.

II.      Kaysville’s requirement that Destination Homes Pipe the Joe Hill Ditch is an Illegal
         Exaction

The Irrigation Company has unequivocally stated that “Kays Creek Irrigation will not provide
water down the Joe Hill Ditch.” Minutes of the Kays Creek Irrigation Company Board, June 6,
2016. Accordingly, without water in the Joe Hill Ditch, the requirement that Destination Homes
pipe the Joe Hill Ditch is an illegal exaction in violation of the Constitution of the United States.

An exaction is a government-mandated contribution of property imposed as a condition of
development approval. B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake Cnty. (BAM III), P.3d 1161, 1168 (Utah
2012). Exactions are valid only if they satisfy the “rough proportionality” analysis adopted by
the U.S. Supreme Court and the Utah Supreme Court, and codified in the Utah Code:

            A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in a land
            use application, including,… an exaction for a water interest, if:

                  (a)      an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
                           exaction; and,

                  (b)      each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact
                           of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1). The purpose of this test is to effectuate the protections guaranteed
by the Takings Clause, which is “to bar Government from forcing some people alone to bear

Advisory Opinion – Destination Homes, Inc. et al
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 19, 2016 Page 5 of 7
public burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.”
Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960).5 Thus, Kaysville City may require that
Destination Homes pipe the Joe Hill Ditch, “so long as there is a ‘nexus’ [or link] and ‘rough
proportionality’ between the property that the government demands and the social costs of the
applicant’s proposal.” Koontz v. St. Johns River Water Management District, 133 S.Ct. 2586,
2595 (2013).6 The City bears the burden of showing that its proposed exaction satisfies the rough
proportionality test.7

The language of § 10-9a-508 was borrowed directly from the U.S. Supreme Court decisions in
Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S
374 (1994). See B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake Cnty. (B.A.M. I), 128 P.3d 1161, 1170 (Utah
2006). In those two landmark cases, the U.S. Supreme Court promulgated rules for determining
when an exaction may be validly imposed under the federal Constitution’s Takings Clause. This
has come to be known as the Nollan/Dolan “rough proportionality” test.

Relevant to our discussion here, the rough proportionality analysis was honed by the Utah
Supreme Court in B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County (B.A.M. II), 196 P.3d 601
(Utah 2008). In that opinion, the Court explained that rough proportionality analysis “has two
aspects: first, the exaction and impact must be related in nature; second, they must be related in
extent.” Id. at 603. The “nature” aspect focuses on the relationship between the purported impact
and proposed exaction. The Court described the approach “in terms of a solution and a problem .
. . [T]he impact is the problem, or the burden which the community will bear because of the
development. The exaction should address the problem. If it does, then the nature component has
been satisfied.” Id., at 603-04.8

The City’s requirement that Destination Homes pipe the Joe Hill Ditch fails this portion of the
analysis. In terms of a problem and a solution, the requirement to pipe the Joe Hill Ditch does not
solve a problem that Destination Homes has created. There will be no water for the pipe to carry.
Destination Homes’ activity certainly is having an impact in Kaysville City, and there are
certainly legal and proportionate exactions that Kaysville could impose to address those impacts.
But an exaction must solve a problem that the development activity creates. If there is to be no
water in the Joe Hill Ditch, the requirement to pipe the Joe Hill Ditch does not solve any
problem. Therefore, that requirement that the Joe Hill Ditch be piped fails the constitutional
exaction analysis and the requirement to do so is therefore invalid.




5
  The Takings Clause of the Federal Constitution is found in Fifth Amendment, and is made applicable to the states
by the Fourteenth Amendment. See Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U.S. 226, 239 (1897). In addition,
“[t]he Utah Constitution reinforces the protection of private property against uncompensated governmental takings
in article I, section 22, Utah Constitution.” B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake Cnty. (BAM I), P.3d 1161, 1168 (Utah
2006).
6
  See also id., 128 P.3d at 1170 (Utah 2006).
7
  See Dolan v. Tigard, 512 U.S. 374, 391 (1994).
8
  The “extent” aspect of the rough proportionality analysis measures the impact against the proposed exaction in
terms of cost; the cost of an exaction must be roughly equivalent to the cost that a local government would incur to
address (or “assuage”) the impact attributable to a land use.
Advisory Opinion – Destination Homes, Inc. et al
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 19, 2016 Page 6 of 7
III. The Requirement Violates the Kaysville City Ordinances

Likewise, Kaysville City Ordinance 19-6-3(6)(a) states as follows:

            All gravity flow ditches through which water will continue to flow within a
            subdivision after its completion, whether to serve as irrigation water and/or waste
            flow to go from any adjacent property, shall remain in use and be piped with a
            minimum pipe size of at least 15 inches and shall be approved by the city
            engineer and irrigation provider. Irrigation ditches which will not carry irrigation
            water and/or waste flow shall be removed.

Kaysville City Ordinance 19-6-3(6)(a) (emphasis added). Kays Creek has unequivocally
determined that the Joe Hill Ditch will not carry water. Accordingly, by the plain language of this
ordinance, the Joe Hill Ditch must be removed. The requirement that Destination Homes pipe the
Joe Hill Ditch violates that ordinance.


                                                   CONCLUSION
This issue turns on whether there will be water in the Joe Hill Ditch. Insufficient evidence has
been provided to determine whether the Ditch Owners have a prescriptive easement in the Joe
Hill Ditch. However, even assuming that they do, more than sufficient evidence has been
provided to show that that the Kays Creek Irrigation Company will not provide water in the Joe
Hill Ditch. That decision is within Kay’s Creek’s discretion under both the Articles of
Incorporation and Utah law. Accordingly, this is a fact upon which the City can rely.

Because there will be no water, the requirement that Destination Homes pipe the Joe Hill Ditch is
both an illegal excessive constitutional exaction, and a violation of Kaysville City ordinances.
The City therefore has an obligation to remove or amend the piping condition.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Destination Homes, Inc. et al
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 19, 2016 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in UTAH CODE § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:



                      Maria Devereux, City Recorder
                      City of Kaysville
                      23 East Center Street
                      Kaysville, Utah 84037


On this ___________ Day of July, 2016, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
