                     Advisory Opinion #121
                               Parties: Matthew M. Stewart and Provo City
                                            Issued: March 15, 2013

                                          TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                        D: Exactions on Development


A government entity may require a developer to contribute to public facilities, but
only to the extent necessitated by the impact of the development. Any required
contribution over and above what is needed is an exaction, Voluntary contribution
to public facilities would not be considered an exaction, and a developer could not
claim compensation. A suit claiming compensation for a property taking should
not be unduly restricted by statute or rule.




                                                DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each
Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was
prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes
or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide
general guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be
considered legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current
laws.




                     The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                                  (801) 530-6391
                     Utah Department of Commerce                                                 1-877-882-4662
                     PO Box 146702                                                           Fax: (801) 530-6338
                     160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                     www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                     Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                         propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   GREG BELL
Lieutenant Governor


                                         ADVISORY OPINION
      Advisory Opinion Requested by:               Matthew M. Stewart

      Local Government Entity:                     Provo City

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:         Bilogio, LLC
                                                   Sunridge Development, LLC

      Type of Property:                            Residential Subdivision

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:               March 15, 2013

      Opinion Authored By:                         Elliot R. Lawrence
                                                   Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                   Issues
      When is a developer entitled to compensation for construction of public facilities?

      Is a new developer entitled to compensation for work completed by a prior owner?

      May a person or entity pursue a lawsuit claiming compensation for a property taking?

                                   Summary of Advisory Opinion
      It is not possible for this Opinion to determine if the developer is entitled to compensation,
      because not enough information has been provided. Utah Law is very clear that a local
      government may only require dedication or construction of public facilities to the extent
      necessitated by the impact of the new development. Any required dedication over and above
      what is needed due to the development’s impact is excessive, and would possibly require
      compensation. However, compensation would only be required if the dedication were
      mandatory. Voluntary contribution to a public facility would not necessarily require
      compensation.

      A new developer would not automatically be entitled to compensation for work done by the
      previous owner, unless an agreement provides otherwise. A new developer, however, may
      assume responsibility for a specific development that has already been approved, and would be
      entitled to any privileges extended to the previous owner.
A person or entity may pursue a lawsuit claiming compensation for a property taking, based on
constitutional protections. Because a takings claim is based on constitutionally-protected rights,
a suit may not be unduly restricted by statute or rule, although there are procedural requirements
that must be followed.


                                               Review
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-
205. An Advisory Opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this Opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Matthew M. Stewart on June 14, 2012. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Janene Weiss, City Recorder for Provo City, at
351 W. Center Street, Provo, Utah. 84601. The City received that copy on June 18, 2012.

                                              Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Matthew M.
                 Stewart, of Bilogio, LLC, received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                 on June 14, 2012.
     2.          Response from Provo City, submitted by Wayne C. Parker, Chief Administrative
                 Officer, received July 6, 2012.
     3.          Letter from Bruce R. Baird, attorney for Sundridge Development, LLC, received on
                 September 24, 2012.
     4.          Response from Provo City, submitted by Robert Trombly, Assistant City Attorney,
                 received on October 30, 2012.

                                             Background
For many years, Sunridge Development, LLC (“Sunridge”) had an interest in property located
near Slate Canyon, in the foothills on the eastern side of Provo. The property is directly in the
path of the natural drainage from the canyon. Because stormwater runoff is a particular problem,
any development on the property must accommodate drainage. When the property was acquired


Advisory Opinion – Stewart/Provo City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 15, 2013 Page 2 of 9
in 1981, the property could be potentially be accessed from seven different streets. Because of
economic conditions, development activity on the property was repeatedly delayed. Bilogio
LLC, the current owner objects to the City’s assessment of impact fees on the development.

The property was used for gravel extraction up until 1981, when Sunridge’s predecessor
company acquired it, intending to develop the property for residential uses. 1 According to
Sunridge, when the property was acquired in 1981, it was unsafe and unsightly, due to the gravel
extraction activities. Sunridge began to rehabilitate the property, and Provo City granted a
zoning change and preliminary approval of a development including a maximum of 774
residential units. Although Sunridge intended to develop the area, economic conditions forced
them to suspend activity for several years. It is not clear what, if any, development approvals
were granted in 1981.

In the mid-1990s, Sunridge was again able to consider development, and proposed a subdivision
similar to the 1981 plan. The Provo City Planning Commission reduced the number of units, and
also eliminated five of the seven possible access routes. Later, the City’s Board of Adjustment
restored one of the access points, meaning that the property had three possible access routes. As
part of the approval, the City required that Sunridge construct a new road, connecting Slate
Canyon Drive to 300 South Street. Sunridge objected to that requirement, pointing out that three
separate traffic studies had each concluded that the connection was not necessary for the
development, and that the City had eliminated four alternative access points. However, in the
spring of 1997, the City and Sunridge agreed to split the cost of the new road, and construction
was completed. Sunridge claims that the City should reimburse it further for that road. 2

Sunridge also completed improvements to accommodate drainage on the property. A drainage
channel was moved to carry runoff to the City’s stormwater system. Sunridge maintains that the
City originally agreed to assist with the channel realignment by providing construction
equipment. However, Sunridge states that the City eventually withdrew from participating,
because the City’s equipment was not suitable for the type of work being done. 3 Sundridge
eventually completed work on the channel at its own expense, including rental of heavy
equipment.

After the channel was relocated, the City informed Sunridge that the channel was too small,
particularly for debris. 4 Sundridge states that the City required additional drainage and control
1
  According to the applicant for this Opinion, the predecessor company was Bow Valley Development Corporation,
which acquired the parcel through a foreclosure sale. Bow Valley became Sunrdige Development, LLC, which was
the entity involved in most of the history regarding the property. The present owner of the property is Bilogio, LLC,
which has applied for development approval. For the sake of clarity, the property owner will be referred to as
Sunridge, because that company’s activities appear to be central to the dispute.
2
  The City explains that the Slate Canyon Connector was built before the City charged road impact fees, and that the
City has already granted a “100% credit” towards road impact fees for the Sunridge development. Sunridge
evidently still objects to the road alignment, and feels that it is entitled to reimbursement for its share of the
construction costs.
3
  According to the materials submitted for this Opinion, the City felt that its equipment would be damaged by the
work, which involved removal of concrete and large rocks.
4
  Sunridge states that the City approved the design of the relocated channel prior to construction, and that the
channel’s capacity is 850 cubic feet per second.

Advisory Opinion – Stewart/Provo City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 15, 2013 Page 3 of 9
facilities to handle runoff. Sunridge objects to this additional requirement because it feels that
had the City been more conscientious about the design of the channel, it would have been
designed with a larger capacity, and the additional construction would not have been necessary.
Sunridge feels that this is the City’s mistake, and that Sunridge should not be obligated to build
additional facilities to handle runoff. The City maintains that there was no agreement in place
between it and Sunridge regarding relocation of the channel, or for credits toward impact fees. 5
The City also notes that the channel relocation made space for additional homes in the
development. 6

In addition, Sunridge states that it constructed other offsite facilities to control runoff from Slate
Canyon. The developer maintains that these facilities benefit other properties (and the City in
general), and so Sunridge should receive credit from the City’s impact fees. Sunridge claims this
additional work cost approximately $140,000.00. Sunridge objects to being charged impact fees
after it has already contributed significant facilities to the City. 7

Finally, Sunridge claims that that the City’s impact fees are unfair, and were incorrectly
calculated. Sunridge states that since most of the City’s infrastructure was paid for many years
ago, it is not fair to impose cost of new infrastructure on new development. Sunridge also
implies that the City impact fees are unfair because they are being used to fund facilities that
only benefit specific areas, rather than the City as a whole. Aside from these general statements,
Sunridge presents no other analysis of the City’s impact fees.

The City maintains that its impact fees are fair and correct, and that Sunridge is not entitled to
any additional credits. The City notes that it has already reduced the total impact fees, in
recognition of the facilities constructed by Sunridge. It also point out that the current applicant,
Bilogio, LLC is a different entity than Sunridge. The City argues that it cannot grant impact fee
credits to a different entity than the company that supposedly “earned” the credits.

                                                   Analysis
Sunridge—and Bilogio, LLC, the applicant for development approval—claim entitlement to
impact fee credits or other compensation for construction of public improvements that benefit
other properties (and the City in general), exceeding what was necessary for the Sunridge
development. Although the issue presented for this Opinion refers to impact fees, the proper
analysis appears to be the rough proportionality test adopted by the U.S. Supreme Court for
exactions. Sunridge’s claims for compensation are essentially claims for invalid exactions, and
rough proportionality analysis would apply even if the construction occurred prior to the Utah

5
  The City did not charge stormwater impact fees at the time of the channel relocation. The Utah Legislature
adopted the Impact Fees Act (currently §§ 11-36a-101 to -705 of the Utah Code) in 1995. However, several cities
had a form of impact fees (or property dedication) prior to that enactment. See e.g., Call v. West Jordan, 606 P.2d
217 (Utah 1979) (required dedication of land for stormwater runoff and/or parks).
6
  The City states that space for as many as 12 additional homes were made possible by relocating the channel, but
Sunridge claims that only one additional home was made possible.
7
  Evidently, the City participated in the construction of a berm, providing fuel and some material for the project.
The developer claims that there was an agreement with the City Engineer that Sunridge would receive credit for
storm water impact fees. However, there was no formal agreement between the City and Sunridge.

Advisory Opinion – Stewart/Provo City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 15, 2013 Page 4 of 9
Impact Fees Act or the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Dolan v. City of Tigard. 8 The City
stands by its impact fees, and maintains that the credits it has already granted are appropriate and
fair, and that the developer is not entitled to additional compensation.

    I.        A Local Government May Not Require A Property Developer to Dedicate
              More Than What is Needed Due to the Development’s Impact.

The law in Utah is firmly established that a local government may not require a property owner
or developer to construct (or contribute to) public facilities beyond what is needed due to the
development activity.

           [I]f the burden cast upon the subdivider is reasonably attributable to his activity,
           the requirement [of dedication or fees in lieu thereof] is permissible; if not, it is
           forbidden and amounts to a confiscation of private property in contravention of
           the constitutional prohibitions rather than reasonable regulation under the police
           power. Insofar as the establishment of a subdivision within a city increases the . .
           . needs of the city, then to that extent the cost of meeting that increase indeed may
           reasonably be required of the subdivider.

Call v. West Jordan, 614 P.2d 1257, 1259 (Utah 1980) (quoting Home Builders Association of
Greater Kansas City v. City of Kansas City, 555 S.W.2d 832, 835 (Mo. 1977))(First and last
alterations added, emphasis in original Missouri Supreme Court opinion). 9 Call is particularly
applicable to this matter, because it also concerned dedication of property and improvements for
flood or stormwater control. See Call, 614 P.2d at 1258; see also Call v. West Jordan, 606 P.2d
217, 218 (Utah 1980) (earlier decision on the same matter). 10

The policy explained in the Call decisions underpins the rules governing exactions and impact
fees. 11 Simply and broadly put, a required exaction or impact fee “must not require newly
developed properties to bear more than their equitable share of the capital costs in relation to
benefits conferred.” Banberry Development Corporation v. South Jordan City, 631 P..2d 899,




8
  512 U.S. 374 (1994). The Court’s analysis in Dolan adopted the Utah Supreme Court’s reasoning in Call v. West
Jordan, 606 P.2d 217, 220 (Utah 1979). See Dolan, 512 U.S. at 390-91.
9
  See also Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S. 374, 390-91 (1994)(citing Call v. West Jordan as representative of the
“rough proportionality” test adopted to analyze development exactions).
10
   The two Call decisions concerned a city’s requirement that a developer dedicate land (or pay fees in lieu of
dedication) for “flood control and/or parks and recreation facilities.” Call, 606 P.2d at 218.
11
   Impact fees are a type of exaction, Salt Lake County v. Board of Education of Granite School District, 808 P.2d
1056, 1058 (Utah 1991), which are directly governed by the Impact Fees Act.




Advisory Opinion – Stewart/Provo City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 15, 2013 Page 5 of 9
903 (Utah 1981). 12 This policy, however, applies to land dedication or fees required as a
condition of development approval. 13

As Sunridge points out, a developer has the responsibility of controlling increases to stormwater
runoff caused by development on the property. A local government may require construction of
pipelines, canals, or water retention basins to ensure that stormwater is controlled or conveyed
away from the development without causing flooding or other damage. These onsite facilities
usually connect to a public system that controls stormwater for the entire community. A local
government may only require a development to install those facilities reasonably needed to
address stormwater runoff attributable to the new development. Any requirement over and above
that which is necessary to address the development’s impact is an improper exaction. 14

Thus, if it is proven that Sundridge was required to construct public facilities over and above
what was necessitated by the proposed development in order to gain approval for a development,
then Sunridge may possibly claim entitlement to compensation for the additional work. On the
other hand, if the work was not a government-mandated condition of development approval, it is
not a development exaction, which means that Sundridge may not necessarily claim
compensation. 15 It must be shown that the construction was required by the City rather than
voluntarily undertaken by Sunridge. 16

     II.      It is Impossible for This Opinion to Determine if Sunridge is Entitled to
              Compensation.

           A. There Is Not Enough Information to Properly Evaluate Sunridge’s Claims

Because the parties have not provided enough information, it is impossible for this Opinion to
determine whether or not Sunrigde is entitled to compensation for the claimed dedications. In
particular, there is no attempt to measure the impact of the new development, which is crucial to
determining the validity of required exactions. Moreover, it has not been clearly established
which, if any, of the proposed construction projects were required as a conditions for


12
   The Banberry decision proposed seven factors to consider when determining whether an exaction or fee is
equitable, although the decision took care to point out that those seven were not the only factors that could be
considered. See Banberry, 631 P.2d at 903-04. Those factors were eventually adopted as part of the Impact Fees
Act, and form the heart of impact fee analysis. See UTAH CODE ANN. §§ 11-36a-301 to -306.
13
   B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2012 UT 26, ¶ 16, 282 P.3d 41, 45 (“BAM III”) (“A development
exaction is a government-mandated contribution of property imposed as a condition of approving a developer’s
project.”) (emphasis added).
14
   If required construction or land dedication is an improper exaction, the local government may modify the
requirement so that it is roughly equivalent to the impact of the development, or it may pay for the additional work
itself. In order to be valid, exactions must satisfy rough proportionality analysis. See B.A.M. Development, LLC v.
Salt Lake County, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 46, 128 P.3d 1161 (“BAM I”).
15
   A similar approach would apply to roads or other public facilities required in order to gain development approval.
A developer may only be required to construct or dedicate roads to the extent necessary due to the impact of the new
development.
16
   Voluntary construction and dedication of facilities, even if they benefitted the public, would not necessarily be
considered a taking.

Advisory Opinion – Stewart/Provo City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 15, 2013 Page 6 of 9
development approval. In fact, there appears to be some dispute on the motivation for the berm
construction and channel relocation.

From the facts provided, it can be established that Sunridge undertook improvements to the
property starting in 1981, when it first acquired the parcel. Those improvements included
stabilizing and rehabilitating the former gravel operations, including control of stormwater runoff
from both the property and Slate Canyon. It is not clear if that work was required by the City, or
was performed as part of an agreement. After some time, Sunridge again proposed development
on the property, and apparently submitted a subdivision plan. In 1997, the City and Sunridge
agreed to share the costs for extending Slate Canyon Drive to 300 South. At about the same
time, Sunridge relocated the drainage channel and constructed a berm to divert drainage from
Slate Canyon. Although Sunridge claims that City officials verbally committed to either
participate or provide reimbursement for construction of these stormwater control facilities, there
is no evidence of formal agreements between Sunridge and the City for those projects. 17

Even if the construction projects undertaken by Sunridge were considered to be required
exactions (and this Opinion makes no conclusion on whether or not they were), the validity of
the exactions depends upon how the cost of the construction projects compares to the measure of
the development’s impact. See B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2008 UT 74, ¶¶
10-12, 196 P.3d 601, 603-04 (“BAM II”). 18 Without evidence of the development’s impact, it is
impossible to determine if Sunridge may claim compensation or not.

           B. A New Property Owner Is Not Automatically Entitled to Compensation or Other
              Privileges for Work Done by the Prior Owner, but May Succeed to Rights and
              Responsibilities for Specific Developments.

Although this Opinion cannot conclude whether compensation is owed or not, it will address the
City’s question of whether a successor owner would be entitled to compensation for work done
by a previous owner. At first glance, the answer seems obvious: Unless there is some agreement
or provision that states otherwise, a new owner would not automatically be entitled to any
compensation due to a prior owner. However, it stands to reason that a successor owner who
assumes responsibility for a specific development would “step into the shoes” of the prior
developer insofar as the development was concerned, succeeding to any conditions and
privileges associated with the development’s approval. In that situation, the successor owner




17
   The City and Sunridge did enter a formal agreement governing construction of the Slate Canyon Road, and an
even allocation of construction costs. There has been no evidence presented indicating a breach of that agreement,
or a failure to perform. Since the agreement was signed and performed in 1997, an action based upon it may be
barred by the statute of limitations.
18
   The Utah Supreme Court explained that a valid exaction must be roughly proportionate in nature and extent to the
impact of the development. An exaction is roughly proportionate in nature if the exaction “solves” a “problem’
created by the new development. The exaction is roughly proportionate (or roughly equivalent) in extent if the cost
of the exaction is roughly equal to the cost necessary to address the impact attributable to the new development.

Advisory Opinion – Stewart/Provo City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 15, 2013 Page 7 of 9
would assume responsibility for completing improvements, and would also claim entitlement to
any credits available for improving public facilities. 19

In the factual situation presented for this Opinion, it would appear that Bilogio, as a new owner,
should not be able to claim compensation for work done several years ago by Sunridge, unless
some provision provides otherwise. Bilogio, as the current development applicant, would have
the same rights as any developer would, at least as far as current approvals and conditions are
concerned. This does not limit Sunridge from paying any award it might receive to Bilogio,
because the City would have no control over an award after it has been paid.

     III.     Sunridge May Need to Pursue a Takings Claim to Resolve This Dispute.

As this Opinion cannot determine if Sunridge is entitled to compensation, or even if the
construction that it performed were required by the City, it may be necessary for Sundridge to
pursue a claim under the Takings Clauses of the Federal and State Constitutions. 20 Exactions are
property takings. B.A.M. I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 34, 128 P.3d at 1169. Filing and prosecuting a lawsuit
based on a takings claim may be complicated and presents many other issues that are beyond the
scope of this Opinion. Nevertheless, a property owner has the right to pursue a takings or
inverse condemnation claim if compensation has been denied. See Wintergreen Group, LC v.
UDOT, 2007 UT 75, ¶ 10, 171 P.3d 418, 421. (Claim not ripe until administrative remedies have
been exhausted). Because a takings claim is based on constitutionally protected rights, it may
not be unduly preempted by statutes, although a claim must adhere to some procedural rules.

            A constitutional cause of action rooted in the organic law of our state is
            presumptively superior to and must displace any statutory iteration that either
            conflicts with it or gives it less than full effect. Owing to its different lineage, a
            constitutional cause of action can never be preempted by statute, regardless of
            how fully the statute honors the contours of the constitutional claim.

Id., 2007 UT 75, ¶ 14, 171 P.3d at 422 (holding that claimant could pursue an independent claim
for compensation). Thus, Sunridge could pursue its claims in an independent lawsuit, although it
must comply with statutory and procedural rules. As has been stated, this Opinion offers no
insight on the validity of a possible Sunridge claim, because the evidence needed for properly
analysis is lacking.

                                                   Conclusion
It is not possible for this Opinion to determine if the property developer is entitled to
compensation, because not enough information has been provided. There is no question that a
local government may not require new development to construct or dedicate public facilities over

19
   It should also be recognized that it is a common practice for a developer to create a new legal entity for a specific
project, even though the new entity has the same owners or directors. It is not clear whether this is the case in this
situation, although there appears to be a close relationship between the owners of Sunridge and Bilogio.
20
   See U.S. CONST. Amend. V, and UTAH CONST., art I, § 22 (“Private property shall not be taken or damaged for
public use without just compensation.”)

Advisory Opinion – Stewart/Provo City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 15, 2013 Page 8 of 9
and above what is necessary to address the impact caused by the development. The impact
therefore measures the validity of the required dedication.

A mandatory dedication or construction of public facilities is an exaction, and excessive
exactions may require compensation to the developer. However, compensation would only be
owed if the dedication is required by the public entity. Voluntary contributions are not exactions
and would not necessarily require compensation.

Absent an agreement or some other provision, a new property owner may not claim
compensation for work performed by a previous owner. However, a new owner may assume the
rights and responsibilities for an approved development, and may therefore be entitled to the
same privileges extended to the prior developer.

A person may pursue a lawsuit claiming compensation for a property taking, as provided by
constitutional protections. While there are some procedural rules which must be followed, a
takings claim may be pursued independently. Furthermore, because a takings claim is based on
protection of a constitutionally-guaranteed right, a suit may not be unduly restricted by statute or
procedural rules.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Stewart/Provo City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 15, 2013 Page 9 of 9
NOTE:

This is an Advisory Opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Utah Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of the relevant law,
he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an interest in these
issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of legal counsel and not rely on
this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or advance his interest.

An Advisory Opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not
binding on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the
subject of an Advisory Opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of
action is litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the
Advisory Opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may be
awarded reasonable attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that
cause of action from the date of the delivery of the Advisory Opinion to the date of the
court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Janene Weiss, City Recorder
              Provo City
              351 West Center Street
              Provo, UT 84601

On this ___________ day of March, 2013, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
