                     Advisory Opinion #167
                          Parties: Salt Lake City, Price Bangerter/Distribution
                                             Issued: April 22, 2016

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                                 Impact Fees

A city may impose impact fees on new development to help fund new
infrastructure attributable to new growth. An impact fee is presumed to be valid
unless a challenger can show that an imposed fee is unreasonable and
inequitable in that it does not accurately address the specific impacts of the
challenger’s development on the city’s infrastructure.

Although Price has raised several valid concerns that could affect its impact fees,
Price has failed to produce evidence sufficient to meet its burden to prove that the
roadway impact fees imposed by Salt Lake City on Price’s Distribution and
Ninigret development projects are unreasonable or inequitable. Price presents
several concerns related to the data, studies, and methodologies used by the City
to calculate the impact fees, but it fails to present sufficient evidence to show that
the assessed impact fees inaccurately offset the specific development impacts of
the Ninigret or Distribution Properties. Consequently, Price has not established an
entitlement to any reduction in fees.

                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI       BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director      Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:                 Salt Lake City Corporation

        Local Government Entity:                       Salt Lake City Corporation

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:               Price Bangerter/Distribution

        Type of Property:                              Industrial/Office

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 April 22, 2016

        Opinion Authored By:                           Jordan S. Cullimore
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                        ISSUE
        Is Price Bangerter/Distribution entitled to a refund or reduction of roadway impact fees imposed
        by Salt Lake City on Price’s Ninigret and Distribution Properties?

                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        A city may impose impact fees on new development to help fund new infrastructure attributable
        to new growth. An impact fee is presumed to be valid unless a challenger can show that an
        imposed fee is unreasonable and inequitable in that it does not accurately address the specific
        impacts of the challenger’s development on the city’s infrastructure.

        Although Price has raised several valid concerns that could affect its impact fees, Price has failed
        to produce evidence sufficient to meet its burden to prove that the roadway impact fees imposed
        by Salt Lake City on Price’s Distribution and Ninigret development projects are unreasonable or
        inequitable. Price presents several concerns related to the data, studies, and methodologies used
        by the City to calculate the impact fees, but it fails to present sufficient evidence to show that the
        assessed impact fees inaccurately offset the specific development impacts of the Ninigret or
        Distribution Properties. Consequently, Price has not established an entitlement to any reduction
        in fees.
                                            REVIEW
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Katherine Lewis, Senior City Attorney for
Salt Lake City, on September 21, 2015. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to
David J. Castleton, Attorney for Price Bangerter Crossing, LLC, and Price Distribution Drive,
LLC (collectively “Price”), 36 South State Street, STE 1400, Salt Lake City, Utah.

                                           EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Katherine Lewis,
        Senior City Attorney for Salt Lake City, with attachments, on September 21, 2015.
     2. Letter submitted by Katherine Lewis, Senior City Attorney for Salt Lake City, received
        October 27, 2015.
     3. Response submitted by David Castleton on behalf of Price Bangerter Crossing, LLC, and
        Price Distribution Drive, LLC, received November 12, 2015.
     4. Reply submitted by Ms. Lewis, received November 27, 2015.
     5. Salt Lake City Impact Fees Facility Plan and Impact Fee Study, Adopted 2012, prepared
        by Galena Consulting.

                                          BACKGROUND
On May 15, 2012 Salt Lake City Corporation (the “City”) adopted an Impact Fee Facilities Plan
and Impact Fee Study (IFFP). The document’s findings were used to establish a per-square-foot
Roadway Impact Fee on new construction of $2.33 for office space and $2.26 for industrial
space. These fees were adopted in the Salt Lake City Consolidated Fee Schedule for Impact Fees.

Subsequent to the establishment of the fees, Price Bangerter Crossing, LLC, and Price
Distribution Drive, LLC (collectively “Price”) submitted building permit applications to
construct office/industrial buildings at 3555 West Ninigret Drive (“Ninigret Property”), and 1515
South Distribution Drive (“Distribution Property”), respectively. The Ninigret Property
comprised 40,000 square feet of office space and 265,406 square feet of industrial space, and the
Distribution Property consisted of 30,000 square feet of office space and 81,484 square feet of
industrial space. The City used a square footage formula to calculate roadway impact fees of

Advisory Opinion – Salt Lake City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 22, 2016 Page 2 of 11
$693,017.56 for the Ninigret Property and $254,053.84 for the Distribution Property. Price paid
the Ninigret Property impact fee on September 10, 2014 and the Distribution Property fee on
July 17, 2015. Between the two properties, Price paid the City a total of $947,071.40 in Roadway
Impact Fees.

On September 9, 2015, Price, pursuant to Salt Lake City Code § 18.98.090 and Utah Code § 11-
36a-703, filed an appeal challenging the validity of the roadway impact fees imposed on the
Ninigret and Distribution Properties. Price, in its appeal, asserts, among other arguments that will
be considered below, that the total assessed fees “grossly overestimate the impact to [Salt Lake
City], [are] in violation of Utah Code Section 11-36a-202, and [amount] to a confiscation of
private property in contravention of constitutional prohibitions.”

On October 20, 2015 the Salt Lake City Council passed an ordinance imposing a moratorium on
the collection of certain impact fees, including the roadway impact fee, for one year because,
according to the City, the City Council “is concerned with whether the City can pay for the
projects listed on the [Impact Fee Facilities Plan] which are not fully funded through impact
fees.”

The City seeks an advisory opinion addressing the merits of Price’s challenge to the imposed
roadway impact fees.
                                            ANALYSIS
An impact fee is a “payment of money imposed upon new development…to mitigate the impact
of the new development on public infrastructure.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(8)(a). The Utah
Impact Fees Act (the “Act”), found in Chapter 11-36a of the Utah Code, authorizes local
governments to impose certain impact fees on new development to help fund new infrastructure
attributable to new growth. See UTAH CODE § 11-36a-304(d). When a city imposes an impact fee
on a development, the Act allows the developer to challenge the reasonableness of the fee. In this
matter, Price has challenged the reasonableness of the roadway impact fees imposed by the City
on the Ninigret and Distribution properties.

It is important to note at the outset that, no matter the outcome of this challenge, a full refund of
the collected roadway impact fees is unlikely. Even if a court were to find an imposed impact fee
to be invalid, the Act states that the remedy for an impact fee challenge is a refund of the
difference between what the developer paid and the amount the fee should have been if it had
been calculated correctly. UTAH CODE § 11-36a-701(3)(c). Since the new development has an
impact on city infrastructure, some fee will be appropriate. The question is how much. For
reasons articulated below, we conclude that Price is not entitled to a refund of any of the
collected roadway impact fees since it has not met its burden to show that the fees are
unreasonable or inequitable as applied to the Ninigret or Distribution Properties.

I.         The Burden of Proof in an Impact Fee Challenge

An imposed impact fee is presumed to be valid unless a challenger can show that the fee is
unreasonable. Home Builders Ass’n. v. American Fork, 1997 UT 7, ¶ 4, 973 P.2d 425. The
“‘equitable share’ standard is the…legal standard that municipalities are obligated to meet.” Id. at

Advisory Opinion – Salt Lake City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 22, 2016 Page 3 of 11
¶ 20. A developer challenging the reasonableness of a fee has the burden of showing that the fee
“require[s] newly developed properties to bear more than their equitable share of the capital costs
in relation to benefits conferred.” Banberry v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899, 903 (Utah 1981).
Simply stated, an impact fee is unreasonable if doesn’t equitably and correctly offset the cost of a
development’s impact on city infrastructure. Id. at 904.

To show entitlement to relief, the challenger must articulate “an alternative basis for calculating
the [fee],” Home Builders Ass’n of Utah v. North Logan, 1999 UT 63, ¶ 14, 983 P.2d 561, or
demonstrate that “proper application of Banberry would have resulted in a different fee.” Id. at ¶
13. In other words, the challenger must present sufficient evidence to overcome the presumption
that the imposed fee is reasonable by showing that the fee does not accurately address the subject
development’s impacts, and that an alternative fee is more appropriate.

II.        Effect of Salt Lake City’s Impact Fee Moratorium

In the present matter, Price argues that roadway impact fees imposed on the Ninigret and
Distribution properties are unreasonable in several respects.

Price asserts, foremost, that the City’s recent enactment of a one-year moratorium on the
collection of impact fees is clear evidence that “the City’s IFFP was an unreasonable plan when
it was adopted,” and that it led to the imposition of an inequitable roadway impact fee on Price.
Price supports this argument by citing Councilman Stan Penfold’s statements in an October 13,
2015 work session that the City’s 2012 IFFP established an unrealistic level of service in light of
available funding sources other than impact fees.

Moreover, Price asserts that the moratorium renders the fees imposed on the Ninigret and
Distribution Properties unreasonable because it places on Price a disproportionate burden to pay
for growth that will occur in the City during the period in which impact fees are not being
assessed on new development.

These arguments fail to show that the roadway impact fees imposed on Price are unreasonable or
inequitable. First, it is insufficient to state that the impact fee is unreasonable simply because the
City has suspended collection of the fee while it reassesses its funding sources and desired level
of service. Price attempts to rely on the existence of the moratorium as circumstantial evidence
that the fee was incorrectly calculated, but such reliance does not satisfy Price’s burden of
overcoming the presumed reasonableness of the assessed roadway impact fee as applied to
Price’s projects. In simply presenting the moratorium as evidence of unreasonableness, Price
does not articulate how any portion of the Impact Fee Act has been misapplied, nor does it
articulate any alternative method of calculation that would have produced a different fee than the
one assessed on the Ninigret or Distribution Properties. Consequently, Price has not met its
burden.

Price next claims that suspending the collection of impact fees will cause Price to pay for growth
that occurs during the moratorium. The impact fees assessed to Price are valid if they offset the
specific impacts created by Price’s developments on city infrastructure, and will be invalid if
Price is required to pay for more than its share. Whether or not the City chooses to charge impact
fees to other developers does not factor into the question of whether or not Price is paying for its

Advisory Opinion – Salt Lake City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 22, 2016 Page 4 of 11
own share of the impacts. The City is free to discount or waive impact fees, as long as the
balance comes from City funds. Price, in this assertion, presents no specific evidence, other than
the existence of the moratorium, that the assessed fees exceed the amount sufficient to mitigate
the impact of Price’s developments on city infrastructure. See Banberry, 631 P.2d at 903.

Since Price, in its arguments regarding the moratorium, presents no evidence that the assessed
impact fees compensated the City for more than the actual impact of the Ninigret and
Distribution Properties, it must be concluded that the impact of development that occurs during
the moratorium will be disproportionately borne by the City as a whole, not by Price.
Consequently we conclude that the City’s recently enacted one-year moratorium does not
constitute evidence sufficient to prove that the impact fees Price paid were unreasonable or
inequitable.

III.       Impact Fees must satisfy “Rough Proportionality” Exaction Analysis

Municipalities must comply with procedures set forth in the Act when establishing impact fees
on development. Additionally, impact fees are a form of development exaction, and each fee
imposed on a particular development must comply with exaction law. Salt Lake County v. Bd. of
Educ., 808 P.2d 1056, 1058 (Utah 1991). UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508 authorizes local governments
to impose exactions on new development, within established limits:

       (1) A municipality may impose…exactions on development…if:
           (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
               exaction; and
           (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
               impact of the proposed development.

The language of this statute was borrowed directly from the analytical framework established to
assess exactions by the U.S. Supreme Court in Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S.
825, 107 S.Ct. 3141 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374, 114 S.Ct. 2309 (1994).
The analysis derived from these cases is known as the Nollan/Dolan “rough proportionality” test.
There are two parts to the test: there must be an essential link between a legitimate government
interest and the exaction, and there must be “rough proportionality” between the exaction and the
development’s impact. The Utah Supreme Court further articulated the “rough proportionality”
part of the test in B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2008 UT 74, 196 P.3d 601
(“B.A.M. II”). The B.A.M. II Court explained that rough proportionality “has two aspects: first,
the exaction and impact must be related in nature; second, they must be related in extent.”
B.A.M. II, 2008 UT 74, ¶ 9, 196 P.3d at 603. The “nature” aspect focuses on the relationship
between the purported impact and proposed exaction. The court stated that the analysis should
be expressed “in terms of a solution and a problem . . . . [T]he impact is the problem, or the
burden which the community will bear because of the development. The exaction should address
the problem. If it does, then the nature component has been satisfied.” Id., 2008 UT 74, ¶ 10,
196 P.3d at 603-04. The “extent” aspect of the rough proportionality analysis measures the
impact against the proposed exaction in terms of cost:

           The most appropriate measure is cost—specifically, the cost of the exaction and
           the impact to the developer and the municipality, respectively. The impact of the
Advisory Opinion – Salt Lake City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 22, 2016 Page 5 of 11
           development can be measured as the cost to the municipality of assuaging the
           impact. Likewise, the exaction can be measured as the value of the land to be
           dedicated by the developer at the time of the exaction.

Id., 2008 UT 74, ¶ 11, 196 P.3d at 604.

Price argues that the roadway impact fees imposed on the Ninigret and Distribution Properties
violate exaction law. Accordingly, we will consider the specific impact fees imposed upon Price’s
properties to determine whether the fees comply with the “rough proportionality” test.

           A.          Essential Link Between a Legitimate Government Interest and the Exaction

In the present case, the City required Price to pay a roadway impact fee. Requiring a developer to
pay an impact fee for construction of roadway facilities necessitated by new growth satisfies the
first part of the exaction analysis. Building and maintaining adequate roadways and control of
safe traffic flow is a legitimate government interest. UTAH CODE § 10-8-8; see also Carrier v.
Lindquist, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18, 37 P.3d 1112, 1117. Constructing additional roadway facilities
and adding traffic controls are reasonable means to promote that interest. Id. Requiring a
developer to pay for these facilities promotes the City’s legitimate objectives. Consequently, the
first prong of the “rough proportionality test” is satisfied.

           B.          Rough Proportionality between the Fee and the Development Impacts

The second part of the “rough proportionality” test requires that the cost of the exactions, which
in this case are the roadway impact fees of $693,017.56 for the Ninigret Property and
$254,053.84 for the Distribution Property, must be roughly proportionate, or in other words,
equivalent, in nature and extent, to the cost that the City will incur to address (or “assuage”)
impacts attributable to the respective developments on the City’s roadway facilities.

The City has used a cost-per-square-foot formula established by its 2012 IFFP to calculate the
fees assessed to the Ninigret and Distribution Properties. Establishing a cost-per-square-foot
formula for all industrial and office development is an efficient way of calculating and imposing
impact fees on development, but this method assumes that each square foot of industrial and/or
office development is alike. While this may generally produce an acceptable result, the method
may not take into account unique characteristics, such as location and intensity of a particular
development.

Accordingly, a fee calculated with a generally applicable formula is, as indicated previously,
presumed valid unless a developer subject to an impact fee can show that the fee, as applied to
his particular development, does not accurately address the specific impacts of the development,
and therefore should be adjusted. The developer must present evidence in the form of credible
studies and accurate data demonstrating that the formula fee imposed on a development does not
accurately address the unique impacts of the particular development. See UTAH CODE § 11-36a-
402(c)-(d).

The City, in preparing its Capital Facilities Plan and Impact Fee Study, has attempted to calculate
a roadway impact fee based upon data that addresses the impact of commercial development
Advisory Opinion – Salt Lake City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 22, 2016 Page 6 of 11
such as the Ninigret and Distribution Properties, on the City’s roadway system. Price asserts that
the studies and data used by the City are flawed in several respects and that these flaws produced
unreasonable and inequitable fees. Accordingly, we will address the flaws asserted by Price.

           C.          Salt Lake City’s Impact Fee Facilities Plan and Impact Fee Study

                       1.         Growth Projections

Price asserts that the City’s IFFP relies on flawed growth projections because it improperly
assumes 5% equal growth across residential and non-residential sectors. Price asserts that this
assumption is improper and it provides a study prepared by Newmark Grubb ACRES to support
its position. In advancing its argument, however, Price does not present evidence that the City’s
projections are based on flawed data, or that the resulting calculations do not accurately address
the specific impacts of the Ninigret or Distribution Properties on the City’s roadway facilities.

The City used data from the “Wasatch Front Regional Council Transportation Plan, 2011-2040”
and the “CB Richard Ellis Real Estate 2010 Year End Report” to determine its growth
projections. The City asserts that these studies are “data-based and well-supported analyses of
the future needs of the City….” City’s Letter dated October 27, 2015. Price does not dispute this
assertion, it simply presents another view. Since the law does not “require a rigid, formalistic
approach to the decision-making process employed to calculate impact fees,” Home Builders
Ass’n v. City of North Logan, 1999 UT 63 ¶ 12, 983 P.2d 561, the City’s chosen growth
projections appear appropriate.

Price presents no specific, verifiable evidence that the City’s projections do not produce
calculations that properly address the impacts of Price’s properties. Consequently, asserting that
the City’s growth projections are improper, without explaining how more correct data would
have produced a calculation that more accurately addressed the impacts of the Ninigret or
Distribution Properties, does not satisfy Price’s burden to show that a different fee should have
been assessed.

                       2.         Service Area

Next, Price asserts that the City’s IFFP incorrectly assumes that west side roadways benefit only
the west side of the City and provide no benefit to the east side of the City. The City contends
that the study establishes a city-wide service area1 for roadway facilities even though the City,
prior to the imposition of the moratorium, was only collecting impact fees from west side
development.

Since Price does not explain the specific implications of the purported error, we presume that
Price believes that if the City established a different service area and assessed fees more broadly,
the fees applied to Price’s properties would be less. However, Price does not explain how this
implication would lead to a different fee, as applied to either the Ninigret or Distribution
properties. The question is whether the fees address the specific impacts of the subject

1
  A “service area” is defined in the Act as “a geographic area…in which a public facility, or a defined set of public
facilities, provides service within the area.”
Advisory Opinion – Salt Lake City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 22, 2016 Page 7 of 11
developments. Since the law does not prescribe how a City should establish a service area, we
conclude that the City’s chosen method of establishing a city wide service area for its
calculations is appropriate.

                       3.         Transportation Facilities

Third, Price asserts that the City’s IFFP does not categorize transportation facilities appropriately
and that bike lanes will not benefit west side development. Since the law does not define how
transportation facilities should be categorized in a facilities plan, we conclude that the
methodology used was appropriate. The plan identified proposed facilities, determined what
proportion of each of the facilities is attributable to new growth, and calculated a fee accordingly.

                       4.         Trip Generation Rates

Price asserts that the trip generation rates used by the City’s IFFP are flawed because, while the
plan uses an office trip generation rate of 1.3 trips per 1000 square feet2, “many offices are
currently utilizing up to 8 employees per 1000 square feet.” This is the type of concern that could
lead to a conclusion that an impact fee, as applied to a specific development, is improper. If a
challenger can show that a specific development will produce fewer vehicle trips than that
assumed by the imposed impact fee, a court would likely conclude that the impact fee should be
adjusted to only offset the actual impact of the development. However, Price provides no data to
show that the number used by the City does not accurately address the impacts of either the
Ninigret or Distribution Properties. Price simply states that “many” offices currently utilize up to
8 employees per 1000 square feet. Price presents no evidence that either the Ninigret or
Distribution properties will produce less than 1.3 trips per 1000 square feet of office space and
therefore warrant reductions in the applied impact fees.

                       5.         Replacement Values

Price asserts that the City’s fee calculation improperly uses present replacement value of existing
infrastructure to calculate recoupment costs for the fee, and that present replacement value does
not properly account for “the time-price differential inherent in fair comparisons of amounts paid
at different times.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-304(2)(h).

If this were true, then Price would be correct to express concern. However, the City explains that
the calculation in the impact fee analysis that uses present replacement value was intended to
serve only as indirect evidence that the proposed impact fee, which uses estimated cost of
proposed facilities in its calculation, is not excessive. In other words, the calculation that uses
present replacement value of existing facilities does not influence the calculation of the actual
impact fee formula used to calculate a specific fee. The impact fee calculation uses estimated
cost of new facilities, which is appropriate. It does not appear that the City is even attempting to




2
 Both parties agree that this number comes from the ITE (Institute of Transportation Engineers) Trip Generation
Manual.
Advisory Opinion – Salt Lake City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 22, 2016 Page 8 of 11
recoup cost of excess capacity in existing facilities through the impact fee.3 Consequently, we
conclude that the valuation method used to calculate the roadway impact fee is appropriate.

                       6.         Necessity of Proposed Facilities to Maintain a Proposed Level of Service

Price further argues that the City’s IFFP does not establish that the roadway impact fees assessed
to the industrial area of the City are necessary to maintain a proposed level of service and that the
numbers used to calculate the impact fees are erroneous. The plan indicates that the City’s
existing transportation facilities provide a transportation level of service “C”. The plan also
identifies proposed facilities planned to continue the current level of service, and indicates what
percentage of those facilities is necessitated by new growth.

While it would be beneficial, as Price points out, for the plan to reference a traffic study or other
evidence confirming the existing level of service and justifying the need for the proposed
facilities, the Act simply requires that the facilities plan “identify” the existing level of service
and “establish” a proposed level of service. UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302(1)(a). The City’s IFFP
satisfies these requirements. However, if Price could produce data or studies showing the
proposed facilities would increase the existing level of service using impact fees, then the City
would need to recalculate its fees to only account for the portion of the facilities necessary to
maintain the current level of service. Price has not provided any data or studies to this effect.

                       7.         Application of UTAH CODE § 11-36a-304(2)

Finally, Price asserts that the City’s IFFP does not adequately consider the analysis required by
UTAH CODE § 11-36a-304(2), “particularly with respect to the impact fees assessed to the
industrial area.” The analysis referred to involves the Banberry factors. These “Banberry factors”
include:

     (a) the cost of each existing public facility that has excess capacity to serve the anticipated
         development resulting from the new development activity;
     (b) the cost of system improvements for each public facility;
     (c) other than impact fees, the manner of financing for each public facility, such as user
         charges, special assessments, bonded indebtedness, general taxes, or federal grants;
     (d) the relative extent to which development activity will contribute to financing the excess
         capacity of and system improvements for each existing public facility, by such means as
         user charges, special assessments, or payment from the proceeds of general taxes;
     (e) the relative extent to which development activity will contribute to the cost of existing
         public facilities and system improvements in the future;
     (f) the extent to which the development activity is entitled to a credit against impact fees
         because the development activity will dedicate system improvements or public facilities
         that will offset the demand for system improvements, inside or outside the proposed
         development;
     (g) extraordinary costs, if any, in servicing the newly developed properties; and
     (h) the time-price differential inherent in fair comparisons of amounts paid at different times.

3
 The City only included estimated cost of proposed facilities in its impact fee calculation, so the fee is apparently
only intended to offset that cost.
Advisory Opinion – Salt Lake City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 22, 2016 Page 9 of 11
UTAH CODE § 11-36a-304(2)(a)-(h). See also Banberry, 631 P.2d at 904.

Beyond this plain assertion, Price gives no explanation regarding how “proper application of
Banberry would have resulted in a different fee.” Home Builders Ass’n of Utah v. North Logan,
1999 UT 63, ¶ 13, 983 P.2d 561. Consequently, Price has not met its burden to show that the
impact fees assessed to the Ninigret and Distribution Properties do not accurately address the
specific impacts of the developments on the City’s roadway facilities.

IV.        Impact Fee Spending

Price expresses several concerns related to how the City has handled unspent impact fees. These
concerns are appropriate. The Act requires the City to follow specific procedures when
accounting for and expending impact fees. See UTAH CODE § 11-36a-601–602. The Act requires
the City to annually produce a report that “identifies impact fee funds by the year in which they
were received, the project from which the funds were collected, the impact fee projects for which
the funds were budgeted, and the projected schedule for expenditure.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-
601(5). Price should be permitted to review these reports in accordance with the Utah
Government Records Access and Management Act, see UTAH CODE Section 63G, Chapter2, to
help it assess whether, and to what extent, it may be entitled to a refund at a future date. The City
indicates that the required reports have been provided to Price.

The accounting procedures are necessary because the City must “expend or encumber the
[impact fees paid by Price] for a permissible use within six years of their receipt.” UTAH CODE §
11-36a-602(2)(a). If the City does not expend or encumber the Ninigret Property fee by
September 10, 2020, or the Distribution Property fee by July 17, 2021, then the City will be
obligated to return any of the unspent funds to Price. The City must comply with reporting
requirements to ensure it does not retain the fees longer than permitted. The only instance in
which the City may hold the fees for longer than six years is if it can identify, in writing, “an
extraordinary and compelling reason why the fees should be held longer than six years.” UTAH
CODE § 11-36a-602(2)(b). Even then, the City must set “an absolute date by which the fees will
be expended.” Id. Otherwise, the City must return any unspent funds to Price.

V.         Industrial Area Impact Fee Assessments

Finally, Price asserts that only industrial area development on the west side of the City is being
charged roadway impact fees even though the IFFP identifies projects both within the industrial
area and outside of it. This argument is related to the service area issue addressed above.
Presumably, Price is concerned that the fees collected from the Ninigret and Distribution
Properties will be used to construct projects that will not measurably benefit the properties. This
concern is appropriate.

The Court in Banberry distinguished between centralized improvements, such as facilities that
support water and sewer service, from “dispersed resources” that “may be measurably different
in different parts of the municipality” and may disproportionately serve different areas of the
City. Banberry, 631 P.2d at 905. Regarding fees assessed to construct dispersed resources, the
court stated that, while the “benefits derived from the [fee] need not accrue solely to the
[development assessed],” the benefits derived from the fee “must be of ‘demonstrable benefit’ to

Advisory Opinion – Salt Lake City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 22, 2016 Page 10 of 11
the [development].” Id. Roadway facilities typically possess more characteristics of a dispersed
resource than a centralized one, since vehicle congestion tends to occur in isolated areas within
the City, as opposed to city-wide all at once. This is especially true with respect to local roads, as
opposed to collector or arterial streets that function as regional connectors.

As stated previously, the City has designated the entire jurisdiction as one service area, which is
permitted under the law. However, it is logical to conclude that the larger and more diverse the
service area, the more likely it will be that some dispersed resources within the service area will
better serve some than others. The City should be careful to ensure that fees assessed on a
development to construct dispersed resources such as some roadway facilities are used to
construct improvements that “demonstrably benefit” the development assessed.

In this case, Price has not presented any evidence that the City has already expended fees
collected from Price on the Ninigret or Distribution Properties in a way that does not
“demonstrably benefit” the properties. It is possible that the funds simply have not been spent
yet. Moving forward, it will be important for the City to ensure the funds spent on dispersed
resources are expended in accordance with this “demonstrable benefit” standard articulated in
Banberry.

                                          CONCLUSION
Price has failed to produce evidence sufficient to meet its burden to prove that the roadway
impact fees imposed by the City on Price’s Ninigret or Distribution Properties are unreasonable
or inequitable. Price presents several concerns related to the data, studies, and methodologies
used by the City to calculate the impact fees, but it fails to present relevant evidence showing
that the assessed impact fees inaccurately offset the specific development impacts of the Ninigret
or Distribution Properties on the City’s roadway facilities. Consequently, Price is not entitled to
any reduction in the assessed fees.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Salt Lake City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 22, 2016 Page 11 of 11
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:



                      Cindi Mansell, City Recorder
                      Salt Lake City
                      451 So. State Street, RM 415
                      Salt Lake City, UT 84114-5515


On this ___________ Day of _______, 2016, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
