                     Advisory Opinion #137
                   Parties: Ryan Bybee (Cadence Homes and American Fork City
                                           Issued: January 31, 2014

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                                N: Review of Warranty Work for Completion
                                Other Topics (vii): Development Bonds

Local governments may require completion and warranty bonds, to ensure that
public infrastructure is properly constructed. Local agencies should adopt design
and construction standards to govern construction and warranty work, but the
standards must be in place before a development application is submitted. New
standards may not be imposed on existing applications, or development permits
which have already been issued.




                                                DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each
Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was
prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes
or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide
general guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be
considered legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current
laws.




                     The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                                  (801) 530-6391
                     Utah Department of Commerce                                                 1-877-882-4662
                     PO Box 146702                                                           Fax: (801) 530-6338
                     160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                     www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                     Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                         propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 SPENCER J. COX           FRANCINE A. GIANI       BRENT N. BATEMAN
Lieutenant Governor       Executive Director      Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




                                               ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                   Ryan Bybee

      Local Government Entity:                         American Fork City

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:             Cadence Homes

      Type of Property:                                Residential

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                   January 31, 2014

      Opinion Authored By:                             Elliot R. Lawrence
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       Issues
      May a local government enact construction and repair standards applicable to existing
      subdivision applications?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
      Local governments may require construction assurance, to ensure that required public
      improvements are completed, and improvement warranties, to guarantee the quality of public
      improvements. Local governments may impose standards governing construction and warranty
      work, as long as the standards were in place when the development application was submitted.
      New standards may not be imposed on existing applications or on approved development
      permits.

                                                     Review
      A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
      decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
      An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
      administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
      application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
      hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Ryan Bybee, owner of Cadence Homes,
on November 21, 2013. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Pamela Hunsaker,
American Fork City Treasurer, at 51 East Main Street, American Fork, Utah. According to the
return receipt, the City received the Request on November 25, 2013.

                                                    Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Ryan Bybee, owner
                 of Cadence Homes, received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman on
                 November 21, 2013.
     2.          Response submitted on behalf of American Fork City, by Kasey L. Wright, attorney
                 for the City, received on January 2, 2014.
     3.          Reply submitted by Mr. Bybee, received on January 9, 2014.
     4.          Ordinance 2013-08-27, received from American Fork City, January 13, 2014.

                                                    Background
Ryan Bybee owns Cadence Homes, which developed a residential subdivision in American Fork.
The City requires developers to post an improvement warranty bond, entitled a “durability
retainer” as a one-year guarantee of “the durability of constructed improvements . . ..” AMERICAN
FORK CITY CODE, § 17.9.402. If the improvements are unsatisfactory, the City may require the
developer to make repairs; if the developer does not make the repairs, the City may use the
retainer for the repairs. After one year, the retainer is released. Cadence posted a bond worth
approximately $168,000 as a durability retainer for its subdivision.

In the summer of 2013, Cadence was nearing the end of the one-year warranty period on its
subdivision. The City inspected the public improvements, and identified settling around four
storm drains located in public streets. Cadence agreed to repair the settling, which would require
removing the asphalt around the drains, adding fill material, and replacing the pavement.
Cadence states that in the past, the City had accepted a “T-patch” in similar situations. 1
However, in 2013, the City required that Cadence mill down and repave all of the streets in the
subdivision, not just the areas immediately around the storm drains. 2

1
  A “T-patch” is a method of replacing asphalt in an existing street. The old asphalt is removed in the area that needs
to be repaired, extending a short distance from the repair area, which allows some undisturbed base or fill as a ledge
around the repair work (the arms of the “T”). After the base is repaired and levelled, new asphalt would be laid over
the entire area, including the ledge.
2
  Cadence does not object to repairing the settled areas near the drains using T-patches.

Advisory Opinion – American Fork City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 31, 2014 Page 2 of 6
After Cadence objected to repaving or resealing the entire subdivision, the City enacted
Ordinance 2013-08-27, which adopted a new section of the City Code, “Pavement
Preservation.” 3 The Ordinance was adopted on August 27, 2013, after Cadence’s one-year
warranty period had expired. The new language governs excavations in the City’s streets, setting
out specific guidelines for replacement of pavement when necessary due to repairs or
construction. The 2013 Ordinance requires that one year after being installed, the asphalt in a
patch area is to be milled down and replaced. Along with that milling, all cracks or joints in the
entire block on either side of the patch area are to be sealed, with a bituminous seal coated over
the entire length of the block. Id., § 12.08.040(E)(1).

The new language also requires crack sealing and a new seal coat on all new subdivision streets.
This work is to be completed near the end of the durability retainer period, and must be
completed before the retainer will be released. Id., §12.08.040(J). 4 Prior to the adoption of this
language, the City had no ordinance or written policy expressing standards on pavement repair or
release of warranty bonds. According to Cadence, however, the City had accepted “simple” T-
patches for several years. 5

Cadence maintains that the City’s new Ordinance should only apply to projects commenced after
August of 2013, and not to projects which had already been approved. In particular, Cadence
notes that its subdivision project was constructed and the warranty period completed when the
new ordinance was adopted. Cadence agrees that the City could adopt new standards for
pavement repairs and warranty releases, but argues that the new standards should not have been
applied to existing projects.

The City argues that no ordinance or written policy on pavement repairs was in place until
August of 2013, and Cadence cannot rely on past practices. The City acknowledges that T-
patches have been accepted in the past, but it states that the practice was not universal, nor was it
approved as an official policy. The City argues that it may require any reasonable standards that
in its discretion is necessary to ensure that its roads are safe and durable. Since there was no
ordinance or policy, no developer could have gained a vested right in any past practices.

                                                    Analysis
     I. Local Governments May Require Completion Assurance and Warranty
        Bonds to Guarantee Construction of Public Improvements.

A local government may require completion assurance as a means of guaranteeing that public
improvements will be built. 6 Local governments may also require that developers warrant work

3
  The new section is numbered 12.08.040.
4
  Cracks larger than 3/8’’ must be replaced rather than sealed. AMERICAN FORK CITY CODE, § 12.08.040(J)(2)(a).
5
  The City’s new ordinance does not reject T-patches, but adds the additional requirements of replacing the asphalt in
a patch after one year, and resealing entire blocks of streets. It appears that Cadence’s objections stem from these
additional requirements.
6
  UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-103(18): “’Improvement completion assurance’” means a surety bond, letter of credit,
cash, or other security required by a municipality to guaranty the proper completion of landscaping or infrastructure
that the land use authority has required . . ..” See also id., § 17-27a-103(21) (applicable to counties).

Advisory Opinion – American Fork City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 31, 2014 Page 3 of 6
on public improvements for one year after completion. 7 Requiring a developer to post a bond for
the estimated cost of the improvements, and to also maintain funds for a warranty period are
reasonable means to accomplish the legitimate government interest of ensuring that public
improvements are properly designed and constructed. The Utah Code authorizes completion and
warranty bonds:

           (2) (a) A land use authority shall require an applicant to complete a required
           landscaping or infrastructure improvement prior to any plat recordation or
           development activity.
                   (b) Subsection (2)(a) does not apply if:
                   (i) upon the applicant's request, the land use authority has authorized the
           applicant to post an improvement completion assurance in a manner that is
           consistent with local ordinance; and
                   (ii) the land use authority has established a system for the partial release of
           the improvement completion assurance as portions of required improvements are
           completed and accepted.
           (3) At any time up to the land use authority's acceptance of a landscaping or
           infrastructure improvement, and for the duration of each improvement warranty
           period, the land use authority may require the developer to:
                   (a) execute an improvement warranty for the improvement warranty
           period; and
                   (b) post a cash deposit, surety bond, letter of credit, or other similar
           security, as required by the municipality, in the amount of up to 10% of the lesser
           of the:
                   (i) engineer's original estimated cost of completion; or
                   (ii) applicant's reasonable proven cost of completion.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-604.5(2)-(3). 8

Local governments must adopt written standards which guide design and construction of public
improvements, and the same standards should apply to any work required during a warranty
period. “With reasonable diligence, each land use authority shall determine whether the
installation of required subdivision improvements or the performance of warranty work meets . .
. adopted standards.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509.5(3)(a). 9 Thus, local governments may
adopt reasonable standards governing construction of required public improvements and
standards governing repairs to those improvements during a warranty period.



7
  Id., §§ 10-9a-103(19) & (20); 17-27a-103(22) & (23) (Definitions of “Improvement Warranty” and “Improvement
Warranty Period,” which may not exceed one year).
8
  See also UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-604.5 (applicable to counties).
9
  See id., § 17-27a-509.5(3)(a); see also id., § 10-9a-103(19) (Improvement warranty means that required work
“complies with . . . written standards for design, materials, and workmanship . . ..”)

Advisory Opinion – American Fork City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 31, 2014 Page 4 of 6
Cadence Homes does not dispute that the City may require warranty bonds to guarantee work
performed on public improvements. Their question centers on whether the City may adopt new
standards for warranty work after approving a development application.

     II. Requirements Imposed on a Subdivision or Land Use Permit Must be
         Expressed in Writing at the Time the Application is Submitted or Approved.

Because the additional requirements for pavement repair and replacement were imposed after
Cadence applied for and received approval for its subdivision, the City cannot require them on
work done for that subdivision. The Utah Code restricts the conditions or requirements that may
be imposed on developers:

               (h) A municipality may not impose on an applicant who has submitted a
           complete application for preliminary subdivision approval a requirement that is
           not expressed in:
               (i) this chapter [i.e., Chapter 10-9a];
               (ii) a municipal ordinance; or
               (iii) a municipal specification for public improvements applicable to a
           subdivision or development that is in effect on the date that the applicant submits
           an application.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(h) (emphasis added). 10 In essence, this language prohibits
changing construction and warranty standards after an application is submitted or approved. 11 A
local government may adopt new requirements and standards, but they may only be imposed on
development applications received after the new standards were adopted.

Since Cadence’s application had been submitted and approved before 2013, the City may not
impose the new requirements adopted in Ordinance 2013-08-27. The new standards for
pavement repair and replacement may only be required from development applications received
after the effective date of that Ordinance. Cadence is still required to repair the roadways, as part
of the improvement warranty, by following whatever repair standards the City had in place when
the subdivision application was submitted.

Likewise, in the absence of a written standard, the City may not impose any standard it creates or
deems necessary. As stated above, the City may not impose a requirement that is not expressed in
the Utah Code, a municipal ordinance, or an applicable municipal specification for public
improvements. UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(h). Accordingly, the City does not have discretion
to apply unexpressed standards or requirements.



10
  See also id., § 17-27a-508 (applicable to counties).
11
  Subsection (h) prohibits changes from being imposed after an application for a subdivision is received. The next
subsection of that statute, subsection (i), prohibits new requirements from being imposed on existing land use
permits or final subdivision plats, reinforcing the conclusion that a local government may not apply new standards to
existing development applications or permits.

Advisory Opinion – American Fork City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 31, 2014 Page 5 of 6
                                          Conclusion
Local governments may require that developers provide completion assurance, to ensure that
public improvements are constructed, and warranty bonds, to ensure that public improvements
satisfy standards for design, materials, and workmanship. These assurances and bonds may be
required as a condition of development approval, if they are established as requirements when a
development application is submitted.

In like manner, a local government may adopt reasonable standards governing construction of
public improvements, and subsequent repairs under improvement warranties. In order to be
valid, however, these standards must be in writing, and must have been adopted before a
development application is submitted. New standards may not be imposed upon existing
development applications or on approved development permits.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – American Fork City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 31, 2014 Page 6 of 6
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                      Richard M. Colborn
                      City Recorder/Risk Manager
                      City of American Fork
                      51 East Main Street
                      American Fork, Utah 84003

On this ___________ Day of January, 2014, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
