                   Advisory Opinion #128
                         Parties: Charles D. Crippen and North Ogden City
                                         Issued: July 31, 2013

                                         TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                      B: Conditional Use Applications
                      Other Topics: (v) Interpretation of Ordinances
                                    (viii) Appealing Land Use Decisions

When no party appeals the final decision of the appeal authority to uphold the
issuance of a conditional use permit to the district court within 30 days, a party
may no longer challenge the conditional use permit, even if it was issued in
violation of applicable law. In addition, the City has discretion regarding whether
to revoke a conditional use permit for violation of conditions.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   GREG BELL
Lieutenant Governor




                                          ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                 Charles D. Crippen

      Local Government Entity:                       North Ogden City

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:           Tom’s Auto Service, L.L.C.

      Type of Property:                              Home Occupation (Automobile Repair)

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 July 31, 2013

      Opinion Authored By:                           James S. Wright
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                     Issue
      Did a city violate its ordinances when it issued a conditional use permit allowing an automobile
      repair business as a home occupation in a residential zone?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
      The Utah Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act requires a person to file a
      petition for review with the district court within 30 days after a final local land use decision. If a
      party does not file a timely petition for review, then the legality of a final local land use decision
      may no longer be challenged. In this case, Tom’s Auto Service, L.L.C. (“Tom’s Auto Service”)
      filed for a conditional use permit (“CUP”) in North Ogden City, Utah (“North Ogden” or the
      “City”) in 2010. The North Ogden Planning Commission (the “Planning Commission”) decided
      to approve the CUP and this decision was appealed to the North Ogden City Council (the “City
      Council”) as the appeal authority. The City Council reviewed this matter in October of 2010 and
      upheld the Planning Commission’s decision to issue the CUP to Tom’s Auto Service. No one
      appealed this final land use decision to the district court within 30 days and therefore the
      decision to issue the CUP to Tom’s Auto Service is final and can no longer be challenged
      regardless of whether it was issued in violation of any applicable ordinance. In addition, North
      Ogden City is within its discretion to decide not to revoke the CUP for violations of its
      conditions.
                                                        Review
Under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-205, a party may file a Request for an
Advisory Opinion with the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman (“Office”) at any time
prior to the rendering of a final decision by a local land use appeal authority. An Advisory
Opinion provides an early review of significant land use questions before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies arises so that those involved in a land use application or other specific
land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. This review hopefully can help
the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and understand the
relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this Advisory Opinion,
may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

The Office received a Request for an Advisory Opinion from Charles Crippen on May 28, 2013.
A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to S. Annette Spendlove, City Recorder, City of
North Ogden at 505 East 2600 North, North Ogden, Utah 84414. The City received that copy
on June 4, 2013.

                                                       Evidence
The Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information in preparing this
Advisory Opinion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion submitted by Charles Crippen and received by the
                 Office on May 28, 2013.
     2.          Response and attachments from North Ogden submitted by Jonathan Call and
                 received by the Office on June 11, 2013.
     3.          Letter and attachments submitted by Jolyon R. Walker and received by the Office on
                 June 18, 2013.
     4.          Letter and attachment submitted by Jolyon R. Walker and received by the Office on
                 June 26, 2013.
     5.          Letter and attachments submitted by Charles Crippen and received by the Office on
                 June 27, 2013.

                                                      Background
Tom Baguley operates Tom’s Auto Service, an automobile repair business, out of his residence in
North Ogden pursuant to a CUP received from the City in 2010. The Planning Commission
considered the CUP application and voted to approve the CUP. Some neighbors who opposed
locating an auto repair business in a residential neighborhood appealed this decision to the City
Council. The City Council affirmed the issuance of the CUP in October of 2010 and no party
appealed this final land use decision to the district court. Mr. Baguley has operated his auto
repair business in his garage since that time.

Advisory Opinion – Charles Crippen/North Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2013 Page 2 of 4
The CUP contains multiple conditions relating to the operation of the auto repair business,
including the requirement that the City review the CUP after the first six months from the
issuance date and then review it every year after that. The Planning Commission has conducted
the initial six-month review and then the annual reviews through the present time, and has
determined that the CUP should continue during each review.

Multiple residents made complaints about Tom’s Auto Service to the City prior to the Planning
Commission’s most recent annual review of the CUP, which occurred on May 1, 2013. The City
received complaints that Mr. Bagley failed to comply with a variety of the CUP conditions both
before and during the meeting. The Planning Commission reviewed the complaints and other
information about the CUP and ultimately approved its continuation.

Mr. Crippen and other neighbors (the “Appellants”) appealed this decision to the City Council,
the proper appeal authority for Planning Commission decisions. After reviewing evidence and
testimony both in support and opposition of the Planning Commission’s decision, the City
Council upheld the Planning Commission’s decision to allow the CUP to continue. The
Appellants disagree with this decision and believe the City’s approval of the CUP back in 2010
violated its ordinances.

                                                      Analysis
I.         The Deadline to Challenge the Legality of the CUP Has Passed.

Under Utah law, “A municipality is bound by the terms and standards of applicable land use
ordinances and shall comply with mandatory provisions of those ordinances.” UTAH CODE ANN.
§ 10-9a-509(2). This means that North Ogden may not issue conditional use permits in violation
of its own ordinances. Mr. Crippen and some other neighbors have alleged that North Ogden
violated the terms of its ordinances in granting the CUP and it should therefore be revoked.

Utah law also provides a deadline for appealing a final land use decision to district court as
follows:

           (2) (a) Any person adversely affected by a final decision made in the exercise of
           or in violation of the provisions of this chapter may file a petition for review of
           the decision with the district court within 30 days after the local land use
           decision is final.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-801(2)(a) (emphasis added). This means that in order to appeal any
alleged violation of a city’s land use ordinances, the aggrieved party must file suit in district
court within 30 days after the final local land use decision or lose the right to appeal a final
decision.

In this case, more than 30 days have passed since the final decision by North Ogden to issue the
CUP for the operation of Tom’s Auto Service. This means that regardless of whether the City

Advisory Opinion – Charles Crippen/North Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2013 Page 3 of 4
issued this CUP in violation of its ordinances, the time to challenge this decision has passed
under state law.

II.        The City Has Discretion to Revoke the CUP for Violations of Its Conditions.

The North Ogden City Code (“N.O.C.C.”) allows the City Council to revoke conditional use
permits in case of violations of their conditions after a review and recommendation by the
Planning Commission. It states:

           B. Revocation of Permit. A conditional use permit may be revoked by the city
           council after review and recommendation by the planning commission upon the
           permittee’s failure to comply with the conditions imposed with the original
           approval of the permit.

N.O.C.C. § 11-14-2(B) (emphasis added). Under this provision, the Appellants have an avenue
to request the revocation of the CUP if they can show that Mr. Baguley has violated the
conditions of the CUP in his operation of Tom’s Auto Service. The plain language meaning of
the permissive word “may” in this ordinance gives the City discretion regarding whether it
revokes the CUP or not, even if Tom’s Auto Service violated the CUP conditions. See Carrier v.
Salt Lake County, 104 P.3d 1208, 1216 (Utah 2004).

In this case, the City has decided not to revoke the CUP. This decision is proper based on the
discretion the ordinance gives North Ogden as to whether or not it revokes a conditional use
permit in case of violations of the permit’s conditions. The Appellants may make further
requests that the City revoke the CUP based on violations of its conditions and the City has
indicated it is willing to accept complaints alleging CUP violations at any time.

                                                      Conclusion
Under Utah law, the time has passed to seek review of North Ogden’s issuance of the CUP. The
Appellants may still challenge the CUP if Tom’s Auto Service violates any of the CUP
conditions. North Ogden’s ordinances give the City discretion about whether or not to revoke
the CUP in case of any violations if its conditions.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



Advisory Opinion – Charles Crippen/North Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2013 Page 4 of 4
NOTE:


This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached Advisory Opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63G-7-401.

These provisions of state code require the delivery of the Advisory Opinion to the agent at the
address designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental
entity in the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              S. Annette Spendlove, City Recorder
              City of North Ogden
              505 East 2600 North
              North Ogden, Utah 84414


On this ___________ day of July, 2013, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the foregoing governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
