                       Advisory Opinion 190
                                     Parties: Todd Jackson, Moab City
                                          Issued: September 8, 2017

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                        Exactions on Development




An ordinance mandating that a property owner abut a public road in order to
obtain a building permit serves a legitimate public purpose, and is enforceable.
Nevertheless, requiring a property owner to purchase property, construct a road,
and dedicate that road to the public in order to obtain a building permit is an
exaction, which must satisfy the rough proportionality analysis. The City may
require the property owner to build and dedicate only as much road as is justified
by the impact of his development.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI    BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director   Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:              Todd Jackson

        Local Government Entity:                    City of Moab

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:            Todd Jackson

        Type of Property:                           Residential

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:              September 8, 2017

        Opinion Authored By:                        Brent N. Bateman
                                                    Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                                     ISSUE
        Is a property owner obligated to show that his parcel abuts a public road, in compliance with
        local ordinance, in order to obtain a building permit? And must that property owner obtain,
        improve, install utilities, and dedicate that road to the public at his sole expense when other
        property owners will use the road and improvements?



                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        An ordinance mandating that a property owner abut a public road in order to obtain a building
        permit serves a legitimate public purpose, and is enforceable. No unconstitutional taking arises
        from this requirement in this matter. Nevertheless, requiring a property owner to purchase
        property, construct a road, and dedicate that road to the public in order to obtain a building
        permit is an exaction, which must satisfy the rough proportionality analysis. The City may
        require the property owner to build and dedicate only as much road as is justified by the impact
        of his development.
                                                    REVIEW
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts. A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Mr. Todd Jackson on March
27, 2017. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Rachel Stenta, City Recorder, City
of Moab, 217 East Center Street, Moab, Utah 84532.


                                                   EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion submitted by Mr. Todd Jackson on March 27, 2017.
     2. Response submitted by Mr. Christopher G. McAnany, Attorney for the City of Moab, on
        April 5, 2017.
     3. Reply submitted by Mr. Jackson, on April 13, 2017.
     4. Additional information, including aerial photographs of the property, submitted by Mr.
        Jackson on April 19, 2017.



                                                  BACKGROUND
In September 2015, Todd Jackson purchased a one-half acre parcel located at 549 E Center Street
in Moab, Utah. Sometime prior to 2015, the property contained a manufactured home with utility
hook-ups upon a cement pad. The property is currently vacant and unimproved, although it is
surrounded by properties developed with single family homes.

According to the City, Moab Center Street terminates at 501 East. Access to properties beyond
that point, including to Mr. Jackson’s parcel, is via individual private easements along a private
dirt lane. Multiple residences use this private lane as access. These properties lack frontage upon
a public street.

Prior to purchasing the property Mr. Jackson contacted the City regarding the parcel and any
issues related to potential development. The City responded with a “summary of issues”
containing 6 points that would need to be addressed. Items included sewer and water service,
storm water conveyance, street improvements, and the lack of a legal right-of-way. After
receiving this summary, Mr. Jackson proceeded with his purchase.

Advisory Opinion – Todd Jackson v. City of Moab
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Date: September 8, 2017 Page 2 of 7
Now, Mr. Jackson would like to build a residence and an accessory dwelling on his parcel. He
has not yet applied for a building permit, but has entered discussions with the City. In those
discussions, the City has pointed out that the Moab Municipal Code requires that all new
dwellings in town abut a public street:

           Except as otherwise provided in this title, at least one side of each lot used as a
           dwelling site shall abut upon a street which has been designated or dedicated to
           the public for street purposes.

Moab Municipal Code § 17.09.035. Mr. Jackson’s parcel does not abut a public street. It abuts
the private easement only. The “summary of issues” provided prior to Mr. Jackson’s purchase did
not mention this ordinance, although it did mention the lack of a legal right-of-way and need for
street improvements. Moab City has indicated its intention to enforce this ordinance as a
condition to issuing a building permit.

Moreover, Moab City design standards require that every public street be a minimum of 50 feet
wide. According to the City, the existing private drive is no wider than 16 feet, and thus does not
comply with the City’s minimum design standards for a public street. The City also indicates that
in order to qualify for a building permit, utility service upgrades within the right of way will also
be needed. Although some utility infrastructure is present and serving other properties, the City
indicates that it is insufficient to serve Mr. Jackson’s development.

Mr. Jackson objects to these requirements. He feels that if the City had properly informed him of
the street frontage problem, he would not have purchased the property. He argues that the City
should excuse him from the street frontage requirement either by fairness or to avoid a
constitutional taking. Moreover, he objects to the other building permit requirements as
excessive exactions, including obtaining and dedicating a 50 foot right of way, construction of
the public improvements in the right of way, and the utility upgrades.

The City argues that it has full authority to enact and enforce its abutment ordinance against Mr.
Jackson’s parcel, and may deny a building permit until Mr. Jackson dedicates or provides
evidence of a public right of way. In addition, the City argues that no extra utility capacity
currently exists, so the parcel must bring additional utility capacity. Moreover, since no actual
building permit application has been made, the City points out that the proportionality of the
City’s requirements is at this stage hypothetical.

                                                  ANALYSIS
I.         The Street Abutment Requirement

Mr. Jackson argues that the City never informed him of the street abutment requirement.
Therefore, the requirement should not apply to his parcel because (1) had the City informed him,
he would not have purchased the property, and (2) the City’s requirement renders his property
useless, and thus the abutment requirement is an unconstitutional taking.


Advisory Opinion – Todd Jackson v. City of Moab
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Date: September 8, 2017 Page 3 of 7
Moab City’s requirement that each building lot abut a public street serves a legitimate public
purpose. Requiring frontage on public roads ensures adequate access to property owners and
their guests, as well as to public safety vehicles. The requirement also encourages responsible
growth and development. See Johnson v. Hermes Associates, 2005 UT 82, 128 P.3d 1151 (access
to public streets important factor in development). Accordingly, it is a valid exercise of the City’s
authority to require that building lots abut a public street.

Although the City did provide Mr. Jackson with a “summary of issues,” the City’s failure to cite
the abutment requirement does not prohibit the City from enforcing this ordinance upon Mr.
Jackson’s parcel. The “summary of issues” provided by the City cannot be read as a final and
comprehensive checklist of issues, and a waiver or all unlisted issues. Certainly a plethora of
listed and unlisted City ordinances apply to development of this parcel in Moab. One of the
oldest established legal maxims is “ignorance of the law is no excuse.” Mr. Jackson cannot be
excused from the City’s ordinance requirement due to the fact that the City never specifically
told him about the requirement prior to his purchase of the property. A property owner has his
own duty to inquire into the requirements of the City. See Utah County v. Young, 615 P.2d 1265,
1268 (Utah 1980). And individuals are deemed to have constructive notice of the applicable law.
In re Adoption of B.Y., 2015 UT 67 ¶19. It appears that the abutment requirement has been in
place for years. It applied to the property and to other similarly situated properties, prior to the
time when Mr. Jackson purchased the parcel. Moreover, abutment and frontage requirements are
common in communities throughout Utah. The City did not need to inform him of this specific
ordinance in order to enforce it. Accordingly, Mr. Jackson cannot be excused from the ordinance
requirement simply because the City did not specifically inform him of it.

Mr. Jackson argues that requiring him to comply with the frontage requirement causes a taking of
his property without just compensation, because the requirement renders his property useless.
This claim for a taking arises out of a paragraph in Advisory Opinion #77, (AO#77) issued by
this Office. The facts in that Advisory Opinion are very similar to the present matter. The
property owners’ lot lacked frontage on a city street, and access to their parcel was by an
unpaved private easement. The property owners wanted to develop, and the city informed them
that before a building permit could be approved, they would need to comply with the city
ordinance requiring frontage on a public road. In order to comply, the owners would need to
obtain property from private owners. The roadway would also need to be built to the city’s
standards. The owners objected to the requirement to create a road, and felt that the burden upon
them to build the road was disproportionate.

The paragraph in AO#77 that Mr. Jackson relies upon reads:

           While the City’s frontage requirement is reasonable, however, the Craigs’ rights in
           their property must also be recognized. For whatever reason, the parcel was
           created in the late 1980s without frontage on a public street. The Craigs acquired
           that parcel in good faith, hoping to construct a home and barn. They have the
           right to a reasonable expectation that they can put their property to some
           economically beneficial use. If the City fails to balance those interests, an
           unconstitutional taking of property without just compensation may result.


Advisory Opinion – Todd Jackson v. City of Moab
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Date: September 8, 2017 Page 4 of 7
This paragraph does not excuse Mr. Jackson from complying with the frontage requirement. This
statement merely reminds the City that it should work with a property owner to avoid a taking,
both in terms of permitting some economically viable use, and in terms of the rough
proportionality discussion that follows that passage in AO#77. The City must allow some
economically viable use on the property. However, that use need not be any use desired by Mr.
Jackson, especially when such use does not comply with legitimate requirements. This paragraph
did not excuse the AO#77 property owners from their frontage requirement. It does not excuse
Mr. Jackson’s parcel now. AO#77 later reads:

           The City may be able to require the property owners to provide access to their
           property, but the real question is how much road the City can require the property
           owners to build.

This statement applies equally to Mr. Jackson’s matter.

Enforcing a legitimate requirement against the parcel does not mean that the City has committed
a regulatory taking. In order to do that, the City would need to have taken something from Mr.
Jackson. The threshold inquiry to any takings claim is whether an individual has a protected
property interest, and whether that interest was taken or damaged by government action: “[T]o
succeed in its takings claim, [a property owner] must establish: (1) that it has a protectable
interest in the property in question, and (2) that the interest has been taken or damaged
by government action.” L.C. Canyon Partners, L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, 2011 UT 63 ¶25.
Setting aside whether Mr. Jackson has a protectable property interest in receiving a building
permit, the City has not taken anything from Mr. Jackson. Nothing has changed with Mr.
Jackson’s parcel since he purchased it. The parcel can still be accessed through its easement upon
the private dirt lane. The parcel may still be used in any way that complies with Moab City
ordinances, just as before. The parcel can be developed if it abuts a public road. No government
action has taken a protected property interest from Mr. Jackson, since nothing has changed with
regard to the parcel from the time Mr. Jackson purchased it. Accordingly, no taking has occurred.

Zoning estoppel likewise does not excuse Mr. Jackson from the abutment requirement. Zoning
estoppel requires that the owner expend significant funds in development and improvements on
the property. It is not enough that the owner expended funds in purchasing the property. See
Stucker v. Summit County, 870 P.2d 283, 290 (Utah Ct. App. 1994) (purchase or ownership of
property, by itself, is not a sufficient expense to justify a vested right by estoppel).

Accordingly, as with the property owners in AO#77, Mr. Jackson will need to show that his
property abuts a public street in order to qualify for a building permit on his property.

II.        The Improvement and Utility Requirements

The City may be able to require Mr. Jackson to provide a public street to his property, but the
real question is how much road the City can require Mr. Jackson to build. The City’s ability to
impose public dedication requirements on Mr. Jackson is limited by the constitutional exaction
law. An exaction is a government-mandated contribution of property imposed as a condition of
development approval. B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake Cnty. (BAM III), P.3d 1161, 1168 (Utah

Advisory Opinion – Todd Jackson v. City of Moab
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Date: September 8, 2017 Page 5 of 7
2012). Exactions can include the donation of property, providing public improvements, cash, or
any number of items dedicated to the public. Koontz v. St. Johns River Water, 133 S. Ct. 2586
(2013).

Exactions are legal if they satisfy the “rough proportionality” analysis adopted by the U.S.
Supreme Court and the Utah Supreme Court. The rough proportionality test has been codified in
the Utah Code as follows:

           A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in
           a land use application, . . . if:
               (a)    an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
               each exaction; and,
               (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
               impact of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1). The language of this statute was borrowed directly from the U.S.
Supreme Court decisions in Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825 (1987) and
Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994). See B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake Cnty. (B.A.M.
I), 128 P.3d 1161, 1170 (Utah 2006). The purpose of this test is to effectuate the protections
guaranteed by the Takings Clause, which is “to bar Government from forcing some people alone
to bear public burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a
whole.” Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960).

Each of the City’s requirements, that Mr. Jackson purchase land for public use, construct
improvements, dedicate a public street, and provide utility improvements, constitute an
“exaction.” Thus, in order to be valid, each of the City’s requirements must satisfy the rough
proportionality analysis. According to the Utah Supreme Court, the rough proportionality
analysis “has two aspects: first, the exaction and impact must be related in nature; second, they
must be related in extent.” B.A.M. II, 2008 UT 74 ¶ 9, 196 P.3d at 603. The “nature” aspect
focuses on the relationship between the purported impact and proposed exaction. The “extent”
aspect measures the impact of the proposed development against the proposed exaction. Thus, in
order to be valid, the cost of an exaction must be roughly equivalent to the cost that a local
government would incur to assuage the impact attributable to a new development.

Requiring Mr. Jackson to provide the road and improvements complies with the nature aspect of
the exaction analysis because constructing a public road and adding utilities “solves” the
problem caused by Mr. Jackson’s proposed development. However, requiring that Mr. Jackson
purchase sufficient property and construct and dedicate a full 50 foot width road to city
standards, solely to access the one or two homes on his parcel, likely will not satisfy the extent
aspect of the rough proportionality analysis. Mr. Jackson’s impact, as proposed, arises out of one
home and one accessory dwelling unit. The City may certainly ask him to participate in the
construction and dedication of improvements, but only in proportion to those impacts. Other
properties will use the public road, the improvements upon the road, and the utilities within the
road. When one person is required to provide public improvements that will absorb the impact of
other properties, not just his own, the exaction is disproportionate.


Advisory Opinion – Todd Jackson v. City of Moab
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Date: September 8, 2017 Page 6 of 7
As the City points out, Mr. Jackson has not made his building permit application, and thus the
City has not formalized its exactions. Accordingly, this discussion is indeed hypothetical. Suffice
to say, however, that were the City to place the full burden upon Mr. Jackson for the road,
improvements, utilities, etc., the exaction would certainly be excessive. The City has indicated a
willingness to explore options regarding the exactions, as has Mr. Jackson. This is encouraged.

Finally, note that the exaction analysis concerns the expense Mr. Jackson must incur in order to
provide public improvements. It does not shift the burden of providing a road that abuts Mr.
Jackson’s parcel to the City or to any other party. Mr. Jackson must still show that his property
abuts a public street, even if it means acquiring permission or property to obtain the public road
from neighbors. However, the abutment ordinance does not require Mr. Jackson to provide a 50
foot fully improved road in order to get a building permit. Requiring that is likely an excessive
exaction. The ordinance simply requires that Mr. Jackson’s property abut a public street. Once
done, the exaction analysis will govern the extent of Mr. Jackson’s responsibility for the road and
improvements.


                                                  CONCLUSION
The City has a legitimate interest in ensuring that developed properties abut public roads. Mr.
Jackson is not excused from that requirement because the City did not inform him of it, nor
because the requirement constitutes an unconstitutional taking. However, that and all of the
City’s exactions must satisfy the rough proportionality analysis. The City may require that Mr.
Jackson’s property abut a public road. When Mr. Jackson applies for his building permit, the City
must formulate its exactions to comply with the constitutional exaction laws.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Todd Jackson v. City of Moab
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Date: September 8, 2017 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in UTAH CODE § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:


              Rachel Stenta, City Recorder
              City of Moab
              217 East Center Street
              Moab, UT 84532



On this ___________ Day of September, 2017, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
