                     Advisory Opinion #187
                     Parties: Ironwood Development Group, L.C., Smithfield City
                                            Issued: June 15, 2017

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                                        Exactions on Development

A municipality may require a developer to improve a road that will be impacted by
its development, but the extent of that requirement must be roughly proportionate
to the development's impact. The city’s requirement that the developer expand a
road and install curbs, gutters, and sidewalks on both sides, is an exaction. This
does not appear roughly proportionate to the impact of the development, because
it requires Ironwood to provide improvements that should be the responsibility of
another developer or the community as a whole.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
    Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 SPENCER J. COX           FRANCINE A. GIANI       BRENT N. BATEMAN
Lieutenant Governor       Executive Director      Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                               ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                   Ironwood Development Group, L.C.

      Local Government Entity:                         Smithfield City

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:             Ironwood Development Group, L.C.

      Type of Property:                                Residential Subdivision

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                   June 15, 2017

      Opinion Authored By:                             Pablo Tapia, Legal Intern
                                                       Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                                       Issues
      Can Smithfield City require a developer to expand an abutting road and install curbs, gutters, and
      sidewalks on both sides of that road as a condition to plat approval?



                                      Summary of Advisory Opinion
      A municipality may impose an exaction on a developer to make improvements as a condition to
      approving the land use application. The exaction must satisfy the “rough proportionality test” in
      order to be valid. The test is a constitutional standard. Whether imposed administratively or by
      ordinance, a city’s requirement must meet this test.

      Smithfield City’s exaction does not appear to satisfy the extent portion of the rough
      proportionality test. Although some exaction would be appropriate and legal, the requirement to
      improve both sides of Upper Canyon Road abutting Ironwood’s Phase 4 development appears
      disproportionate to the impacts created by Phase 4 of the development.
                                                Review
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Mr. Craig L. Winder, on behalf of
Ironwood Development Group, L.C. on February 17, 2017. A copy of that request was sent via
certified mail to James P. Gass, City Manager, City of Smithfield, 69 North Main, Smithfield, UT
84335.


                                               Evidence
The Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information in preparing this
Advisory Opinion:

      1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Craig L. Winder, on behalf of
                  Ironwood Development Group, L.C., and received by the Office of the Property
                  Rights Ombudsman on February 17, 2017.
      2.          Response submitted by Mr. Miles P. Jensen, of Olson & Hoggan, on behalf of
                  Smithfield City submitted and dated March 15, 2017, and all attached documents.
      3.          Letter dated March 27, 2016 submitted by Mr. Winder on March 31, 2017.


                                               Background
Smithfield Heights is a residential subdivision located on the northeastern limits of Smithfield
City. Ironwood Development Group, L.C. (“Ironwood”) is the developer of those residences.
Smithfield City approved Ironwood’s development of 27 lots in Phases 1, 2, and 3. Most of those
lots have homes on them now. Phase 4 of the project calls for the development of eight lots and
is currently under consideration for approval by the city. The land intended for Phase 4 sits
between 600 East and 730 East with homes on either side. Phases 1, 2, and 3 are directly to the
north and to the west of Phase 4. The Phase 4 site is abutted by Upper Canyon Road on its
southern boundary. This 22-foot wide country road leads to a canyon to the east, outside the city.
To the west, the road is the main connection to the city for the residents of Smithfield Heights. To
the south of the road is an undeveloped parcel of land owned by a different residential
homebuilder.


Advisory Opinion – Ironwood/Smithfield City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 15, 2017 – page 2 of 6 pages
Smithfield City has informed Ironwood that the city will approve the Phase 4 development on
the condition that Ironwood improve the abutting portion of Upper Canyon Road. The condition
requires Ironwood to widen the road by seven feet on both sides and install curbs, gutters, and
sidewalks on both sides. Ironwood objects to improving both sides of the road. Ironwood argues
that the city’s requirement is not proportionate to the burden that the development imposes on the
city, and that Ironwood should only have to improve its own side of the road. Smithfield City
explains that the requirement is necessary for the traffic congestion that the development will
create.

                                                    Analysis
I. Exactions and the “Rough Proportionality” Test

Smithfield City’s requirement that Ironwood improve Upper Canyon Road is an exaction. An
exaction is a government-mandated contribution of property imposed as a condition of
development approval. B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, (BAM III), 2012 UT 26, ¶16.
Exactions arise from the principle that development causes impacts to a community. In order to
assuage those impacts, the community can exact from the developer property or improvements
for dedication to the public.

The Utah Code provides the test to determine whether exactions are legal and appropriate:

            A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in a land
            use application..., if:

                        a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
                           exaction; and,
                        b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
                           impact of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1). The language of this statute was borrowed directly from the U.S.
Supreme Court analyses in Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825 (1987) and
Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994), and has become known as the “rough
proportionality test.” See B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, (BAM I), 2006 UT 2, ¶8. If
the exaction meets this test, it is valid. If the exaction fails this test, it violates the protections
guaranteed by the Takings Clauses of the Utah and U.S. Constitutions. Call v. West Jordan, 614
P.2d 1257, 1259 (Utah 1980). Thus this test “bar[s] Government from forcing some people alone
to bear public burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a
whole.” Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960). An exaction helps pay the costs of
the development’s impact. An excessive exaction requires the developer to pay for impacts
beyond its own. Banberry Development Corporation v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899, 903
(Utah 1981).

An exaction must satisfy both parts of the rough proportionality test. The first part requires an
essential link between the exaction and a legitimate governmental interest. The second part


Advisory Opinion – Ironwood/Smithfield City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 15, 2017 – page 3 of 6 pages
requires that the exaction be roughly proportionate to the impacts the development creates. The
Utah Supreme Court refined the elements of the rough proportionality analysis in B.A.M.
Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County (BAM II), 2008 UT 74. The court declared that “the
exaction and impact must be related in nature” and that “they must be related in extent.” Id. at ¶
9. The nature component takes the form of a problem and a solution. The exaction and the
impact are related in nature when the exaction is the solution that “directly addresses the specific
problem (the impact).” Id. at ¶ 13. If the exaction is a solution to a problem the development
creates, the nature element of the rough proportionality test is satisfied.

Finally, the exaction and the impact are related in extent when “the costs to each party are
roughly equivalent.” Id. at ¶ 11. The court stated that cost is the most appropriate measure in
determining whether the exaction and impact relate in extent. Id. The cost that the city would
incur by dealing with the impact must be roughly equivalent to the developer’s cost in paying the
exaction in order for the exaction and the impact to be related in extent. Id. at ¶ 13. They do not
need to be exactly equal. Id. at ¶ 12, n.4. But a city “must make some effort to quantify its
findings…beyond a conclusory statement that it could offset some of the traffic demand
generated.” Dolan, 512 U.S. at 395-96. If they are roughly equivalent, then the extent element of
the rough proportionality test has been met.

The exaction imposed on Ironwood as a requirement for site development approval, therefore,
must meet the “rough proportionality test.” Smithfield City’s requirement must solve the
problem that Ironwood’s development creates. Ironwood’s costs to improve Upper Canyon Road
must also be proportionate to the impact that its development imposes on the city’s
infrastructure.

II. The Upper Canyon Road Exaction

Ironwood argues that the requirement to expand Upper Canyon Road and add curbs, gutters, and
sidewalks to both sides of the road is excessive. It claims that the requirement is not
proportionate to the impact of the development and thus does not meet the rough proportionality
test.

In response, Smithfield City points out that the requirement is appropriate because the road will
almost exclusively be used by the subdivision that Ironwood is developing, and will increase
automobile, bicycle, and foot traffic in the area. Additionally, Smithfield City argues that the
ordinances are clear in their language and make no exceptions to the requirement to improve
both sides of an abutting road. See Smithfield Municipal Code §§ 16.20.060 and 16.16.020.

      A. An Essential Link Exists Between the Exaction and a Legitimate Government Interest

Smithfield City has a legitimate governmental interest related to the requirement imposed on
Ironwood. The city has an interest in maintaining adequate roads for the use and safety of the
public within the city’s boundaries. See Carrier v. Lindquist, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18, 37 P.3d 1112,
1117. Thus, an essential link exists between the city’s interest to provide adequate roads and the
requirement for Ironwood to improve Upper Canyon Road.

Advisory Opinion – Ironwood/Smithfield City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 15, 2017 – page 4 of 6 pages
      B. The Exaction Satisfies the Nature Aspect of the Rough Proportionality Test

As part of the rough proportionality analysis, the exaction by Smithfield City and the impact
created by Ironwood must first be related in nature. The City’s requirement must be a solution
that directly addresses a problem created by Phase 4. Smithfield City requires that Ironwood
improve the portion of Upper Canyon Road abutting Phase 4 because the development will
increase traffic. That is no doubt true. The widening of the road and installation of curb and
gutter is a solution to that problem. Therefore, the exaction to expand the road relates in nature to
the development’s impact, and thus satisfies that aspect of the test.

      C. The Exaction Fails the Extent Aspect of the Rough Proportionality Test

The exaction and the impact must also be related in extent. In order to satisfy the extent aspect of
the test, Ironwood’s cost for improving Upper Canyon Road must be roughly equivalent to the
impact of the development on the community. Generally, greater impact justifies a greater
exaction. Where the impact is small, the exaction should likewise be small.

Phase 4 will clearly have some impact on Upper Canyon Road. The addition of eight lots will
increase traffic on the road. Thus, some exaction is appropriate. The City’s exaction requires
Ironwood to expand and improve both sides of Upper Canyon Road. Smithfield City argues that
this requirement is not excessive because Ironwood need only expand an already-paved road.
However, as explained in Dolan, the City must show that the exaction is proportionate to the
impact by quantifying its findings. See Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391. It must go beyond a mere
statement that the exaction will offset some of the traffic. The city correctly indicates that traffic
in the area will increase, but does not provide further data to show how much the traffic will
increase, or how much additional road is needed to absorb that increase. Smithfield City does not
provide sufficient evidence to perform a full analysis of the extent of proportionality.

Nevertheless, even without the required findings by the City, the exaction appears excessive. The
language of the exaction statute states that the exaction must be roughly proportionate to the
impact of the proposed development.

            (1)    A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development
            proposed in a land use application. . . if:
            (a)    an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
            each exaction; and
            (b)    each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
            impact of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1) (emphasis added). The city argues that the impact arises from the
total 34 lots from Phases 1 to 4, and that requires widening and improvement of both sides of the
road. However, phases 1-3 received approval long ago. Ironwood’s proposed development is
Phase 4. Thus, according to the plain language of the statute, Smithfield City can only impose an
exaction based on the impact of the proposed development: Phase 4, consisting of eight lots. The

Advisory Opinion – Ironwood/Smithfield City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 15, 2017 – page 5 of 6 pages
other already-approved 27 lots from the other phases are not proposed development. The current
exaction should address the Phase 4 impact and require improvements proportionate to the eight
lots.

An exaction is disproportionate if it requires a developer to pay for impacts beyond its own.
Banberry, 631 P.2d at 903. Often, as is the case here, a road will have different landowners on
either side. Both landowners will use the road at some point. Requiring one landowner to
improve both sides of the road will generally signify that one landowner is providing
improvements that another landowner should provide. This is certainly not always the case.
Circumstances could exist that would justify one landowner improving both sides of a road. But
nothing has been shown here to require Ironwood to expand and improve both sides of the road.
Requiring Ironwood to make improvements to its own side of the road may be proportionate. But
development of the opposite side of the road appears to involve the impacts of others. Moreover,
although it is unknown whether this is the case, the exaction becomes more disproportionate if
the city will require Ironwood to dedicate for the expansion land that does not presently belong
to Ironwood. Ironwood has no duty to pay for someone else’s future impact.

The fact that the local ordinances could be read to require development and improvements of the
full road does not justify requiring Ironwood to improve the full width. An exaction imposed by
ordinance is still an exaction. Exactions must meet the rough proportionality test whether
imposed by ordinance or by administrative act. The legislature “intended to apply the rough
proportionality test to all exactions, irrespective of their source.” BAM I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 46. If the
City desires to have both sides of the road improved, they can certainly do so. They will just
need to pay for the excessive portion in some other way. The exaction analysis does not dictate
how much improvement the City can construct. It limits how much improvement that they can
make this developer pay for. The City is free to find other funding to pay for the improvements it
wants beyond Ironwood’s proportionate share.


                                              Conclusion
A municipality may require a developer to improve a road that will be impacted by its
development, but the extent of that requirement must be roughly proportionate to the impact.
Smithfield City’s requirement, that Ironwood expand Upper Canyon Road and install curbs,
gutters, and sidewalks on both sides, is an exaction. This does not appear roughly proportionate
to the impact of the Phase 4 development, because it requires Ironwood to provide improvements
that should be the responsibility of another developer or the community as a whole.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


Advisory Opinion – Ironwood/Smithfield City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 15, 2017 – page 6 of 6 pages
NOTE:


This is an Advisory Opinion, as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Utah Department of Commerce. This Advisory Opinion’s conclusions
are based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the conclusions reached in another matter with different facts and
circumstances or where the relevant law has changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion after reviewing and
analyzing the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone
with an interest in these issues desiring to protect that interest should seek the advice of
legal counsel and no party may rely on this document to protect any legal interest.

An Advisory Opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not
binding on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the
subject of an Advisory Opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of
action is litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the
Advisory Opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may be
awarded reasonable attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that
cause of action from the date of the delivery of the Advisory Opinion to the date of the
court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached Advisory Opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63G-7-401.

These provisions of state code require the delivery of the Advisory Opinion to the agent at the
address designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental
entity in the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:



              Craig Giles, City Manager
              Smithfield City
              96 South Main
              Smithfield, Utah 84335


On this ___________ day of June, 2017, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the foregoing governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
