                     Advisory Opinion #196
                             Parties: Russell & Maraly Frandsen; Provo City
                                             Issued: May 25, 2018

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                                     Conditional Use Applications
                                  Entitlement to Application Approval

The City improperly denied the applicants’ conditional use permit. The City Code
allows a residence to concurrently operate both a legal accessory apartment and
a Family Group Day Care, in accordance with applicable standards and
requirements. The City has not presented evidence that reasonably anticipated
detrimental effects of the proposed Family Group Day Care cannot be
substantially mitigated through reasonable conditions.

In light of this conclusion, the City must specifically identify the parking standard
that will apply to the applicants’ proposal and approve a reasonable pickup/drop
off plan that complies with the plain requirements of the City’s parking ordinance.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI      BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director     Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor



                                             ADVISORY OPINION
        Advisory Opinion Requested By:                Russell & Maraly Frandsen

        Local Government Entity:                      Provo City

        Type of Property:                             Residential

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:                May 25, 2018

        Opinion Authored By:                          Jordan S. Cullimore
                                                      Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                       ISSUE
        Did the City lawfully deny the applicants’ conditional use permit application to operate a
        preschool in their residence, which also contains an occupied student apartment?

                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

        The City improperly denied the applicants’ conditional use permit. The City Code plainly allows
        a residence to concurrently operate both a legal accessory apartment and a Family Group Day
        Care, in accordance with applicable standards and requirements. The City has not presented
        evidence that reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed Family Group Day Care
        cannot be substantially mitigated through reasonable conditions.

        In light of this conclusion, the City must specifically identify the parking standard that will apply
        to the applicants’ proposal and approve a reasonable pickup/drop off plan that complies with the
        plain requirements of the City’s parking ordinance.

                                                     REVIEW
        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
        administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
        application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
        hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Maraly Frandsen on March 8, 2018. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Amanda Ercanbrack, Recorder for Provo City,
at 351 West Center Street, Provo, Utah.

                                                EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Maraly Frandsen on March 8, 2018.
     2. Provo City March 15, 2018 Board of Adjustment Staff Report, submitted by Maraly
        Frandsen on March 10, 2018.
     3. Response from Provo City, submitted by Marcus Draper, Attorney for Provo City, on
        April 3, 2018.
     4. Rebuttal letter, submitted by Maraly Frandsen on April 9, 2018.

                                               BACKGROUND
Russell and Maraly Frandsen own a home located at 997 Briar Avenue in Provo City (the
“City”). Briar Avenue is located in an area of the City locally referred to as the “tree streets”.
This area of the tree streets is zoned R1.8(S), which is a single family residential district that also
allows accessory apartments in owner-occupied residences on certain conditions. The tree streets
area is located in close proximity to Brigham Young University, making the apartments a
convenient housing option for students attending the university. According to the materials
submitted, the Frandsens’ home has a legal accessory apartment that may house up to four
unrelated individuals, in addition to the Frandsens’ family.

In June 2015, the Frandsens also began operating a Montessori school in their home under a
City-issued “Home Occupation” permit. The Provo City Code (the “City Code”) allows a
“family day care service” serving up to 6 children as a “minor home occupation”. To operate a
minor home occupation in a residence, the property owner must simply obtain a Home
Occupation Permit and comply with conditions outlined in the Home Occupation Chapter of the
City’s zoning ordinance. See PROVO CITY CODE § 14.41.040.

Over time, the school’s enrollment increased beyond the 6-child limit, and sometime during the
summer of 2016, the Frandsens began the process of applying for a conditional use permit to
allow them to operate a “Family Group Day Care”, which would allow the Frandsens to legally
serve up to 12 children. See PROVO CITY CODE § 14.34.270(2).

Between that time and February 2018, the Frandsens progressed through the development review
process, which involved several conversations with staff, and submitting and revising plans


Advisory Opinion – Russell & Maraly Frandsen
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 25, 2018      Page 2 of 8
prepared both by the Frandsens and licensed engineers in an attempt to comply with City Code
requirements related to parking and access concerns, among others.

Subsequently, on February 7, 2018 a City administrative hearing officer considered the
Frandsens’ conditional use permit application and denied the application based upon the finding
that “[t]he impact of a single-family home having a 12 student preschool and a 4 bedroom
accessory apartment is disproportionate to the single-family character of the neighborhood.”
Administrative Hearing Report of Action, dated February 7, 2018.

The Frandsens subsequently appealed the denial of their permit application to the City Board of
Adjustment and also submitted an advisory opinion request to our office, asking us to examine
whether it is legal under the Provo City Code and state law to use the legal accessory apartment
and also operate a Family Group Day Care serving up to 12 children in their home
simultaneously.

                                                  ANALYSIS
The City denied the Frandsens’ conditional use permit application on the basis that “[t]he impact
of a single-family home having a 12 student preschool and a 4 bedroom accessory apartment is
disproportionate to the single-family character of the neighborhood.”

Both the City and the Frandsens agree that the Frandsens' home at 997 Briar Avenue contains a
legal accessory apartment that may house up to four unrelated individuals. Both parties
additionally agree that the City Code does not explicitly prohibit the operation of a Family Group
Day Care in a home with a legal accessory apartment. Where the parties appear to disagree is on
the question of whether the City may deny the Frandsens’ conditional use permit based upon the
findings above and others discussed below.

I.         The City Improperly Denied the Frandsens’ Conditional Use Permit to Operate a
           12-Student Family Group Day Care

           A.          Conditional Uses Generally

State law grants local governments authority to designate certain land uses as conditional uses
within their individual zoning districts. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-507(1)(a). Utah State Code defines a
conditional use as “a land use that, because of its unique characteristics or potential impact on
the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent land uses, may not be compatible in some
areas or may be compatible only if certain conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the
detrimental impacts.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-103(5).

State law recognizes that in certain cases a city may deny a conditional use permit if the
proposed use is wholly incompatible in a given situation. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-507(2)1 clarifies,
however, that such a result is exceptional:

1
  The State Legislature amended portions of Utah Code Section 10-9a-507 in the 2018 Legislative session. The
changes, which took effect May 8, 2018, did not affect the substance of the provisions involved here, so we cite the
amended provisions for clarity and ease of reference.
Advisory Opinion – Russell & Maraly Frandsen
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 25, 2018      Page 3 of 8
           (2)(a)(i) A [city] shall approve a conditional use if reasonable conditions are
           proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
           effects of the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards.
           …
           (c) If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
           cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the imposition of reasonable
           conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the [city] may deny
           the conditional use.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-507(2)(a)(i), (2)(c) (emphasis added).

Thus, a city must approve a conditional use if the proposed use satisfies the local code’s plain
and objective requirements, and, in accordance with applicable standards, the city can impose or
the applicant can propose reasonable conditions to substantially mitigate “reasonably anticipated
detrimental effects” of the proposed use. This is the default rule.2

If, however, an applicant proposes to establish a conditional use in a location that, because of
extraordinary circumstances, would create detrimental impacts that could not be reasonably
mitigated, essentially causing the use to operate as a “per se” nuisance, state law allows for
denial of the use. To reach this result, however, the city would need to present substantial and
competent evidence3 that there is no possible way to mitigate4 the use’s identified detrimental
effects through reasonable conditions.

           B.          Denial of the Frandsens’ Conditional Use Permit

Here, the City improperly denied the Frandsens’ conditional use permit application. The
materials submitted to this office indicate that both city staff and the applicant have
acknowledged that the applicant has proposed, and the City could have imposed reasonable
conditions to substantially mitigate the use’s anticipated detrimental effects related to parking
and traffic impacts. It appears that the City denied the permit largely because City staff feels that
a residential dwelling should not operate an accessory apartment and a Family Group Day Care
concurrently. This is not a sufficient basis to deny a conditional use.

2
  The City asserts that, pursuant to PROVO CITY CODE § 14.02.040, the City may deny a proposed conditional use if
“the subject use will be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons residing in the vicinity or
injurious to property in the vicinity,” unless “the applicant [proposes] or consent[s] to curative measures which will
make the proposed use not contrary to” applicable standards. This standard is not the governing state law on
conditional uses. The City must apply the standard articulated in UTAH CODE § 10-9a-507(2).
3
  This excerpt from a Pennsylvania appellate court decision, quoted in 8-44 Zoning and Land Use Controls § 44.01
(2018), is instructive and applicable: “The law on conditional uses is well-settled. A conditional use is one that has
been legislatively approved for a particular zoning district, so long as the proposed use satisfies the standards for
such a use set forth in the zoning ordinance. Once that burden is satisfied, the applicant is entitled to the conditional
use, and the burden shifts to the objectors. The objectors must prove, to a high degree of probability, that aspects of
the proposed use will adversely impact the health, safety and welfare of the community in ways not expected by the
legislative body when it established its list of approved, conditional uses. Speculation of possible harms is not
sufficient to satisfy this burden.” HHI Trucking & Supply, Inc. v. Borough Council, 990 A.2d 152 (Pa. Commw. Ct.
2010) (internal citations omitted).
4
  Note that this word is not “eliminate”.
Advisory Opinion – Russell & Maraly Frandsen
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 25, 2018      Page 4 of 8
                       1.         Health & Safety Considerations

The City advances several justifications for denying the Frandsens’ conditional use permit
application. The City contends that the Frandsens’ proposed day care use is “detrimental to the
health, safety, and general welfare of persons residing in the vicinity and injurious to property in
the vicinity because the proposed use creates ‘unreasonable risks to the safety of persons or
property because of vehicular traffic or parking, large gatherings of people, or other causes,’
‘unreasonably interfere[s] with the lawful use of surrounding property.’ and ‘create[s] a need for
essential municipal services which cannot be reasonably met.’”

The City asserts it could not impose conditions to safely mitigate conflicts related to student
drop-off and pick-up along Briar Avenue, or that “the extent to which mitigation would occur
would substantially alter the character of the residential neighborhood.” To support this
conclusion, the City presents observational evidence that on-street parking on Briar Avenue is
highly volatile, which causes parents to stop in the middle of the street to drop of children. Staff
also observed parents and children crossing the street outside of designated crosswalks. From
this evidence, the City concluded that the use obstructs ingress and egress to surrounding
properties, and creates unreasonable risks to the safety of persons.

On the contrary, these are conditions common and attendant to any use of land that involves drop
off and pick up of children. Both the City and the Frandsens acknowledge there are other
permitted Family Group Day Care facilities throughout the city that harmoniously exist in
residential neighborhoods. The city may impose reasonable conditions to mitigate the
detrimental effects identified, but it may not outright deny the use simply because vehicles may
occasionally stop along the road or parents and children may choose to cross the street where
there isn’t a crosswalk.

                       2.         Neighborhood Character

The City further asserts that the impact of a single-family residence that includes a 12-student
preschool and a 4-bedroom accessory apartment is “disproportionate to the single-family
character of the neighborhood.” This argument fails because the operative provisions of the City
Code allow concurrent occupation of an accessory apartment and operation of a Family Group
Day Care in a single-family dwelling in the R1.8(S) zoning district.

Utah courts interpret local zoning ordinances in favor of allowing the property owner’s desired
use. See Patterson v. Utah County Bd. of Adjustment, 893 P.2d 602, 606 (Utah Ct. App. 1995)
(concluding that since zoning ordinances are “in derogation of a property owner’s common-law
right to unrestricted use…of property,” provisions restricting or permitting land uses should be
construed in favor of the property owner’s desired use); see also Carrier v. Salt Lake County,
2004 UT 98 ¶ 31.

Provo City Code explicitly allows accessory apartments in the R1.8(S) zone, see PROVO CITY
CODE § 14.30.030, and the City acknowledges that the Frandsens’ home has a legally established
apartment. The City Code also allows a Family Group Day Care as a conditionally permitted use

Advisory Opinion – Russell & Maraly Frandsen
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 25, 2018      Page 5 of 8
in all homes within the City, without qualification. See PROVO CITY CODE § 14.34.270(2).
Consequently, as long as the property owner can comply with applicable code provisions, the
City must allow both uses, even where the property owner conducts both uses concurrently. The
City has not identified any provisions in the City Code that would compel a different conclusion.

Moreover, it is not City staff’s role to make subjective determinations of neighborhood character.
The substantive, legislatively-enacted provisions of the Code principally establish neighborhood
character. The Utah Supreme Court recently articulated this principle in McElhaney v. Moab
City, 2017 UT 65. In McElhaney, the court overturned Moab City’s denial of a conditional use
permit to operate a bed and breakfast. One of the reasons the City gave for denying the
conditional use permit was that the proposed use was “inconsistent with [the City’s] general
plan….” Id. at ¶ 39. The court rejected this explanation as insufficient, observing that, without
further explanation, “it is difficult to see how placing a bed and breakfast in an area zoned R-2—
which specifically permits bed and breakfasts—is inconsistent with Moab’s general plan.” Id.

The same reasoning applies here. The City Code specifically allows accessory apartments in the
R1.8(S) zoning district, and it also specifically permits Family Group Day Care facilities as
conditional uses in residences. Nowhere does the Code prohibit a property owner from
establishing these two uses concurrently. By way of analogy, it is difficult to see how placing a
Family Group Day Care in a location the City Code permits is inconsistent with the character of
the neighborhood.

                       3.         Secondary and Incidental

The City further argues that allowing the Family Group Day Care in addition to the accessory
apartment would violate the “secondary and incidental” clause in the “Purpose and Intent”
section of the City’s Home Occupation ordinance. The provision, in whole, provides:

           14.41.010. Purpose and Intent
           To encourage the majority of business activities to be conducted in appropriate
           commercial zones. Business activities may be conducted within a residence on a
           limited basis if such activities comply with standards of this Section. All home
           occupations shall be secondary and incidental to the residential use. The use
           should be conducted so that neighbors, under normal conditions, would not be
           aware of its existence. Home occupations are a temporary privilege which can be
           revoked if disruption of the residential neighborhood occurs.

PROVO CITY CODE § 14.41.010.

The City argues that the Frandsens’ proposed configuration creates a situation in which the
Family Group Day Care will operate in a manner that is not secondary and incidental to the
residential use of the property and that it may deny the permit on this basis. The Frandsens, on
the other hand, provide a detailed analysis of why, in their opinion, the Family Group Day Care,
as proposed, satisfies the “secondary and incidental” provision. Ultimately, this question is
irrelevant because the operative provisions of the City Code allow the Family Group Day Care.


Advisory Opinion – Russell & Maraly Frandsen
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 25, 2018      Page 6 of 8
The Utah Supreme Court has explained the role of a “Purpose and Intent” section of an
ordinance. In Price Development Co. v. Orem City, the court “referred to a statement of
legislative purpose as a ‘preamble’ to the operative provisions of a [law].” 2000 UT 26, ¶ 23. The
court explained that “a preamble is nothing more than a statement of policy which confers no
substantive rights.” Id. As such, the court explained, “purpose and intent” provisions “provide
guidance to the reader as to how the act should be enforced and interpreted, but they are not a
substantive part of the statute.” Id. Accordingly, these provisions “may be used to clarify
ambiguities, but they do not create rights that are not found within the statute, nor do they limit
those actually given by the legislation.” Id.

In the present case, since the operative language of the Provo City Code plainly allows a Family
Group Day Care as a conditional use in a residence, there is no need to look to the “purpose and
intent” provision for clarification. The proposed use is inherently “secondary and incidental” if it
complies with substantive code requirements.

II.        The City Must Clearly Articulate the Parking Requirement and Approve a Plan that
           Complies with that Requirement

Finally, the City contends that the Frandsens have not been able to demonstrate compliance with
various aspects of the City Code and conflicts that multiple uses of the property create. This is a
valid concern. State law provides that the City “is bound by the terms and standards of applicable
land use regulations and shall comply with mandatory provisions of those regulations.” UTAH
CODE § 10-9a-509(2). The City must reject the proposal if it cannot satisfy a stated parking
standard or some other articulated code requirement.

It appears, however, that this issue has not been fully addressed. In the materials submitted the
parties advance arguments regarding the extent to which the Frandsens’ parking and pickup/drop
off proposal complies with City Code requirements. It appears that the City didn’t take a clear
position on compliance until the appeal stage of the application process.

To that point, the Frandsens argued that the Code doesn’t require any more than five off-street
parking spaces for all proposed uses. They further asserted they had presented a plan to comply
with this requirement. The City, in its March 15, 2018 Board of Adjustment Staff Report,
contends that, under a “most comparable use” analysis5, the Frandsens would need four spaces
for the single-family home and accessory apartment, and an additional three spaces for the
Family Group Day Care. This 7-stall analysis assumes the preschool will have one outside
employee and will serve 12 students. It does not appear the City has given the Frandsens an
opportunity to present a compliant proposal in light of this parking analysis.

In light of the conclusion that the City may not deny the conditional use for reasons discussed
above, the City must work with the Frandsens to find a parking configuration that reasonably
complies with City Code requirements.

5
  The City indicates that a Family Group Day Care is a “use not specified” in the parking ordinance. For such
situations, the City Code indicates that “[t]he parking requirements for land uses which are not specified…shall be
determined by the Community Development Director. Said determination shall be based upon the requirements for
the most comparable use specified [in the Code].” PROVO CITY CODE § 14.37.070.
Advisory Opinion – Russell & Maraly Frandsen
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 25, 2018      Page 7 of 8
Up until March 15, it appears that the City’s primary concerns regarding parking and
pickup/drop off had involved compliance with AASHTO6 design standards. It does not appear,
however, that the Code requires compliance with AASHTO standards in this type of situation.
Consequently, the City may not require compliance with unreferenced, third-party design
standards. Moreover, the City should exercise any discretion afforded them by the City Code to
reasonably allow the property owner’s desired use. See Patterson v. Utah County Bd. of
Adjustment, 893 P.2d 602, 606 (Utah Ct. App. 1995). It would be improper for the City to use the
parking and pickup/drop off plan as a means to effectually prohibit establishment of the
otherwise allowed use.

                                                 CONCLUSION
Provo City improperly denied the Frandsens’ conditional use permit. The City Code plainly
allows a residence to concurrently operate both a legal accessory apartment and a Family Group
Day Care, in accordance with applicable standards and requirements. The City has not presented
evidence that reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed Family Group Day Care
cannot be substantially mitigated through reasonable conditions.

In light of this conclusion, the City must specifically identify the parking standard that will apply
to the Frandsens’ proposal and approve a reasonable pickup/drop off plan that complies with the
plain requirements of the City’s parking ordinance.



Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




6
    This acronym stands for the “American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials”.
Advisory Opinion – Russell & Maraly Frandsen
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 25, 2018      Page 8 of 8
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                      Amanda Ercanbrack, Recorder
                      Provo City
                      351 West Center Street
                      Provo, UT, 84061

On this ___________ Day of _______, 2018, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
