                     Advisory Opinion #129
                 Parties: Gordon Miner and the Timpanogos Special Service District
                                             Issued: July 31, 2013

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                        A: Impact Fees Act

Impact fee analysis should follow the guidelines of the Impact Fees Act, and
determine the fair allocation of capital costs that should be borne by new
development. The Act does not endorse or prohibit any valuation methodology,
and any acceptable method of valuing capital facilities may be used, as long as
the analysis is properly followed to achieve a fair result. Impact fees may not be
used to correct deficiencies, but they may be used to fund new construction to the
extent needed to serve new development. A local political subdivision has
discretion to select an impact fee service area, which may include its entire
jurisdiction.




                                                DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each
Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was
prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes
or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide
general guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be
considered legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current
laws.




                     The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                                  (801) 530-6391
                     Utah Department of Commerce                                                 1-877-882-4662
                     PO Box 146702                                                           Fax: (801) 530-6338
                     160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                     www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                     Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                         propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   GREG BELL
Lieutenant Governor



                                         ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:               Gordon L. Miner

      Local Government Entity:                     Timpanogos Special Service District

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:         Gordon L. Miner

      Type of Property:                            Residence

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:               July 31, 2013

      Opinion Authored By:                         Elliot R. Lawrence
                                                   Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                   Issues
      Do a special service district’s wastewater impact fees impose an equitable share of the capital
      costs of public infrastructure on new development?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
      The objective of impact fee analysis is to determine the fair share of capital costs that should be
      borne by new development.

      A local political subdivision has discretion to select a service area, which may include the
      subdivision’s entire jurisdiction.

      Although individual usage may vary, all properties derive equal benefit from a community-wide
      utility, so all similarly-situated properties may be charged the same impact fee.

      Multiple acceptable valuation methodologies may be used as part of the impact fee analysis. The
      Impact Fees Act did not dictate a valuation method.

      Impact fees may not be used to cure pre-existing deficiencies in public facilities, but fees may be
      used help fund new or expanded facilities which are necessary due to new development.
                                                               Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Gordon L. Miner on November 8, 2012. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Garland J. Mayne, District Manager for the
Timpanogos Special Service District, at PO Box 923, American Fork, Utah 84003. The return
receipt was signed and delivered on December 4, 2012, indicating it had been received by the
District.

                                                               Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Gordon L. Miner,
                 received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, November 8, 2012.
     2.          Additional materials submitted by Mr. Miner, received December 10, 2012, and
                 March 18, 2013.

                                                               Background
In 2012, Gordon L. Miner received a building permit to construct a new home on the eastern
edge of Lehi. The Timpanogos Special Service District (“District”) provides wastewater services
to residents of Lehi, along with other communities in northern Utah County. 1 The District
required Mr. Miner to pay wasterwater impact fees in order to obtain final approval for the new
home. 2 The fees were adopted in 2009, and were based on the District’s Capital Facilities Plan
and an Impact Fee Analysis prepared by Lewis Young Roberston & Burningham, Inc., a private
consulting firm.




1
  The District serves Alpine, American Fork, Cedar Hills, Highland, Lehi, Pleasant Grove, Saratoga Springs, and
portions of Eagle Mountain, Vineyard, and the South Valley Sewer District.
2
  Lehi City also charges impact fees. Mr. Miner requested an Advisory Opinion on the City’s fees, which will be
prepared separately.

Advisory Opinion – Miner/Timpanogos Special Service District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2013 Page 2 of 9
Mr. Miner objects to the District’s impact fees, and requested this Advisory Opinion to evaluate
their legality. 3 He argues that the fees were not correctly adopted, because the District did not
properly follow the analysis of the Utah Impact Fees Act. 4 The District submitted nothing in
response.

                                                               Analysis
           Impact Fees Are Intended to Determine the Fair Share of Capital Costs That
           Should be Borne by New Development.

           A. Impact Fees Which Are Properly Adopted Are Presumed Valid.

Impact fees are one-time charges imposed as conditions of development approval which are
meant to offset or mitigate the impact the new development would have on public facilities. See
UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36a-102(8)(a). Special service districts that provide public utilities (such
as the Timpanogos Special Service District) may charge impact fees, along with cities and
counties. See id., § 11-36a-102(12)(a). 5 There is no dispute that the District imposes sewer
impact fees on new development within its boundaries, which include the City of Lehi. Mr
Miner’s new home was thus subject to the District’s jurisdiction, and its wastewater impact fees.

An impact fee adopted following the procedures and requirements of the Impact Fees Act is
presumed to be valid. “[A] presumption of constitutionality attaches to the legislative decisions
of municipalities when they establish impact fees.” Home Builders Association of Utah v. City of
North Logan, 1999 UT 63, ¶ 9, 983 P.2d 561, 564 (citing Banberry Development Corp. v. South
Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899, 904 (Utah 1981). That presumption, however, may be rebutted if the
impact fees “require newly developed properties to bear more than their equitable share of the
capital costs in relation to benefits conferred.” Id.

If a developer challenges the reasonableness of an impact fee, the local political subdivision
imposing the fee “must first disclose the basis of its calculations . . ..” North Logan, 1999 UT
63, ¶ 8, 983 P.2d at 563 (citations and alterations omitted). When that information is disclosed,
“[t]he burden then falls upon the challenger to show [that the fee fails] to comply with the
constitutional standard of reasonableness.” Id. 1999 UT 63, ¶ 8, 983 P.2d at 563-64. The
District provided a copy the Impact Fee Analysis that Lewis Young Robertson & Burningham,
Inc. prepared in 2009. That analysis, required by the Impact Fees Act, was the basis of the
wastewater impact fee charged to Mr. Miner.

Mr. Miner presented four arguments that the wastewater impact fee is not reasonable: (1) His
home does not benefit from the new improvements to the District’s system, because of its
geographic location; (2) His home has only limited impact on the overall sewer system; (3) The

3
  It is believed that Mr. Miner paid the fees “under protest,” and has completed his home.
4
  UTAH CODE ANN. §§ 11-36a-101 to -705.
5
  See also id., § 11-36a-201. Special service districts and local districts are listed as “local political subdivisions”
along with cities and counties. These districts have as much authority to charge impact fees covering the utility
services they provide as cities and counties.

Advisory Opinion – Miner/Timpanogos Special Service District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2013 Page 3 of 9
analysis impermissibly uses replacement cost of the existing facilities as the basis for the impact
fee; and (4) The District is impermissibly using impact fees to “cure existing deficiencies.”

           B. Designating the Entire District as the Service Area is Reasonable.

The first of Mr. Miner’s objections stems from the location of his home, which is near the eastern
edge of Lehi. He argues that the District’s Impact Fee Analysis improperly treated the entire
District as the relevant service area, allocating the burden of new improvements throughout the
District on all new development. Mr. Miner argues that most, if not all, improvements required
due to new development are located in other areas of the District, and it is inequitable and
unreasonable to impose a burden on his new home, located in an area that does not require as
much new infrastructure.

Under the Impact Fees Act, local entities must designate at least one service area for impact fees,
and may charge different impact fees in different areas. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36a-402(1). 6
The number of service areas within each jurisdiction is left to the discretion of the local
subdivisions. The number of service areas within each jurisdiction is left to the discretion of the
local subdivisions. “[A local government] may have a myriad of competing choices before it,
[and] the selection of one method . . . in preference to another is entirely within the discretion of
the [entity,] and does not, in and of itself, constitute an abuse of discretion.” Bradley v. Payson
City, 2003 UT 16, ¶ 24, 70 P.3d 47, 54. 7 The District chose a single service area for its
Wastewater Impact Fee, which covers the entire District service area. The Wastewater Impact
Fee Analysis notes that there are no geographic areas within the District that demand higher
levels of service or unique infrastructure needs.

Mr. Miner maintains that this decision was flawed, because the District’s gravity-drained sewer
system has different impacts in different areas of the District. He does not show, however, that
the District’s choice of a single service area was an abuse of discretion, nor has he proposed any
alternative plan for service areas. Furthermore, he has not shown that his impact fee would have
been substantially different if the District had chosen to designate more than one service area.
Simply expressing an opinion on the choice of service area does not prove that the District
should have divided its jurisdiction into different service areas subject to different impact fees. 8




6
  The District’s Wastewater Impact Fee was adopted in 2009 under the previous codification of the Impact Fees Act
(UTAH CODE ANN. §§ 11-36-101 to -501). In 2011, the Utah Legislature reorganized the Impact Fees Act, by
repealing Chapter 11-36, and enacting a new Chapter, 11-36a. Nevertheless, most of the provisions of the former
Act were preserved in the reorganization, including a local entity’s authority to designate one or more service areas.
See UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36-202(2)(a) (2009) (repealed 2011). Since the 2011 recodification preserved most of
the relevant terms and requirements of the prior language, this Opinion will cite to the current language, except
when designated.
7
  See also Price Development Co. v. Orem City, 2000 UT 26, ¶ 19, 995 P.2d 1237, 1245 (Local governments have
broad latitude to decide how to perform their functions and address local needs).
8
  Mr. Miner also does not explain how his impact fee would be lower if the District had decided to create more than
one service area.

Advisory Opinion – Miner/Timpanogos Special Service District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2013 Page 4 of 9
In short, Mr. Miner has not shown that the District’s choice of service area was an abuse of
discretion, and so he cannot claim that the impact fee was unreasonable on that basis. 9

           C. It is Permissible to Treat all Similar Development as Having the Same Impact.

The second point to be evaluated is Mr. Miner’s assertion that he is entitled to a reduced impact
fee because he claims his home has less impact than new homes in other areas served by the
District. Essentially, he claims a minimal impact, because his wastewater travels through only
one or two pipes, and does not create a need for new infrastructure. In addition, he apparently
argues that there is no new infrastructure needed in his immediate neighborhood, and so his
impact fee should be reduced accordingly.

Mr. Miner fails to consider, however, that he benefits from the entire system along with everyone
else served by the District. He may only “use” a small portion of the pipe system, but he also
benefits from the water treatment facilities operated by the District. In addition, he benefits
because the entire community’s wastewater is handled and treated in a safe and efficient manner.
This promotes the public health and improves the quality of life for residential and commercial
areas. He has not shown that the District’s impact fee imposes an unfair burden upon him.

The Utah Supreme Court reached the same conclusion in the North Logan decision. “[T]he
central facilities that support water and sewer services would generally confer the same benefits
in every part of the [local subdivision] . . ..” North Logan, 1999 UT 63, ¶ 18, 983 P.2d at 566
(emphasis added, citation omitted).10 In other words, every home receives a similar benefit
from the District’s wastewater system, even though the individual usage of each home may vary.
As long as it is reasonable to conclude that each residence is similarly situated, it is reasonable
and permissible to impose the same impact fee on all such residences. As was addressed in the
preceding section, there is no reason to conclude that Mr. Miner’s use of the wastewater system
is significantly different than any other residence served by the District. It is appropriate for the
District to conclude that each residential use has similar impacts, and so each may be charged the
same impact fee. 11




9
   Mr. Miner’s “service area” argument appears to be a variation on the second point, that the fees imposed on his
new home are disproportionately higher than the home’s impact on the wastewater system.
10
   In North Logan, the builder’s association argued that the city’s park impact fees were unfair to new development,
because the new parks acquired using impact fees would primarily benefit existing residences. The Court accepted
the premise that the benefits of parks or flood control may be “measurably different” depending upon the type or
location of the facilities. However, the Court concluded that the builders failed to show that the parks fee imposed a
disproportionate burden on new development.
11
   This does not necessarily mean that the same fee may be charged to all new development. It may be reasonable to
distinguish between different uses, such as commercial and residential, and formulate an impact fee for each. As
long as the different classes of uses are rationally based and reasonably defined, and the impact fees justified by
proper analysis, the fees should be considered reasonable and constitutionally valid.

Advisory Opinion – Miner/Timpanogos Special Service District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2013 Page 5 of 9
           D. Mr. Miner Has Not Shown that the District’s Use of The System’s Depreciated
              Replacement Value Was Unacceptable.

Because the ultimate goal of impact fee analysis is fairness and equitable sharing of the costs to
build and maintain public infrastructure, any acceptable valuation method could have been used
determine the value of existing facilities. 12 Mr. Miner cites to § 11-36a-202(1)(a)(iii) of the
Impact Fees Act, which states that an impact fee may not “recoup more than the . . . costs
actually incurred for excess capacity in an existing system improvement.” This language,
however, was added in 2011, when the Act was reorganized and recodified. That language was
not in effect in 2009, when the District adopted its wastewater impact fee, and so it cannot be
applied to the District’s fee. 13

In 2009, the Impact Fees Act required a written analysis of each impact fee, including an
estimate of the proportionate share of the costs of existing capacity that would be recouped. See
UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36-201(5)(a)(iv)(A) (repealed 2011). The Impact Fees Act did not dictate
any particular valuation method. 14      The term “cost” was not defined. Using depreciated
replacement value to measure the cost of excess capacity to system improvements may be as
appropriate as any other accepted valuation method. 15

The object of impact fee analysis is to fairly allocate the relative burdens for funding capital
improvements imposed on both new and existing development. A valid impact fee imposes a fair
share of the costs to build public infrastructure on new development and considers contributions
made by existing development:

           [T]o comply with the standard of reasonableness, a . . . fee related to services like
           water or sewer must not require newly developed properties to bear more than
           their equitable share of the capital costs in relation to benefits conferred.

           To determine the equitable share of the capital costs to be borne by newly
           developed properties, a [local political subdivision] should determine the relative
           burdens previously borne and yet to be borne by those properties in comparison
           with other properties in the [locality] as a whole; the fee in question should not

12
   This does not mean that the valuation method used is not important. The methodology used is a critical
component of impact fee analysis.
13
   “A provision of the Utah Code is not retroactive, unless the provision is expressly declared to be retroactive.”
UTAH CODE ANN. § 68-3-3.
14
   There are several accepted methodologies to estimating the value of a facility’s excess capacity, including original
cost, original cost plus interest, replacement value, and depreciated replacement value. See e.g., “Wastewater Impact
Fees: A Recent Ruling With National Implications,” C.W. Corssmit, et al., 2002 (available at
http://www.grimshawharring.com/wp-content/uploads/Wastewater_Impact_Fees.pdf ).
15
   A distinction exists between “depreciated replacement value” and “replacement value” based on present costs. As
discussed below, a previous Advisory Opinion by this Office held that the impact fee act prohibited impact fees to
recoup the present replacement value of existing facilities. Whether using impact fees to recoup depreciated
replacement value was not determined by that decision. It is likewise not determined here, and remains an open
question.

Advisory Opinion – Miner/Timpanogos Special Service District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2013 Page 6 of 9
           exceed the amount sufficient to equalize the relative burdens of newly developed
           and other properties.

Banberry, 631 P.2d at 903 (emphasis added). In other words, an “equitable share” includes
equalizing the past contributions from existing properties and the expected contributions from
new development. To achieve this fairness between existing property owners and new
development, it is necessary to consider the costs of capital facilities, so that the contributions
made at different times may be compared and the costs allocated proportionately. The so-called
“Banberry Factors,” which form the heart of impact fee analysis, is intended to accomplish this
goal. “The ‘equitable share’ standard is the ultimate legal standard that municipalities are
obligated to meet. Consideration of the Banberry factors is a means to that end, but is not the
end itself.” Home Builders Association of Utah v. American Fork, 1999 UT 7, ¶ 20, 973 P.2d
425, 430.

The Banberry decision listed seven important considerations to help ensure that impact fees are
reasonable and proportionate. The seven factors were eventually codified into the Impact Fees
Act. 16 The first of the seven factors is “the cost of existing capital facilities.” Id., 631 P.2d at
904. The seventh is “the time-price differential inherent in fair comparisons of amounts paid at
different times.” Id. 17 Thus, impact fee analysis should include a thorough financial analysis of
the costs of capital improvements over time, as well as the contributions made by existing
development. One method to compare the contributions made by different property owners at
different times and equitably share the cost of facilities may use the improvements’ depreciated
replacement value. 18 The objective is an impact fee that fairly and equitably allocates facility
costs. Multiple methods that do so may be permissible by the Act.

Mr. Miner has not indicated that the values used by the District in its Impact Fee Analysis were
inaccurate. His objection stems from using the depreciated replacement value of the system as
part of the basis for the wastewater impact fee. He has not shown that this methodology is not
acceptable or appropriate, nor has he shown that the impact fee would have been substantially
different using a different valuation approach. As has been discussed, using depreciated
replacement value as part of a valid analysis may be appropriate. Mr. Miner has not met his
burden to invalidate the use of that method. 19
16
   UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36a-304(2).
17
   The other five factors are: The manner of financing existing capital facilities; the relative extent to which the
newly developed properties and other properties have already contributed to the costs; the relative extent to which
the newly developed properties and other properties will contribute to the cost of facilities in the future; the extent to
which the newly developed properties are entitled to a credit for contributions; and extraordinary costs to service
newly developed properties. See Banberry, 631 P.2d at 904.
18
   In an Advisory Opinion issued on June 30, 2009, the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman determined that
using replacement costs of capital facilities was not appropriate, and would result in new properties paying a
disproportionate share for capital facilities. However, the fees considered in that Opinion were based on the
replacement value of facilities, evidently without adjustments for depreciation and the time-price differential, as
required by the Impact Fees Act. Depreciated replacement value therefore was not considered in that Opinion, and
may be valid in an analysis which equalizes the relative burdens of newly developed and existing properties.
19
   This Opinion does not determine whether the depreciated replacement value method is appropriate in this matter,
nor does it interpret the new language of § 11-36a-202(1)(a)(iii), which would apply to impact fees adopted after
2011.

Advisory Opinion – Miner/Timpanogos Special Service District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2013 Page 7 of 9
           E. An Impact Fee May Include Estimated Costs for New Facilities Due to Growth.

Mr. Miner’s final objection to the District’s wastewater impact fee misapplies the prohibition on
using impact fee to cure deficiencies. He has not shown that the new facilities proposed in the
District’s Impact Fee Analysis are intended to correct pre-existing facility problems or to expand
the District’s level of service. Mr. Miner cites § 11-36a-202(1)(a)(i) of the current Impact Fees
Act, which prohibits impact fees that “cure deficiencies in a public facility serving existing
development.” As has been discussed, the current language of the Act was adopted in 2011, after
the District had adopted its impact fee. The same language was in effect in 2009, and so the
District was subject to the prohibition on curing deficiencies. 20 However, the new facilities
identified by the District do not “cure deficiencies,” but are necessary to maintain the same level
of service for all properties in the District.

In addition to the cost of existing capacity, impact fees may also be based on the costs needed for
new infrastructure to serve new development. New facilities are sometimes needed to maintain
the same level of service as new development is built in a community, and existing facilities may
need to be upgraded or expanded. Impact fees may provide some of the funding for these new
facilities. The same analysis from the Impact Fees Act applies, to ensure that the fees are fair and
equitable.

Impact fees may not be used, however, to raise the level of service or
“cure deficiencies” in existing infrastructure. For example, if a city’s water tank does not have
enough capacity to provide adequate water service, that would be a deficiency in the facility, and
impact fees could not be imposed to increase the tank’s capacity. On the other hand, if additional
capacity were needed because of new growth, impact fees could be used to enlarge (or replace)
the tank. 21 In a similar manner, impact fees cannot be used to fund facilities to raise a level of
service, but they may be used towards facilities needed to maintain the existing level of
service. 22

In its Capital Facilities Plan, the District identified eight projects necessary to accommodate
future growth. 23 These projects included upgrades to existing facilities, and improvements
required by new government regulation. The capital facilities plan determined how much of
these upgrades were due to new growth, which was expressed as a percentage. The Impact Fee
Analysis used that data to calculate the impact fee. Mr. Miner’s objection misapplies the
prohibition against curing deficiencies. He argues that any upgrade, expansion, or replacement
of existing facilities is a “deficiency” that cannot be “cured” through impact fees. This overlooks
the District’s statements that the new projects have been deemed necessary, at least in part,

20
   See UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36-202(5)(a) (repealed 2011). The language was retained in the 2011 recodification.
21
   This does not mean that impact fees may be the sole source of funding, but that it is permissible to use the cost of
the necessary expansion when calculating the appropriate impact fee.
22
   In 2013, the Utah Legislature added a provision to the Impact Fees Act that allows an impact fee to be based on a
proposed level of service, if the local political subdivision shows that it has other funding in place to acquire the
needed facilities. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36a-302(1)(c).
23
   A capital facilities plan identifies existing and needed infrastructure, and is a required part of impact fees analysis.

Advisory Opinion – Miner/Timpanogos Special Service District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2013 Page 8 of 9
because of new growth. Mr. Miner has not shown that the District’s Capital Facilities Plan is
inaccurate, and so it must be considered valid. Since impact fees may be used towards new
facilities necessary to accommodate new growth, and because there is no reason to question the
District’s Capital Facilities Plan; this Opinion concludes that the wastewater impact fee does not
violate the prohibition against curing deficiencies in the District’s facilities.

                                                               Conclusion
Impact fees are intended to offset the impacts on public facilities caused by new development.
An impact fee may be adopted by following the analysis required by the Impact Fees Act.
Compliance with that Act grants a presumption of validity on the fees, which may be overcome
by showing that the fee requires new development to bear an inequitable share of capital costs.
The overall objective of impact fee analysis is to determine the equitable share of capital costs
that should be imposed on new development, to equalize the relative burdens of existing property
owners and new development.

A local political subdivision must designate a service area as part of an impact fee analysis, but
each subdivision has discretion to choose the size of the area, which may encompass the
subdivision’s entire jurisdiction. The service area chosen is presumed valid, unless it is shown to
be an abuse of discretion.

All similarly-situated properties derive equal benefit from community-wide systems such as
water or sewer facilities. Even though each individual property’s use may vary, it is permissible
to treat all similarly-situated properties equally, and impose the same impact fee. A local
political subdivision may be justified in distinguishing between different types or different
intensities of property uses, as long as the distinctions are rationally based and reasonable.

The analysis which calculates an impact fee is more critical than the valuation methodology used
to measure the cost or value of public infrastructure. The Act does not dictate any valuation
method, and so any acceptable methodology may be used. The objective is to determine the
equitable share of the capital costs, which may be achieved through a valid analysis using the
“Banberry Factors” of the Impact Fees Act.

Impact fees may not be used to cure deficiencies in public facilities, but they may be used to help
fund new facilities needed because of new growth. A capital facilities plan that identifies which
new or expanded facilities are needed due to growth is presumed valid, and that information may
be used to calculate an appropriate impact fee.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



Advisory Opinion – Miner/Timpanogos Special Service District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2013 Page 9 of 9
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

       Garland J. Mayne, District Manager
       Timpanogos Special Service District
       PO Box 923
       American Fork, Utah 84003

On this ___________ Day of July, 2013, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
