                    Advisory Opinion # 157
                 Parties: Southern Utah Homebuilder’s Association and Dixie Power
                                             Issued: April 30, 2015

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                                Impact Fees

The Impact Fees Act does not apply to charges imposed by a public utility. Local
government bodies and private water suppliers are the only entities subject to the
Act, and a utility company, even a cooperative, is not required to comply. Public
utilities are governed and regulated by the Public Service Commission, and any
fees or rules imposed by a utility must be just and reasonable.




                                                DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each
Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was
prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes
or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide
general guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be
considered legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current
laws.




                     The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                                  (801) 530-6391
                     Utah Department of Commerce                                                 1-877-882-4662
                     PO Box 146702                                                           Fax: (801) 530-6338
                     160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                     www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                     Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                         propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
    Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 SPENCER J. COX           FRANCINE A. GIANI       BRENT N. BATEMAN
Lieutenant Governor       Executive Director      Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                               ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                   Southern Utah Home Builders

      Local Entity:                                    Dixie Power

      Property Owner:                                  Various Owners and Developers

      Type of Property:                                New Property Development

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                   April 30, 2015

      Opinion Authored By:                             Elliot R. Lawrence
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       Issues
      Is Dixie Power charging an impact fee within the meaning of the Impact Fees Act?

      Is Dixie Power required to comply with the Impact Fees Act?

      If a local government requires new development to receive electrical service from Dixie Power,
      or if Dixie Power is the only provider of electrical service, do the fees charged become subject to
      the Impact Fees Act and provisions of the Land Use, Development, and Management Act?

      May Dixie Power require installation of equipment and facilities that will serve more than one
      development?

      May Dixie Power require that all new electrical equipment and facilities be installed by Dixie
      Power employees?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
      The Impact Fees Act does not apply to charges imposed by a public utility company. Only local
      governments and private water companies are subject to the Act, and there is no justification to
      extend the statute to include private utility companies within the Act’s jurisdiction. Therefore, a
      utility is not obligated to comply with the Act’s requirements, including preparing a capital
      facilities plan and an impact fee study. In like manner, a public utility is not obligated to conduct
a “rough proportionality” analysis, because its fees and equipment requirements are not
exactions. A public utility does not grant development approval, and it does not require
dedication of private property for public purposes.

Public utilities are governed and regulated by the Public Service Commission, and any fees or
rules imposed must be just and reasonable. The Public Service Commission has jurisdiction to
review a utility’s charges and other regulations to determine if they are just and reasonable,
including Dixie Power’s requirement that only its employees may install electrical equipment.


                                                Review
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Jonathon W. Call, on behalf of the
Southern Utah Home Builders Association, on March 4, 2015. A copy of that request was sent
via certified mail to the Dixie Power at 145 West Brigham Road, St. George, Utah. According to
the return receipt, Dixie Power received the Request on March 6, 2015.

                                               Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Jonathon W. Call,
                 on behalf of the Southern Utah Home Builders Association, received by the Office of
                 the Property Rights Ombudsman on March 4, 2015
     2.          Response from David Crabtree, counsel for the Dixie Power (Deseret Power),
                 received on March 20, 2015.
     3.          Revised Request submitted by Jonathon W. Call, received April 1, 2015.

                                             Background




Advisory Opinion – SUHBA/Dixie Power
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2015 Page 2 of 9
The Southern Utah Home Builders Association (“Association”) represents members of the
professional building industry throughout Southern Utah.1 The Association is concerned about
charges imposed by the Dixie Power Company, a rural electric cooperative providing power
service to areas of Iron and Washington Counties, as well as communities in the northwest corner
of Arizona. Specifically, the Association questions whether Dixie Power should comply with the
requirements of the Impact Fees Act, including preparation of a capital facilities plan, an impact
fee analysis, and notice to interested entities.2 In addition, the Association contends that Dixie
Power requires installation of more electrical equipment than is needed to serve new
development; and that the power company’s demand that all equipment be installed by its
employees is unreasonable.

Dixie Power was formed in the 1970s, through the merger of three smaller electric cooperatives
in Southwest Utah and Northwest Arizona. The cooperatives were originally established in the
1940s, under the Rural Electrification Act, a program administered by the United States
Department of Agriculture. Dixie Power is privately owned and financned, and, like all private
utilities, is regulated by the Utah Public Service Commission.

The power company states that its charges, which it refers to as “impact fees” are charged to any
property receiving new electrical service, not just new development. Dixie Power states that such
fees are not impact fees within the meaning of the Impact Fees Act, but are charges routinely
assessed by power companies to offset the costs of additional equipment needed to serve new
customers. The company also states that its fees have been approved by the Public Service
Commission, as provided in the Utah Code.3 Dixie Power disputes that its charges are impact
fees, and notes that it is not a political body or a private water company, and does not grant
approval for development projects.

                                                     Analysis
     I. Dixie Power is Not Obligated to Comply With the Impact Fees Act.

           A. Dixie Power is Neither a Local Political Subdivision Nor a Private Water Supplier

Dixie Power is not a local political subdivision, a local district, a special service district, or a
private water supplier, and so is not subject to the requirements of the Impact Fees Act. The Utah
Legislature enacted the Impact Fees Act to govern development impact fees charged by local
entities.4 The Act only applies to “local political subdivisions” and “private entities.” 5 A “local
1
  The Association represents builders in Kane, San Juan, and Washington Counties. Its membership includes
builders, installers, and financial professionals. See Southern Utah Home Builders Association Website,
www.suhba.com.
2
  The Association argues that Dixie Power (and other utility companies) should be subject to the Impact Fees Act,
because the fees are being imposed on new development.
3
  Dixie Power cites § 54-7-12 of the Utah Code, which requires approval for any type of rate increase, which
includes rates, tolls, and “any other charge generally applicable to a public utility’s rate tariffs.” UTAH CODE ANN. §
54-7-12(1)(a)(i)(E).
4
  The Impact Fees Act is found in §§ 11-36a-101 to -705 of the Utah Code.
5
  “A local political subdivision and private entity may establish impact fees only for those public facilities defined in
Section 11-36a-102.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36a-201(2).

Advisory Opinion – SUHBA/Dixie Power
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2015 Page 3 of 9
political subdivision” is defined as “a county, municipality, a local district under Title 17B,
Limited Purpose Local Government Entities – Local Districts, or a special service district under
Title 17D, Chapter 1, Special Service District Act.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36a-102(12)(a).6
Dixie Power is clearly not a county or a municipality.

Local districts provide local services, and are created by voters residing in the area to be served,
after hearings and studies conducted by local government legislative bodies.7 Although a local
district is authorized to provide several types of municipal-type services, electrical service is not
one of them.8 Dixie Power was not created through the process established in Title 17B, and it
provides electrical service to its customers.9

Along the same lines, Dixie Power is also not a special service district created by local
governments to provide municipal services.10 Like local districts, a special service district is not
authorized to provide electrical service.11 Since Dixie Power provides electrical service, and was
not created through the process established under Title 17D, it cannot be a special service
district.

Finally, a “private entity” is defined as a privately owned entity that provides water service. See
id., § 11-36a-102(13). Dixie Power does not provide water service, and so cannot be considered
a “private entity” under the definition of the Impact Fees Act. Since Dixie Power is not a county,
city, local district, special service district, or a private entity providing water services, it is not
required to comply with the provisions of the Impact Fees Act.12

           B. Dixie Power is Not Charging Impact Fees Within the Meaning of the Impact Fees Act.

Dixie Power is also not subject to the Impact Fees Act, even though it refers to its charges as
“impact fees,” because its charges are not impact fees within the meaning of the Act. The
obligations of the Impact Fees Act arise because an entity subject to that Act imposes a fee that
meets the definition of an “impact fee.” It is the nature of the fee, not its title, which subjects it to
the Act.13


6
   School districts are expressly exempted from the definition of “local political subdivision.” Id., § 11-36a-
102(12)(b).
7
  See id., §§ 17B-1-203, 17B-1-210.
8
   Id., § 17B-1-202(1). A local district may acquire and maintain a right-of-way for an electrical transmission line,
and may also provide funding to relocate overhead lines to underground facilities, but it may not provide electrical
service.
9
  Dixie Power is a cooperative owned by its subscribers, who select a board of directors. See Dixie Power Website,
www.dixiepower.com.
10
    See UTAH CODE ANN. § 17D-1-208 (Special service district created by legislative body of city or county, after
hearings and studies).
11
    Id., § 17D-1-201. Special service districts may be created to provide street lighting, but not electrical service.
12
    Cities with municipal power companies may charge impact fees, which are governed by the Impact Fees Act. See
id., § 11-36a-102(16) (“public facilities” include municipal power facilities).
13
    “A fee that meets the definition of impact fee under Section 11-36a-102 is an impact fee subject to this chapter
[Chapter 11-36a], regardless of what term the local political subdivision or private entity uses to refer to the fee.”
UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36a-204(1).

Advisory Opinion – SUHBA/Dixie Power
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2015 Page 4 of 9
The fee charged by Dixie Power does not meet the definition of an impact fee, because it is not
charged as a condition of development approval. “‘Impact fee’ means a payment of money
imposed upon new development activity as a condition of approval to mitigate the impact of the
new development on public infrastructure.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36a-102(8)(a)(emphasis
added). Dixie Power’s fees are a payment of money, and, according to the company, are intended
offset the cost of installing additional equipment needed as the number of customers increases.
However, the fees are not required as a condition of development approval, and so are outside of
the Impact Fees Act.

An analogous situation was considered by the Utah Supreme Court in Washington County Water
Conservancy District v. Keystone Conversions, LLC (“Keystone”).14 In that case, the court
concluded that a “water availability fee” charged by a water conservancy district was not an
impact fee subject to the requirements of the Impact Fees Act. The court explained that the
district’s authorization that was granted with payment of the availability fee did not constitute
“development approval,” and so the fee was not an “impact fee.”15

           Although a developer would need the Water District’s written approval if he or
           she desires to connect to the Water District’s system, a developer does not require
           the Water District’s approval in order to build on its own property. Consequently,
           any approval given by the Water District does not actually “authorize the
           commencement of development activity.”

Keystone, 2004 UT 84, ¶ 26, 103 P.3d at 693. Like the availability fee in Keystone, the charges
required by Dixie Power are not imposed as a condition of development approval, and hence, are
not subject to the Impact Fees Act.16

           C. Dixie Power is Not Subject to the Impact Fees Act Because Connection to Their
              Services is Required for a New Development

Dixie Power’s fees do not become impact fees simply because connection to electrical service is
necessary for a new development. The language of the Impact Fees Act cannot be interpreted to
include private companies providing necessary utility services to new development. The Act, like
all statutes, must be interpreted to carry out the Legislature’s intent.

           When interpreting statutes, [the] primary objective is to give effect to the
           legislature’s intent. To discern legislative intent, . . . look first to the statute’s


14
   2004 UT 84; 103 P.3d 686.
15
   Id., 2004 UT 84, ¶ 25; 103 P.3d at 693. The water availability fee was charged by the Washington County Water
Conservancy District when an applicant requested permission to install a secondary water system served by the
Water District. The authorization provided only approval that a water system could be installed (which would
receive service from the Water District), and was not approval for any development. See id., 2004 UT 84, ¶¶ 5-6,
103 P.3d at 688-89.
16
   “Development approval” means approval from a local government to begin construction or other development
activity, authorization from public water supplier to deliver water, or authorization from a sewer authority. UTAH
CODE ANN. § 11-36a-102(4).

Advisory Opinion – SUHBA/Dixie Power
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2015 Page 5 of 9
           plain language. In doing so, . . . presume that the legislature used each word
           advisedly and read each term according to its ordinary and accepted meaning.

Howard Selman, Inc. v. Box Elder County, 2011 UT 18, ¶18, 251 P.3d 804, 807 (citations and
alterations from original omitted). In addition, “omissions in statutory language should be taken
note of and given effect.” Biddle v. Washington Terrace, 1999 UT 110, ¶ 14, 993 P.2d 875, 879
(citation omitted).

The plain language of the Impact Fees Act indicates that the Utah Legislature did not intend to
subject private entities involved in development approval to the Act’s requirements. As has
already been discussed, only local political subdivisions and private water suppliers are subject
to the Act.17 Furthermore, an “impact fee” is a fee charged as a condition of development
approval. Both of these provisions indicate the intent to limit the Act’s requirements to the
identified entities. If the Legislature had wished to regulate the fees charged by private utility
companies as impact fees, it would have included such language in the Act.18 In the absence of
statutory authority, there is no justification to expand the Impact Fees Act to include private
utility companies, even if those companies are critical to new development approval.19

To conclude, Dixie Power is not an entity which is subject to the Impact Fees Act, and its fees
are not “impact fees” within the meaning of that Act. It is not required to comply with the notice
provisions of the Act, and it is not required to prepare a capital facilities plan or an impact fee
study. Concerns about such charges should be addressed to the utility itself, or through the Public
Service Commission.

     II. Dixie Power’s Fees and Equipment Requirements are not Exactions.

Following a similar analysis, Dixie Power’s fees and equipment requirements are not
development exactions subject to rough proportionality analysis, because Dixie Power is not a
government agency, and it does not grant development approval. “Exactions are conditions
imposed by government entities on developers for the issuance of a building permit or
subdivision plat approval.” B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County (“BAM I”), 2006 UT
2, ¶ 34, 128 P.3d 1161, 1169. Cash payments may be exactions, along with installation of public



17
   The very specific definition of “private entity” in the Impact Fees Act indicates the Legislature’s intent to exclude
other private utilities from the Act’s jurisdiction. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36a-102(13)
18
   See e.g. Kennecott Copper Corp. v. Anderson, 30 Utah 2d 102, 514 P.2d 217 (1973). In Kennecott Copper, the
Utah Supreme Court concluded that the language of the Utah Worker’s Compensation Act did not impose a time
limit on medical expenses arising from an industrial injury. The language did limit wage compensation to no more
than six years, but did not include medical expenses in that limitation. The Court held that since medical expenses
were not expressly included in the statute, the intent of the language was to impose no limit on medical expenses.
Following a similar approach, since utility companies were not named as being subject to the Impact Fees Act, the
Legislature’s intent was to exclude them from the Act.
19
   Another factor supporting this conclusion is a policy that private companies should not be subjected to the
extensive requirements and potential liabilities of the Impact Fees Act without thorough consideration by the
Legislature.

Advisory Opinion – SUHBA/Dixie Power
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2015 Page 6 of 9
infrastructure.20 Local governments may impose exactions as a requirement of development
approval, provided the exactions satisfy “rough proportionality” analysis.21

For the same reasons that it is not subject to the Impact Fees Act, Dixie Power is not required to
comply with rough proportionality analysis. It is not a government agency, and its does not grant
approval of a development project. Even though rough proportionality is required to enforce
rights guaranteed by the State and Federal Constitutions, the cases governing exactions clearly
indicate that rough proportionality analysis is required only when a government agency imposes
an exaction.22 It has already been discussed that Dixie Power’s fees are not imposed as a
condition of approval, and are therefore not exactions subject to rough proportionality analysis.

In like manner, Dixie Power is not obligated to apply the rough proportionality test to the amount
of equipment it requires from new development. The Home Builders Association objects that its
members are required to install equipment capable of serving more properties than that which is
being developed. Essentially, the Home Builders Association argues that each developer should
only be required to install the equipment necessary for a development, and that any excess
capacity or equipment should be Dixie Power’s responsibility.

Construction of public infrastructure may be an exaction, which would be subject to rough
proportionality analysis. As has already been discussed, however, Dixie Power is not a
governmental agency, it does not grant development approval. Furthermore, the required
equipment is not public infrastructure, and the builders are not expected to donate it for a public
use. The Utah Supreme Court noted that an exaction “typically require[s] the permanent
surrender of private property for a public use.” BAM I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 34, 128 P.3d at 1169
(emphasis added). Thus, since the required equipment is not being donated for a public use, the
requirement is not subject to rough proportionality analysis.

     III. Dixie Power’s Regulations Concerning Installation of Equipment are Not Governed
          by the Land Use, Development, and Management Act (LUDMA).

Because Dixie Power is not a local government entity, its rules concerning installation of
equipment are not land use decisions governed by the Land Use, Development, and Management
Act (“LUDMA”). Conditions imposed by land use authorities must comply with LUDMA. A

20
   See B.A.M. I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 34, 128 P.3d at 1169 (quoting Salt Lake County v. Granite School Dist., 808 P.2d
1056, 1058 (Utah 1991)). Impact fees are also a type of exaction. Id.
21
   See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-508 and 17-27a-507. An exaction is valid if 1) there is an “essential link” between
the exaction and a governmental interest; and 2) the exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent to
the impact of the development. Rough proportionality analysis is required not only by the Utah Code, but also by the
State and Federal Constitutions. See B.A.M. I 2006 UT 2, ¶ 31, 128 P.3d at 1168.
22
   Rough proportionality is required to protect the rights found in the “Takings Clauses” of the Federal (U.S. CONST.
amend. V) and the Utah Constitutions (UTAH CONST. Art. I, § 22). The B.A.M. Development case explicitly defines
an exaction as “imposed by government entities.” B.A.M. I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 34, 128 P.3d at 1169. In a subsequent
opinion concerning the same matter, the Utah Supreme Court stated that exactions are “government-mandated
contributions.” B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County (BAM III), 2012 UT 26, ¶ 16, 282 P.3d 41, 45. In
addition, the United States Supreme Court also strongly indicated that rough proportionality analysis is required
when exactions are imposed by government entities. See Koontz v. St. Johns River Water Management Dist., 133
S.Ct. 2586, 2603 (2013).

Advisory Opinion – SUHBA/Dixie Power
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2015 Page 7 of 9
“land use authority is a person, board, commission, agency, or body, including the local
legislative body, designated by the local legislative body to act upon a land use application.”
UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-103(23). As a public utility, Dixie Power is not authorized to act upon
a land use application, and so it is not a land use authority. Thus, its rule that installation must be
carried out by its employees is not governed by LUDMA. That rule should be acceptable,
provided it is reasonable under the circumstances.

     IV. Dixie Power’s Requirements, Regulations, and Fees Must be Just and Reasonable

Even though Dixie Power is not subject to the Impact Fees Act, LUDMAN, or rough
proportionality analysis, it is still under the jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission
(PSC).23 The Utah Code requires that a utility’s fees and regulations be “just and reasonable:

           All charges made, demanded or received by any public utility . . . shall be just and
           reasonable. Every unjust or unreasonable charge made, demanded or received . . .
           is hereby prohibited and declared unlawful. . . . All rules and regulations made by
           a public utility affecting or pertaining to its charges or service to the public shall
           be just and reasonable. The scope of definition “just and reasonable” may include,
           but shall not be limited to, the cost of providing service . . . the economic impact
           of charges . . . and on the well-being of the state of Utah; methods of reducing
           wide periodic variations in demand of such products, commodities or services,
           and means of encouraging conservation of resources and energy.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 54-3-1. The PSC is authorized to review a utility’s fees and regulations, and
determine whether the fees or regulations are just and reasonable.24 This review includes not only
the fees, but Dixie Power’s rule that only its employees may install its equipment.

The importance of public utility service for new development cannot be overstated. Commercial,
industrial, and residential land uses would not be possible without utility services provided by
companies and entities regulated by the PSC. This does not mean, however, that new
development is at the mercy of utility providers. The statutory provision cited above requires that
a utility’s fees and regulations be just and reasonable. Any person may seek review of a utility’s
charges or rules through the PSC.

It is not within the purview of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman to review a public
utility’s charges or regulations. As Dixie Power explains, it is not a governmental entity, but is
regulated by the PSC as a public utility. The PSC reviews and approves any charges and
regulations imposed by a public utility, including Dixie Power’s fees and rules. It is presumed
that Dixie Power has obtained the necessary approvals for its operations from the PSC, and if so,
its fees should be entitled to a presumption of validity. Any disputes regarding the amount of


23
   See UTAH CODE ANN. § 54-4-1 (Public Service Commission has jurisdiction and authority to regulation every
public utility within Utah). Dixie Power’s service area extends into Arizona, and that service may be subject to
regulation by Arizona’s authorities.
24
   See id., §§ 54-7-1 to -30 (Authority of Public Service Commission to conduct hearings, issue orders, and penalize
violations).

Advisory Opinion – SUHBA/Dixie Power
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2015 Page 8 of 9
utility charges or rules imposed by a utility should be brought to the PSC, following the process
found in Title 54 of the Utah Code.

                                                    Conclusion
Public utility companies are not governmental agencies, and so are not governed by land use
statutes and the Impact Fees Act.25 The Impact Fees Act applies only to local political
subdivisions and private water suppliers. Utility companies are not subject to the Act, even if
they designate their required charges “impact fees.” Moreover, a public utility does not grant
development approval, and so cannot charge an impact fee, within the meaning of the Act. There
is no statutory authorization to extend the Impact Fees Act to include private utility companies,
even when they provide service to new development.

Similarly, public utilities also do not require exactions, because they are not government
agencies, do not grant development approval, and do not require donation of property for public
infrastructure. Thus, they are not obligated to comply with rough proportionality analysis. Along
the same lines, public utilities are not subject to LUDMA, and are not required to comply with its
provisions.

Public utilities are regulated by the Public Service Commission, and fees and regulations may be
reviewed by that body. Utah’s laws require that both fees and rules imposed by a public utility be
“just and reasonable.” Any person may request that the Public Service Commission review a
utility’s charges or regulations.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




25
     Utilities provided by governmental agencies are regulated by land use laws and the Impact Fees Act.

Advisory Opinion – SUHBA/Dixie Power
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2015 Page 9 of 9
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                      Dixie Power
                      145 W. Brigham Road
                      St. George, Utah 84790

                      Southern Utah Home Builders Association
                      2303 N. Coral Canyon Blvd., # 200
                      Washington, Utah 84780

On this ___________ Day of April, 2015, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
