                     Advisory Opinion #199
                                   Parties: Shawn Cronquist; Nibley City
                                           Issued: July 17, 2018

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                        Exactions on Development



The City’s exaction requiring the developer to dedicate and construct a half-width
of 450 West where it abuts the proposed development is roughly proportionate to
the proposed development’s impact on the community. Moreover, the City’s
requirement to dedicate a trail easement along the Blacksmith Fork Irrigation Ditch
where it crosses the property is likewise proportionate and appropriate.
Consequently, the City may require the developer to resubmit a preliminary plat
reflecting these requirements.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI     BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director    Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor



                                             ADVISORY OPINION
        Advisory Opinion Requested By:               Shawn Cronquist

        Local Government Entity:                     Nibley City

        Type of Property:                            Residential

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:               July 17, 2018

        Opinion Authored By:                         Jordan S. Cullimore
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                      ISSUE
        Whether Nibley City’s requirements to dedicate and construct a half-width of 450 West Street
        along the western portion of Mr. Cronquist’s proposed development and also dedicate a trail
        easement through the property constitute lawful exactions.

                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        The City’s exaction requiring Mr. Cronquist to dedicate and construct a half-width of 450 West
        where it abuts Mr. Cronquist’s proposed development is roughly proportionate to the proposed
        development’s impact on the community. Moreover, the City’s requirement to dedicate a trail
        easement along the Blacksmith Fork Irrigation Ditch where it crosses the property is likewise
        proportionate and appropriate. Consequently, the City may require Mr. Cronquist to resubmit a
        preliminary plat reflecting these requirements.

                                                    REVIEW
        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
        administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
        application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
        hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
        neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
        the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
        the courts.
A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Shawn Cronquist on September 28, 2017.
A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to David Zook, City Manager for Nibley City,
at 455 West 3200 South, Nibley, Utah.

                                           EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Shawn Cronquist on September 28, 2017.
     2. Timeline and Summary of Events, submitted by Shawn Cronquist via email, on October
        3, 2017.
     3. Response Letter submitted by Seth J. Tait, Attorney for Nibley City, on April 9, 2018.

                                          BACKGROUND
In August 2017, Shawn Cronquist submitted an application for preliminary plat approval of
Nibley Meadows Subdivision, located at approximately 3400 South 250 West in Nibley City (the
City). City staff reviewed the application and determined it did not meet Nibley City Code
requirements because it did not propose to construct half of 450 West street, a master-planned
road abutting the final lot on the west end of the proposed subdivision. Additionally, staff
determined the preliminary plat application was deficient because it did not propose to dedicate
to the public a trail easement along the Blacksmith Fork Irrigation Ditch, in accordance with the
City’s Trail Master Plan.

In light of staff’s analysis, the Planning Commission considered the application on August 23,
2017. Mr. Cronquist was not present at the hearing. After considering the application, the
Commission made a recommendation of approval to the City Council, subject to the condition
that Mr. Cronquist include dedication and half-width construction of 450 West along the west
end of the subdivision and dedication of the trail easement on the plat.

On September 7, 2017, the City Council considered the application. A representative for Mr.
Cronquist, Dan Larsen, attended the meeting and indicated that while he did not oppose
including the 450 West right-of-way on the plat, he nonetheless felt that the requirement to
construct half of the road, along with curb, gutter, and sidewalk, was excessive and unlawful,
presumably because he did not feel it was necessary for the development. Because of Mr.
Cronquist’s unwillingness to agree to construct the road improvements, the City Council denied
the application.

Mr. Cronquist has requested an Advisory Opinion from this office to determine whether the
requirement to construct half of 450 West where it abuts the proposed subdivision constitutes an
unlawful exaction. Additionally, in his request for Advisory Opinion to this office, Mr. Cronquist
also indicates that he feels the requirement to dedicate the trail easement along Blacksmith Fork
Irrigation Ditch where it runs through the proposed subdivision likewise constitutes an unlawful
exaction.

Advisory Opinion – Shawn Cronquist
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 17, 2018     Page 2 of 8
                                              ANALYSIS
I.         The “Rough Proportionality” Test for Development Exactions

Nibley City’s requirement to construct a half-width of 450 West where it abuts the proposed
subdivision is a development exaction. A development exaction “is a government-mandated
contribution of property imposed as a condition” of development approval. B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v.
Salt Lake County, (BAM III), 2012 UT 26, ¶16. Exactions arise from the principle that
development causes impacts to a community. In order to address and offset these impacts, the
community may require dedication of land, or construction of public improvements such as
asphalt, curb, gutter, and sidewalk. Such mandatory dedications implicate the Takings Clause of
the U.S. Constitution, “which protects private property from governmental taking without just
compensation.” Id.

Development exactions are legal and appropriate only if they are “roughly proportionate” to the
impact the development creates. This principle governing exactions is derived from the U.S.
Supreme Court’s landmark decisions in Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825
(1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994). The Utah Legislature distilled and
codified the U.S. Supreme Court’s exaction analysis in Utah Code § 10-9a-508(1). The analysis
has been termed the “rough proportionality test,” and provides:

A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in a land use
application . . ., if:

           (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each exaction;
           and,
           (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the
           proposed development.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1). If a proposed exaction satisfies this test, it is valid. If the exaction
fails the test, it violates protections guaranteed by the Takings Clauses of the Utah and U.S.
Constitutions. Call v. West Jordan, 614 P.2d 1257, 1259 (Utah 1980). A principal objective of the
test is to “bar Government from forcing some people alone to bear public burdens which, in all
fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.” Armstrong v. United States, 364
U.S. 40, 49 (1960). An exaction is valid and proportionate when it offsets the costs of a
development’s impact. An excessive exaction requires a property owner to pay for impacts
beyond his own. Banberry Development Corporation v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899, 903
(Utah 1981).

In light of these principles, the Utah Supreme Court has provided further direction on how to
analyze rough proportionality. In B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County (BAM II), 2008
UT 74, the court explained that rough proportionality analysis articulated above “has two
aspects: first, the exaction and impact must be related in nature; second, they must be related in
extent.” Id. at ¶9. The “nature” aspect focuses on the relationship between the anticipated impact
and proposed exaction. The court described the approach “in terms of a solution and a

Advisory Opinion – Shawn Cronquist
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 17, 2018     Page 3 of 8
problem…. [T]he impact is the problem, or the burden which the community will bear because
of the development. The exaction should address the problem. If it does, then the nature
component has been satisfied.” Id. at ¶10.

The “extent” aspect of the rough proportionality analysis measures the impact against the
proposed exaction in terms of cost. Id. at ¶11 (“The most appropriate measure is cost—
specifically, the cost of the exaction and the impact to the developer and the municipality,
respectively.”). The court explained that “roughly proportional” means “roughly equivalent.” Id.
at ¶8. Thus, in order to be valid, the cost of an exaction must be roughly equivalent to the cost
that a local government would incur to mitigate impacts attributable to development.

In the third “B.A.M.” decision, the Utah Supreme Court summarized this analysis, firmly tying
the exaction to the infrastructure needs created by the development:

           [N]ot only must the nature of an exaction relate to government purpose or need
           (in that the exaction must alleviate the burdens imposed on infrastructure by the
           development), but the extent of the exaction must also be roughly proportional to
           the government’s need for infrastructure improvements created by the
           development.

BAM III, 2012 UT at ¶ 26. Accordingly, the City’s requirement that Mr. Cronquist construct the
half-width improvements within the 450 West right-of-way and dedicate the trail easement must
satisfy the rough proportionality test. The proposed exactions must solve problems the proposed
subdivision creates. Moreover, the costs to Mr. Cronquist to improve the subject portion of 450
West and dedicate the trail easement must be proportionate to the impacts the development
imposes on the City’s ability to provide services.

The City possesses the burden to show the proposed exactions are proportionate, or equivalent,
to the development’s impacts and therefore valid. See Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391-92. “No precise
mathematical calculation is required, but the city must make some sort of individualized
determination that the required dedication is related both in nature and extent to the impact of the
proposed development.” Id. at 391 (emphasis added).

Accordingly, we analyze the City’s reasons for imposing the exaction to determine “whether
[their] findings are constitutionally sufficient to justify the conditions imposed” on Mr.
Cronquist’s development proposal. Id. at 389.

II.        The 450 West Exaction

           A.          The Exaction Advances a Legitimate Government Interest

The first part of Utah Code section 10-9a-508(1) requires an essential link between a legitimate
governmental interest and the exaction imposed. The City’s legitimate government interest in this
case is safe and efficient traffic flow for vehicles and pedestrians. Constructing new roadways is
vital component in accomplishing this objective. See Carrier v. Lindquist, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18, 37
P.3d 1112, 1117 (“In order for a government to be effective, it needs the power to establish or

Advisory Opinion – Shawn Cronquist
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 17, 2018     Page 4 of 8
relocate public throughways . . . for the convenience and safety of the general public.”) See also
UTAH CODE § 10-8-8.

Moreover, state law authorizes local governments to establish official maps that plan the location
of transportation corridors. See UTAH CODE § 72-5-403(2); see also UTAH CODE § 10-9a-401
(allowing a city to plan for transportation needs in its general plan). Accordingly, the essential
link portion of the rough proportionality test is satisfied. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1)(a).

           B.          The Requirement to Construct a Half-width of 450 West Satisfies the Nature
                       Aspect of the Rough Proportionality Analysis

As indicated above, the nature aspect of the rough proportionality test requires an exaction to
provide a solution to a problem the proposed development presents. The proposed subdivision
will add residents to the community, and those residents will have transportation and access
needs. A requirement to construct and provide street access to the subdivided lots addresses these
issues.

One of Mr. Cronquist’s principal objections has been that the lots in his proposed subdivision
will not front along, nor have direct access to, the planned 450 West street. He believes that if the
homes will not directly access the street, he does not need the street. Thus he feels that the city
may not require him to construct any portion of it. While he may argue that the 450 West
connection is not necessary to serve the development, the operative question is not one of wholly
of necessity, but also of impact. The City possesses a reasonable degree of discretion to design
transportation networks and provide adequate services in a manner it believes will best serves the
public interest. See generally Banberry v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899, 904 (Utah 1981).

Street connections are important in providing adequate access and circulation, and the City,
through thoughtful and careful planning, may identify where to locate and require such
connections. The proposed subdivision will add vehicles to the City’s transportation network and
will create new traffic impacts. Traffic from this development will inevitably use the 450 West
connection to access other parts of the community, as well as regional transportation corridors.
Adequate connectivity and multiple circulation options also decrease congestion caused by
increased traffic. Since the new lots created by this proposed subdivision present a problem that
may be solved by dedication and improvement of new streets, the nature aspect of the test is
satisfied.

           C.          The City’s Exaction Satisfies the Extent Aspect of the Analysis

The City may only exact an amount that proportionately offsets its cost to provide adequate
transportation facilities to the proposed development. The extent aspect of the test compares the
City’s cost to address the development’s impact with the property owner’s cost to dedicate and/or
construct the proposed exaction—in this case the cost to construct a half-width of the segment of
450 West abutting the development.

The City rightly points out that while the cost to a property owner of an imposed exaction is
typically easy to measure in terms of a dollar amount, the cost to the local government of

Advisory Opinion – Shawn Cronquist
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 17, 2018     Page 5 of 8
mitigating impacts attributable to the development is often more difficult to conceptualize in
terms of monetary cost. In many cases such an analysis is impractical if not impossible with
mathematical precision. Moreover, as stated previously, mathematical precision is not required.
The standard is rough proportionality. In light of this reality, the City has sought to achieve
rough proportionality by “requiring dedication or construction of that portion only of the needed
improvements that abut or cross the subdivision.” The City further justifies its approach as
follows:

           [I]f every land owner along a master-planned road dedicated and constructed just
           the one-half of the property and road that abuts that owner’s property only, then
           by the time the road is completed, each owner will have contributed only its
           proportionate share of the road. This approach is both reasonable to understand
           and administer in practice, especially in the application of residential development
           or rural areas which are usually subject to similar density throughout the City.

Conceptually, the City’s approach appears to be equitable, but the analysis must go further to
pass constitutional muster. The question isn’t simply whether the road abuts the proposed the
development, but whether the proposed development will actually have an impact proportionate
to the amount exacted by the City.

The proposed development does abut the master-planned 450 West street, and the additional lots
created by the development will also have a direct traffic impact on the road. It does not appear
that access by the adjacent lot to the road will be restricted, and it is reasonably conceivable that
the lots in the proposed subdivision will use the road. Since the road interfaces directly with the
proposed subdivision and will be used by its residents, some form of exaction will be
appropriate.

Though the City’s extent analysis of the rough proportionality test appears to be over-
generalized, it satisfies the analysis in this case. This office has observed that a typical, generally
accepted baseline exaction in the context of local roads for residential development is a half-
width street along lot frontages. The City may need to adjust this baseline half-width exaction in
any given case in light of evidence that the specific development’s impact does not represent a
typical impact.

The present scenario, however, does not appear to present any evidence that such adjustment is
necessary. The development will use the 450 West connection, and the street is designed as a
local street, as opposed to a collector or arterial road.1 Since the development will interface fully
with 450 West, it appears that the typical, half-width exaction requirement is appropriate.

Accordingly, the City’s approach in this case satisfies the extent aspect of the rough
proportionality analysis. The approach does not require Mr. Cronquist to dedicate or construct
improvements that another party should arguably provide. In other words, it only seeks to offset
the City’s cost to address the impacts of the proposed development. Consequently, the City’s

1
 If the road was designed to be a collector or arterial road, the City would need to justify why the developer should
bear the added burden of such a road that will also offset the burden created by neighboring development. That is
not the case here.
Advisory Opinion – Shawn Cronquist
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 17, 2018     Page 6 of 8
requirement to construct a half-width of 450 West where it abuts the development is valid and
appropriate in this case.2

III.       The Trail Easement Exaction

The City’s proposed requirement to dedicate a trail easement along Blacksmith Fork Irrigation
Ditch is likewise valid.

           A.          The Exaction Advances a Legitimate Government Interest

First, the City is pursuing the legitimate governmental interest of providing pedestrian and
recreational facilities, as defined by the City’s Trail Master Plan. See UTAH CODE § 10-8-8 (A
city may lay out parks and public grounds); see also UTAH CODE § 10-9a-401(2)(a) (A city’s
general plan may provide for recreational opportunities). Consequently, the trail easement
exaction satisfies the essential link portion of the rough proportionality test

           B.          The Requirement to Dedicate a Trail Easement across the Proposed Development
                       Satisfies the Nature and Extent Aspects of the Rough Proportionality Analysis

Moreover, a requirement to dedicate a trail easement within the subdivision is an appropriate
solution to the City’s problem of providing park, recreation, open space, and pedestrian facilities.
Additional development creates a need for added recreational and pedestrian facilities, and
dedication of a trail network addresses this need. Consequently, the nature aspect of the analysis
is satisfied.

While the City doesn’t provide a detailed analysis of the extent aspect of the analysis related to
cost, it provides the following rationale:

           While the City recognizes that the portion of the trail crossing the Subdivision
           will likely be used at some point by citizens of the City that may live in areas
           other than in the Subdivision, the City also feels the bulk of the use and impact on
           the trail section in question will be from those who live the closest to that section
           of the trail. Thus, the City again approaches “rough proportionality” by requesting
           that each developer dedicate only that portion of the trail which crosses or abuts
           the new development with the understanding that if each land owner does so, then
           by the time the trail is fully constructed, each land owner will have contributed
           towards the roughly proportionate share of each development’s impact on the trail
           system.

City Response Letter dated April 6, 2018.



2
 The City acknowledges that the proposed centerline alignment of 450 West does not perfectly follow the proposed
development’s western boundary line. As a result, land dedication of more than a half-width of the right-of-way may
be required. The City is willing to purchase any needed land in excess of the half-width requirement, and it is
confident it will be able to reach an acceptable solution with the property owner in this regard.
Advisory Opinion – Shawn Cronquist
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 17, 2018     Page 7 of 8
Here again, the City may be overgeneralizing by attempting to apply a categorical requirement to
a question of individual impacts. That said, in the present case, it appears the City’s requirement
to dedicate an unimproved easement across the land involving only the proposed subdivision
proportionately offsets the City’s burden to provide pedestrian and recreational services to the
development. The residents in the subdivision will certainly use the proposed trail system, and
requiring the developer to only dedicate, but not improve, the trail easement within the proposed
development is a reasonable and proportionate means of offsetting the proposed development’s
impact on the City pedestrian and recreational facilities.3

In other words, the exaction only requires the property owner to address its own impacts and not
impacts that others should address. Consequently, the City may lawfully require dedication of a
trail easement along the irrigation ditch where it traverses the proposed development.

                                               CONCLUSION
The City’s exaction requiring Mr. Cronquist to dedicate and construct a half-width of 450 West
where it abuts Mr. Cronquist’s proposed development is roughly proportionate to the proposed
development’s impact on the community. Moreover, the City’s requirement to dedicate a trail
easement along the Blacksmith Fork Irrigation Ditch where it crosses the property is likewise
proportionate and appropriate. Consequently, the City may require Mr. Cronquist to resubmit a
preliminary plat reflecting these requirements.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




3
 Neither party has explicitly indicated the width of the proposed easement. We assume that the required with will
only be that which is reasonably necessary for safe travel and maintenance. This factor plays into the rough
proportionality analysis, and cannot be excessive or disproportionate to development impact.
Advisory Opinion – Shawn Cronquist
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 17, 2018     Page 8 of 8
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                      David Zook, City Manager
                      Nibley City
                      455 West 3200 South
                      Nibley, UT 84321

On this ___________ Day of _______, 2018, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
