                   Advisory Opinion #138
This Advisory Opinion reconsiders Advisory Opinion #132 and supersedes it in
                      part as set forth in this Opinion.

                            Parties: Gordon L. Miner and the City of Lehi
                                        Issued: March 25, 2014
           Reconsidered Opinion – Original Opinion #132, Issued on October 25, 2013

                                         TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                       Impact Fees Act
                                 Interpretation of Ordinances

The Impact Fee Act requires certain information to be identified. Statutory terms
should be accorded their plain meaning. Interpreting the word identify to
mean analyze or prove strains the meaning of the word. Its plain meaning is
synonymous with indicate or show.

In this case, the City of Lehi’s 2007 Capital Facilities Study and its 2008 Impact
Fee Analysis were minimally compliant with the effective provisions of the Impact
Fee Act because they identify the required information.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                        State of Utah
                        Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                        OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 SPENCER J. COX
Lieutenant Governor



                                         ADVISORY OPINION
                                          (RECONSIDERED)
      Advisory Opinion Requested by:               Gordon L. Miner

      Local Government Entity:                     City of Lehi

      Date of Original Advisory Opinion:           October 25, 2013

      Date of this Reconsideration:                March 25, 2014

      Reconsidered Opinion Authored By:            Brent N. Bateman
                                                   Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                   Issues
      Is Lehi City’s Impact Fee illegal on its face because the documents fail to comply with certain
      sections of the Impact Fee Act?

                                      Summary of Advisory Opinion
      The Lehi City 2007 Capital Facilities Study and the 2008 Impact Fee Analysis were minimally
      compliant with the effective provisions of the Impact Fee Act. The Act at that time required that
      certain information be identified, and the documents identify that information.

      The Lehi impact fee documents lack some meaningful analysis and information. Nevertheless, in
      accordance with the rules of statutory construction, the term identify should be accorded its plain
      meaning. Interpreting the word identify to mean analyze or prove strains the meaning of the
      word. Identification is all that the statute at the time required. Documents that identify the
      information are minimally compliant with the statute.

                                                  Review
      On October 22, 2013, this Office issued an Advisory Opinion in the matter of Gordon Miner
      versus the City of Lehi regarding impact fees. On November 6, 2013, Gordon Miner formally
      requested that certain portions of the October 22 Advisory Opinion be reexamined and
      reconsidered. It is this Office’s policy to accept and consider such requests when received. This
      Reconsidered Advisory Opinion is issued in response to that request.
This Reconsidered Advisory Opinion does not supersede or replace the October 22 Advisory
Opinion, except with regard to the specific questions addressed herein. The October 22 Advisory
Opinion remains in full force and effect as the opinion of this Office, except as supplemented by
this document. To the extent the October 22 Advisory Opinion conflicts with matters addressed
in this document, this document controls.

                                                          Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this
Reconsidered Advisory Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

      1.          October 22, 2013 Advisory Opinion issued by this Office.
      2.          Request for Reconsideration from Gordon Miner, received by email transmission on
                  November 6, 2013.
      3.          December 2007 Capital Facilities Study, received December 10, 2013 from Lehi
                  City.
      4.          Letter from Gordon Miner dated January 13, 2014, captioned Request for
                  Reconsideration – Addendum.
      5.          Letter dated February 19, 2014 from Lehi City responding to Mr. Miner’s Request.


                                                          Background
In 2012, Gordon L. Miner received a building permit to construct a new home in eastern Lehi.
The City required Mr. Miner to pay impact fees in order to obtain final approval for the new
home. Mr. Miner objects to the City’s impact fees, and requested an Advisory Opinion to
evaluate their legality. On October 22, 2013, this Office issued an Advisory Opinion in response
to Mr. Miner’s request. In summary, that Advisory Opinion concluded that Mr. Miner was
generally unable to provide arguments and evidence sufficient to meet his burden to prove that
the charged fees were excessive and illegal.

On November 6, 2013, Mr. Miner submitted a request to reconsider that Advisory Opinion.
Specifically, Mr. Miner requested that this Office consider three questions regarding Lehi’s 2007
Capital Facilities Study:

            The entire Capital Facilities Study December 2007 is illegal on its face because it
            fails to: (1) identify demands placed upon the existing public facilities by new
            development activity, (2) justify the proposed means (sizing) by which the City
            will meet those demands, (3) establish the current level of service, to serve as a
            basis to achieve an equitable allocation to the costs borne in the past and to be
            borne in the future, in comparison to the benefits already received and yet to be
            received.



Advisory Opinion (Reconsideration) – Miner/City of Lehi
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 25, 2014 Page 2 of 7
In support, Mr. Miner argued that the December 2007 Capital Facilities Study provided no
methodology to support its calculations. Because no methodology was provided in the Plan, it
was impossible for Mr. Miner to refute the calculations.

Mr. Miner submitted further documentation dated January 13, 2014, in a letter titled Request for
Reconsideration – Addendum. Therein he generally expanded on and rephrased his arguments to
align more closely with the language of the Impact Fee Act. Specifically, Mr. Miner argued that
the 2007 Capital Facilities Study fails to (1) “identify demands placed upon existing public
facilities by new development activity;” and (2) “identify the proposed means by which the local
political subdivision will meet those demands.” Mr. Miner further argues that the March 2008
Impact Fee Analysis fails to (1) “identify the anticipated impact on or consumption of any
existing capacity of a public facility by the anticipated development activity;” and (2) “identify
the anticipated impact on system improvements required by the anticipated development activity
to maintain the established level of service for each public facility.” Mr. Miner argues that these
failures to comply with the Impact Fee Act render the impact fees invalid.

The City of Lehi responded to Mr. Miner’s arguments in a letter dated February 18, 2014,
wherein the City argued that its documents complied with the act because the documents identify
the requested information.

                                                          Analysis
            I.                                                                                      T
                        he Meaning of the Word Identify

In his request for reconsideration, Mr. Miner challenges whether or not the Lehi impact fee
documents contain certain information required by the Impact Fee Act. The Act’s language
requires that this information be “identified.” Thus, if the documents identify that information,
the documents comply with these provisions of the Act. The meaning of the term identify is
therefore a threshold question to this challenge.

Statutory interpretation always begins with the plain language.

            When interpreting statutes, our primary objective . . . is to give effect to the
            legislature’s intent. To discern legislative intent, we look first to the statute’s plain
            language. In doing so, we presume that the legislature used each word advisedly
            and read each term according to its ordinary and accepted meaning.

Selman v. Box Elder County, 2011 UT 18, ¶ 18, 251 P.3d 804, 807 (quotations and alterations
omitted).

Mr. Miner argues that the term Identify as used in Impact Fee Act should mean to “show
something to be true by determining the facts.” In support of this interpretation, he cites the
“Oxford Dictionary” which he indicates defines the word Identify as “To establish or indicate
what something is.” He then further indicates that the term Establish in the Oxford Dictionary


Advisory Opinion (Reconsideration) – Miner/City of Lehi
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 25, 2014 Page 3 of 7
means “to show something to be true or certain by determining the facts.” Thus he would replace
the word identify in the statute with the phrase “show the true (insert noun) by determining the
facts.”

Thus Mr. Miner’s interpretation essentially applies the definition of the word establish to the
word identify, synonymizing the word identify with analyze or prove. This strains the meaning
of the term identify, which more closely synonymizes with indicate or show. When interpreting
statutes, the plain meaning must be given effect. Thus, we reject the argument that the term
identify in the statute means that the City must analyze, prove and justify. If the legislature had
intended to require some analysis or even some explanation or a certain level of detail, we trust
that they would have said so. We assume that the legislature selected the word identify advisedly,
so to comply with the statute, the City must identify the required information.


            II.                                                                                                 T
                        he 2007 Capital Facilities Study

                        a.                                                                    T
                              he Capital Facilities Study Sufficiently Identifies Demands upon
                              Existing Facilities.

Mr. Miner argues that the 2007 Capital Facilities Study is invalid because it fails to “identify
demands placed upon existing public facilities by new development activity” as required by the
Impact Fee Act. In 2012, at the time Lehi City imposed impact fees upon Mr. Miner, the Utah
Impact Fee Act required that “An impact fee facilities plan shall identify: demands placed upon
existing public facilities by new development activity.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302(1) (2012). 1
This requirement also existed in the Impact Fee Act in December 2007, when the 2007 Capital
Facilities Study was prepared and adopted by Lehi City: “The plan shall identify: demands
placed upon existing public facilities by new development activity.” UTAH CODE § 11-36-
201(2)(c)(i) (2007). Thus, Lehi City’s 2007 Capital Facilities Study must identify demands
placed upon existing public facilities by new development activity.

Lehi City’s 2007 Capital Facilities Study does not impress. It does not appear to have been
prepared with much concern for demonstrating compliance with the Impact Fees Act. Granted, at
the time the Lehi study was prepared, the Utah Impact Fee Act was arguably a disorganized
mess. Nevertheless, in the experience of this Office many Capital Facilities Plans adopted during
that period aligned much more closely with the Impact Fee Act’s language and intent than Lehi’s
2007 Capital Facilities Study. 2 In the opinion of this Office, the 2007 Lehi Capital Facilities
Study’s narrative is thin, and much of the data provided is unexplained and difficult to interpret.
1
  UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302 was amended during the 2013 legislative session, and currently requires that in Impact
Fee Facilities Plan identify an existing level of service, and establish a proposed level of service that will exist after
construction of the facilities, as well as identify how the proposed level of service will be met.
2
  To provide a simple example, the 2007 Impact Fee Act specifically required the City to prepare two documents,
one titled Capital Facilities Plan and another titled Impact Fee Study. The document upon which Lehi City’s impact
fees are based is confusingly titled Capital Facilities Study despite the instruction in the statute to title it Capital
Facilities Plan.

Advisory Opinion (Reconsideration) – Miner/City of Lehi
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 25, 2014 Page 4 of 7
Nevertheless, the Impact Fee Act requires that the Capital Facilities Plan “identify demands
placed upon existing public facilities by new development activity.” Although minimal, the 2007
Capital Facilities Study does so. Generally in the appendices, by map and by table, and
somewhat mentioned in the narrative, the study identifies the City’s existing systems, and
identifies the additional systems that will be necessary to accommodate the anticipated growth.
In doing so, the Study identifies the demands placed upon existing facilities by new development
activity, minimally complying with the statute.

                        b.                                                                            T
                              he Lehi Capital Facilities Study Sufficiently Identifies the Proposed
                              Means.

Mr. Miner further argues that the 2007 Capital Facilities Study is invalid because it fails to
“identify the proposed means by which the local political subdivision will meet those demands”
as required by the Impact Fee Act. In 2012, the Utah Impact Fee Act required that “An impact
fee facilities plan shall identify: the proposed means by which the local political subdivision will
meet those demands.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302(1)(b) (2012). This requirement also existed in
the Impact Fee Act in December 2007: “The plan shall identify: the proposed means by which
the local political subdivision will meet those demands.” UTAH CODE § 11-36-201(2)(c)(ii).

As explained above, the statutory language requires that the Capital Facilities Plan simply
identify the means rather than justify the means. Reading the term identify to mean the same as
justify strains the meaning of the word identify and violates the requirement that statutes be
interpreted according to their plain language. Minimal compliance with the statute requires that
the means to meet demands are identified.

The 2007 Capital Facilities Study does sufficiently identify the proposed means to meet the
demands of future development. The appendices contain in multiple locations maps and data that
show in detail the proposed facilities to be constructed to meet the demands of future
development. Here the Study adequately identifies the proposed means, as the statute requires.
Thus, Lehi City’s 2007 Capital Facilities Study is minimally compliant with the Impact Fee Act.

            III.                                                                                      T
                        he March 2008 Impact Fee Analysis

                        a.                                                                      T
                              he Impact Fee Analysis Sufficiently Identifies Impacts On or
                              Consumption of Existing Capacity and impacts to Maintain the Level
                              of Service.

Mr. Miner argues that the Impact Fee Analysis, Lehi City, March 2008, is likewise deficient in
that it violates UTAH CODE § 11-36a-304, which requires that an Impact Fee Analysis “(a)
identify the anticipated impact on or consumption of any existing capacity of a public facility by
the anticipated development activity,” and “(b) identify the anticipated impact on system


Advisory Opinion (Reconsideration) – Miner/City of Lehi
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 25, 2014 Page 5 of 7
improvements required by the anticipated development activity to maintain the established level
of service for each public facility.” Again, Mr. Miner attempts to strain the meaning of the word
identify, and his interpretation is rejected in favor of the plain meaning of the word.

The 2008 Impact Fee Analysis in multiple locations identifies both the impacts on existing
capacities and the impacts on system improvements to maintain the levels of service. 3 Existing
capacities and levels of service for different facilities are identified throughout the Analysis, such
as on pages 21, 27, 32 etc. Thus, the Analysis complies with this section of the Act. 4

                                                          Conclusion
Based on the plain meaning rule of statutory construction, where the statute requires that certain
information be identified, indicating that information minimally complies. Although justifying
and analyzing the information may be characteristics of a better document, we will assume that
the legislature intentionally selected the term identify. Lehi City’s impact fee documents
generally provide those identifications.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




3
  In contrast to the 2007 Capital Facilities Study, the 2008 Impact Fee Analysis makes some effort to show
compliance with the Impact Fee Act. It contains multiple citations to the act, and in multiple locations it provides
information and identifies it as fulfilling a requirement in the Impact Fee Act.
4
  Again, this Opinion simply finds that the impacts have been identified. It does not reach whether or not those
impacts are correct or accurate. This is not a conclusion that the Lehi Impact Fees are proper and correct and beyond
legal challenge. Only that the information required by the Impact Fee Act has been identified.

Advisory Opinion (Reconsideration) – Miner/City of Lehi
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 25, 2014 Page 6 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion attorney fees
provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage resolution of
disputes. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if those
circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award them.
No party has a right to receive attorney’s fees under the Ombudsman Act. Thus, the
attorney fees provisions, like the entire Advisory Opinion process, should be viewed as a
tool to avoid litigation rather than a litigation strategy.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Connie J. Ashton, City Recorder
              Lehi City
              153 N. 100 East
              Lehi, Utah 84043

On this ___________ Day of March, 2014, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
