                    Advisory Opinion # 156
                 Parties: J L.C., Town of Alta, and Salt Lake County Board of Health
                                             Issued: April 15, 2015
                                  Correction & Withdrawal: August 4, 2015

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                     Exactions on Development

On April 15, 2015, the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman issued an
Advisory Opinion. Upon receipt and consideration of additional clarifying facts
provided by the parties, this Office finds that it lacks authority to issue an Advisory
Opinion in this matter. Accordingly, the Advisory Opinion in this matter dated April
15, 2015 is withdrawn in its entirety.




                                                DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each
Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was
prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes
or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide
general guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be
considered legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current
laws.




                     The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                                  (801) 530-6391
                     Utah Department of Commerce                                                 1-877-882-4662
                     PO Box 146702                                                           Fax: (801) 530-6338
                     160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                     www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                     Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                         propertyrights@utah.gov
                           State of Utah
                           Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                           OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 SPENCER J. COX            FRANCINE A. GIANI    BRENT N. BATEMAN
Lieutenant Governor        Executive Director   Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




                      CORRECTION AND WITHDRAWAL OF ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                 Evan Johnson

      Local Entity:                                  Town of Alta
                                                     Salt Lake City
                                                     Salt Lake County Board of Health

      Property Owner:                                J L.C.

      Type of Property:                              Recreational Cabin Property

      Date of this Correction:                       August 4, 2015

      Date of Original Opinion:                      April 15, 2015

      Correction and Withdrawal Authored By:         Brent N. Bateman
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                 Summary
      On April 15, 2015, the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman issued an Advisory Opinion,
      requested by J L.C., involving the Town of Alta and the Salt Lake County Board of Health. After
      the Opinion had issued, J L.C. requested reconsideration of the Opinion. The Town of Alta and
      the Salt Lake County Board of Health each responded and likewise requested reconsideration or
      correction of the Advisory Opinion.

      Upon consideration of the additional clarifying facts and arguments provided by each party in
      their requests for reconsideration, this Office finds that it lacks authority to issue an Advisory
      Opinion in this matter. Utah state law authorizes this Office to issue Advisory Opinions only
      upon certain enumerated subjects. See UTAH CODE § 13-43-205. This matter does not give rise to
      any of those subjects.

      Accordingly, the Advisory Opinion in this matter dated April 15, 2015 is hereby withdrawn in its
      entirety. No Advisory Opinion under UTAH CODE § 13-43-205 shall be considered to exist in this
      matter, and the previously issued April 15, 2015 Advisory Opinion shall have no legal force nor
      effect.
                                                                      Discussion
UTAH CODE § 13-43-205 gives the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman the responsibility
to prepare Advisory Opinions. However, in creating this function, the Legislature set specific
subject matter limitations upon which Advisory Opinions may be issued. Advisory Opinions are
available only to determine compliance with:

            (i)         Section 10-9a-505.5 and Sections 10-9a-507 through 10-9a-511;
            (ii)        Section 17-27a-505.5 and Sections 17-27a-506 through 17-27a-510; and
            (iii)       Title 11, Chapter 36a, Impact Fees Act.

UTAH CODE § 13-43-205. Where the subject of an Advisory Opinion clearly falls outside of those
statutory limitations, this Office lacks authority to issue an Advisory Opinion.

The matter under consideration arises from the Town of Alta’s refusal to consider J L.C.’s
applications for lot development in the Albion Basin and Cecret Lake areas. This Office
previously understood that the Town’s ordinances required each lot owner to dedicate sufficient
water rights to provide at least 400 gpd per cabin. The April 15, 2015 Advisory Opinion was
issued under the understanding that UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508 (“Exactions”) applied. The Town’s
requirement was analyzed under the exaction rules, and this Office’s jurisdiction rested fully on
that basis.

However, the Town of Alta and the Salt Lake County Board of Health both point out that this
understanding is in error and have requested correction. They point out that dedication of those
water rights is not required. An individual is only required to possess or show availability of that
volume of water in order to build in the area. Thus, because dedication is not required, they argue
that the matter is not an exaction and that this Office accordingly lacks authority to issue an
Advisory Opinion.

Development exactions arise out of the constitutional takings clause. Koontz v. St. Johns River
Water, 133 S. Ct. 2586 (2013). In Utah, the Supreme Court has instructed that “A development
exaction is a government-mandated contribution of property imposed as a condition of approving
a developer’s project.” B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2012 UT 26, ¶ 16, 282
P.3d 41, 45 (“BAM III”) (emphasis added). Further, the Utah Supreme Court has explained that
“Development exactions may take the form of (1) mandatory dedications of land . . ., (2) fees-in-
lieu of mandatory dedication, (3) water or sewage connection fees and (4) impact fees.” Salt
Lake County v. Board of Education, 808 P.2d 1056, 1058 (Utah 1991)(citation omitted). Exaction
jurisprudence at all levels indicates that exactions arise from the contribution or dedication or
property to public purposes.

Exactions are permissible unless excessive. If excessive, they may violate the takings provisions
of the constitution. Development requirements that do not involve the transfer or dedication of
property to the public use are not exactions.


Correction and Withdrawal of Advisory Opinion – J L.C./Town of Alta
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 4, 2015 Page 2 of 3
Alta’s water requirements are not dedicatory – they do not require J L.C. to surrender its water.
The water requirements relate to minimum volumes a person must possess in order to obtain a
building permit. Indeed, the Town of Alta neither exacts water nor owns water. Thus, because
neither Alta nor Salt Lake City requires dedication of the water, but only possession by the
property owner, the 400 gpd per cabin requirement is not an exaction.

The Town’s requirement that a landowner have available a certain minimum amount of water
prior to building compares to a requirement that a landowner possess a certain minimum acreage
in order to build. Such a requirement does not deprive the owner of its property, and is thus not
an exaction. The Town of Alta’s requirement is similar. J L.C. may need to own a certain
minimum acreage or a certain minimum volume of water to construct a cabin. Both may be far
more than he needs for his cabin. But those requirements are nevertheless not exactions because
J L.C. is not required to dedicate the property to the public use.

No other basis can be found to give this Office authority to issue an Advisory Opinion. The
arguments of J L.C. all relate to the excessiveness of the water requirement. Those arguments
may have merit, and other avenues of relief may be available. But whether meritorious or not,
those arguments do not establish jurisdiction in this office. Only when the Advisory Opinion
concerns one of the subjects listed in UTAH CODE § 13-43-205 is an Advisory Opinion
authorized.

                                                                      Conclusion
Accordingly, the previous Advisory Opinion in this matter, dated April 15, 2015, is hereby
withdrawn in its entirety, with no remaining legal force or effect. The Advisory Opinion request
does not raise issues within this Office’s subject matter jurisdiction, because the requirement in
question is not an exaction.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Correction and Withdrawal of Advisory Opinion – J L.C./Town of Alta
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 4, 2015 Page 3 of 3
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                      Mayor Tom Pollard
                      Town of Alta
                      10201 E. Highway 210
                      PO Box 8016
                      Alta, Utah 84092

On this 5th Day of August, 2015, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
