                     Advisory Opinion #185
                     Parties: Residents of Country Way Estates, Washington City
                                             Issued: May 16, 2017

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                         Compliance with Mandatory Land Use Ordinances

The City possesses broad authority and discretion to regulate and control public
streets for the benefit of the public. While the City has no legal obligation to limit
commercial traffic on Country Way Lane, it may limit or otherwise mitigate
detrimental traffic problems if it decides that doing so would benefit and advance
the public interest.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI      BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director     Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION
        Advisory Opinion Requested By:                Residents of Country Way Estates

        Local Government Entity:                      Washington City

        Type of Property:                             Residential

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:                May 16, 2017

        Opinion Authored By:                          Jordan S. Cullimore
                                                      Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                       ISSUE
        Does Washington City have a legal obligation to limit commercial and industrial traffic on a
        public street abutted by residential dwellings?

                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        Washington City possesses broad authority and discretion to regulate and control public streets
        for the benefit of the public. While the City has no legal obligation to limit commercial traffic on
        Country Way Lane, it may limit or otherwise mitigate detrimental traffic problems if it decides
        that doing so would benefit and advance the public interest.

                                                     REVIEW
        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
        administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
        application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
        hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
        neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
        the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
        the courts.

        A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from the Residents of Country Way Estates on
        November 10, 2016. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Danice B. Bullock,
City Recorder for Washington City, at 111 North 100 East, Washington, Utah, 84780. The City
received the request on November 21, 2016.

                                           EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Molly Shaheen on
        behalf of the Residents of Country Way Estates. Received November 10, 2016.
     2. Response submitted by Jeffrey N. Starkey, Attorney for Washington City, on January 25,
        2017.

                                          BACKGROUND
This opinion involves a segment of a public street named Country Way Lane, which runs through
Phase 2 of the Country Way Estates Subdivision in Washington City (the “City”). When this
stretch of Country Way Lane was completed and dedicated to the City as a public street in 2013
it led to a privately-owned bridge that crossed the Virgin River and connected to a dirt road
surrounded by undeveloped, residentially-zoned property. The dirt road also leads to the
Washington County Landfill further north. According to the submitted materials, Country Way
Estates Subdivision – Phase 2 consisted of 8 residential lots. The applicants who submitted this
Request for Advisory Opinion (the “Residents”) are the individual owners and occupants of 6 of
the lots in the subdivision.

After the Residents built their homes, the City purchased the privately-owned bridge sometime in
2016 and opened it to public use. This allowed public traffic to begin crossing the bridge to
access the dirt road to the north. The City maintains that the City’s Master Transportation Plan
has always intended Country Way Lane to cross the Virgin River and serve property to the north
of the river. The City further maintains that the Master Transportation Plan has always
contemplated that Country Way Lane would eventually function as a 4-lane “major collector,”
even though it presently functions only as a two-lane street. It appears that the residents were
unaware of these intentions when they purchased their lots and built their homes.

Sometime in 2016, large commercial vehicles, including semi-trucks, dump trucks, cement
trucks, and garbage trucks began using Country Way Lane to traverse the now-public bridge and
the dirt road to access the Washington County Landfill and surrounding area to the north. At the
time the Residents submitted their Advisory Opinion request to this office, these vehicles were
using Country Way Lane at an approximate rate of 10-20 vehicles per hour.

This abrupt change in commercial traffic volume prompted the Residents to write a letter to the
City in December 2016 requesting that it close the bridge to industrial traffic, change the
designation of Country Way Lane to a residential collector to limit traffic volume, and ensure
that the dirt road on the other side of the bridge develop as a meandering road to discourage
commercial use. In addition, the Residents have had conversations with city representatives and


Advisory Opinion – Country Way Estates
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 16, 2017      Page 2 of 4
attended City Council meetings in an attempt to reach an agreeable and acceptable solution to the
excessive commercial traffic problem on the road.

The City asserts that because the street and bridge are legally established public thoroughfares,
the City has a duty to allow all public traffic. Consequently, the City maintains that it may not
discriminate against public users of Country Way Lane or limit public use of the street. The City
feels that it is legally obligated to permit all forms of public access on Country Way Lane.
Because of this, the City has been unwilling to limit commercial vehicle traffic along the street.

The Residents subsequently submitted to this office a Request for Advisory Opinion asking
whether Washington City is legally obligated to limit excessive commercial traffic on a street
abutted by residential homes.

                                                   ANALYSIS
Public streets belong to the public and are intended for public use. See McQuillin, Municipal
Corporations, 3d ed., § 30:38. The Utah Supreme Court has observed that [s]treets from side to
side, including the sidewalks and all area between are primarily for the public use. The public
use is paramount.” Stringham v. Salt Lake City, 201 P.2d 758, 762 (Utah 1949). As stated
previously, the City argues that this means it is obligated to allow all forms of traffic, regardless
of impact, on Country Way Lane, and that it may not discriminate against certain users and give
others preferential treatment.

While it is true that public streets are intended primarily for public use, this principle must be
applied in context of the fact that public streets are also subject to the reasonable control and
regulation of the state. See McQuillin, Municipal Corporations, 3d. ed., § 30:38. In Utah, the
state legislature has followed the common practice of delegating control and regulation of local
streets to the local jurisdictions in which the streets are located. UTAH CODE § 10-8-8 states that
cities “may lay out, establish, open, alter, widen, narrow, extend, grade, pave, or otherwise
improve streets….” UTAH CODE § 10-8-8. This broad grant of authority enables local
governments in Utah to responsively provide for local transportation needs.1

In addition, section 10-8-11 of the Utah Code gives municipalities authority to “regulate the use
of streets….” UTAH CODE § 10-8-11 (emphasis added). Accordingly, while it is true that the City
may not specifically regulate who may use a public street by excluding certain classes of
individuals, it may, in the interest of the public health, safety, or welfare2, limit how, or in what
manner, the public may use public streets. Moreover, elected officials have the legal authority to
consider the needs of the community they represent and implement creative, balanced, and
mutually-beneficial solutions when providing municipal services such as transportation. See
Banberry v. South Jordan, 631 P.2d 899, 904 (Utah 1981).



1
  See Carrier v. Lindquist, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18, 37 P.3d 1112. (In order for a government to be effective, it needs the
power to establish or relocate public throughways…for the convenience and safety of the general public.)
2
  This authority a city possesses to provide for the health, safety and welfare of the community is referred to as the
“police power.” See Retan v. Salt Lake City, 226 P. 1095, 1097 (Utah 1924).
Advisory Opinion – Country Way Estates
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 16, 2017      Page 3 of 4
Cities regularly impose reasonable limits and restrictions on speed, vehicle weight, vehicle type,
etc., on public roads. The City acknowledges it is appropriate for government to prohibit vehicles
over a certain weight from using public streets if it is in the public interest to do so. Such a
restriction does not prohibit certain individuals, or the public, from using public streets; it simply
regulates the type of vehicles the public may use on a public street. It is also common practice,
and within a City’s authority, to restrict the use of other types of vehicles, such as ATVs, on
public streets in the interest of public safety.

Along these same lines, a city may install or allow on public streets a variety of traffic calming
devices such as speedbumps, curb extensions (bulb-outs), or raised medians to control and direct
traffic and to protect abutting landowners and other users of the public right-of-way.
Implementation of such measures is an appropriate exercise of a municipality’s authority and
duty to provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the community.

It is also true, however, that the City has no legal obligation to impose or install such restrictions
and measures in the absence of an existing local ordinance requiring such measures. Whether a
city should prohibit vehicles over a certain weight or of a certain type on a street is a legislative,
or policy, decision. This is also the case regarding the question of whether a city should
implement traffic calming measures along a given street.

A legislative decision is legal and appropriate “so long as the grounds for the decision are
‘reasonably debatable.’” Bradley v. Payson City, 2003 UT 16 ¶ 10, 70 P.3d 47. This means that a
court will deem a city council’s decision proper as long as the decision “could promote the
general welfare; or even if it is reasonably debatable that it is in the interest of the general
welfare.” Bradley, 2003 UT 16 ¶ 14, 70 P.3d 47. “The selection of one method of solving [a]
problem in preference to another is entirely within the discretion of the city.” Id.

Consequently, the local jurisdiction’s elected officials—in this case Washington City
Councilmembers—are tasked with determining what will best advance the health, safety, and
welfare of the community. The law gives these decision makers broad discretion and deference
when making these decisions. Accordingly, while the City has no legal obligation to prohibit or
limit commercial traffic on Country Way Lane, the City may nonetheless do so if it decides it
would advance or benefit the public interest.

                                          CONCLUSION
Washington City possesses broad authority and discretion to regulate and control public streets
for the benefit of the public. While the City has no legal obligation to limit commercial traffic on
Country Way Lane, it may limit or otherwise mitigate detrimental traffic problems if it decides
that doing so would benefit and advance the public interest.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

Advisory Opinion – Country Way Estates
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 16, 2017      Page 4 of 4
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                      Danice B. Bullock
                      City Recorder, Washington City
                      111 North 100 East
                      Washington, Utah 84780

On this ___________ Day of _______, 2017, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
