                     Advisory Opinion #134
                                    Parties: Ed Green and Layton City
                                         Issued: November 15, 2013

                                         TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                        D: Exactions on Development
                        J: Requirements Imposed Upon Development

A city and a developer are bound to comply with the terms of a valid annexation
agreement, even if the required construction is more than the developer’s
proportionate share of the needed costs for the construction.

An exaction may be imposed by generally-applicable ordinance. A valid exaction
must have a close connection to a public burden directly attributable to the impact
caused by a development. Promoting the legitimate public interest in beautifying a
roadway is not sufficiently connected to the impact of a new development. A
required easement intended for roadway beautification does not “solve” a
“problem” caused by new development, and is therefore not a valid exaction.




                                                DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each
Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was
prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes
or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide
general guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be
considered legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current
laws.
The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                (801) 530-6391
Utah Department of Commerce                               1-877-882-4662
PO Box 146702                                         Fax: (801) 530-6338
160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                   www.propertyrights.utah.gov
Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                       propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 SPENCER J. COX           FRANCINE A. GIANI       BRENT N. BATEMAN
Lieutenant Governor       Executive Director      Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




                                               ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                   Ed Green

      Local Government Entity:                         Layton City

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:             Green & Green, LC

      Type of Property:                                Residential Subdivision

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                   November 15, 2013

      Opinion Authored By:                             Elliot R. Lawrence
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       Issues
      May a local government require improvement and dedication of a landscaping easement to
      improve the appearance of public roadways?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
      The Developer remains obligated under the Annexation Agreement to dedicate and construct a
      portion of the road. Although the Developer believes this undertaking represents more than the
      Developer’s proportionate share of the expense for the road, the Annexation Agreement appears
      enforceable and cannot be undone. The Developer and the City are both obligated to perform
      according to the terms of the Agreement.

      The City’s requirement that the Developer dedicate a Landscaping Easement beyond the road is
      an exaction, even though imposed by ordinance, and must satisfy rough proportionality analysis.
      A valid exaction must have a close tie to a public burden directly attributable to the impact of a
      development. Promoting a public objective, no matter how desirable, that is not directly linked
      to the development, cannot be a valid exaction. The Landscaping Easement is a laudable public
      objective, but does not solve a problem that the development creates. Thus, the requirement that
      an easement be landscaped and dedicated cannot be a valid exaction.
                                                     Review
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Ed Green on July 15, 2013. A copy of
that request was sent via certified mail to Thieda Wellman, Layton City Recorder, at 437 North
Wasatch Drive, Layton, Utah 84041. The return information indicates that the City received the
Request on July 17, 2013.

                                                    Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Ed Green, received
                 by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, July 15, 2013.
     2.          Response submitted on behalf of Layton City by Gary Crane, Layton City Attorney,
                 received July 31, 2013.
     3.          Reply submitted by Mr. Green, received August 21, 2013.
     4.          Response from Layton City, received September 25, 2013.


                                                    Background
Green & Green, LC, is the owner and developer of approximately 60 acres located near 800
South and 1200 West in Layton. In 2004, Green & Green petitioned to have the property
annexed into the City, and an Annexation Agreement was signed in October of 2004. 1 In that
Agreement, the developer committed to complete various improvements along with a residential
subdivision, including road, water, sewer, and storm drain facilities. Specifically, the Agreement
required Green & Green to dedicate and construct a portion of 750 South as an arterial road. 2
The total width of the right-of-way was specified to be 84 feet wide, consisting of a 60-foot

1
  The document was entitled “Agreement for the Annexation and Development of Land Between Layton City and
Green & Green, L.C.”
2
  750 South is also designated “Layton Parkway Boulevard.” As an arterial road, it is designed to be the primary
traffic route through the nearby area, which is primarily residential. The road connects to I-15, and the City plans to
eventually connect it to a new highway proposed in western Davis County.

Advisory Opinion – Green/Layton City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 15, 2013 Page 2 of 11
roadway, with 5-foot sidewalks, 4 ½-foot park strips, and 2 ½-foot wide gutters on either side of
the roadway. 3

Green & Green proceeded to develop the subdivision, including the roadway. 4 They object to
paying the entire cost of 750 South, because as an arterial road it is intended to handle traffic
from throughout the City, and not just the traffic from the subdivision. They also feel that paying
transportation impact fees on top of the road construction costs is not fair or proportionate to the
impact created by the subdivision. The City notes that roads such as 750 South were not
included as part of the City’s transportation facilities, and so were not included in its impact fee
calculation. The City has indicated a willingness to share in the costs of 750 South, but there is
no formal agreement in place. 5

Green & Green also objects to the City’s requirement that a 5-foot wide landscape easement be
dedicated on each lot adjoining 750 South, between the sidewalk and the rear fence of each lot.6
This “Landscaped Easement” would be maintained by a homeowner’s association, and would be
outside the fenced area of each lot, but the land beneath the easement would be owned by each
individual lot owner. Moreover, the subdivision plats indicate utility easements on each lot,
outside the 5-foot landscape easement. 7

The City explains that the Landscape Easement is required by ordinance, and serves as “a buffer
to enhance the arterial streetscape and mitigate the impacts of arterial streets adjacent to the rear
or side of a lot.” LAYTON CITY MUNICIPAL CODE, § 19.16.090(2). The City also notes that the
landscaped area provides architectural relief between a solid fence or wall and the street, reduces
graffiti, and provides potential storage space for snow removed from sidewalks.8 The public
would have access to and use of the easement area, even though the landscaping would be
maintained by a Homeowners Association.

Green & Green feel that this is an improper exaction of their property by the City, and imposes
an unfair burden on them as developers, and the owners of the lots burdened by the Easement,
because the City required dedication of the Landscape Easement as a condition of subdivision

3
  The total width of the sidewalk, park strip, and gutter amounts to 12 feet. Since they would be installed on either
side of the roadway, the total width is 24 feet, which, when added to the 60 foot road width, results in an 84-foot
right-of-way.
4
  The subdivision was developed in phases over several years.
5
  Ed Green, of Green & Green, acknowledges that the City has discussed sharing the road construction costs. The
City states that it will revise its transportation impact fee analysis to include arterial roads in the future.
6
  The landscaping requirement moves the rear fence five feet into each lot. The subdivision plats include a
dedication of “certain strips designated . . . as open space/park and public utility and drainage easements . . ..” See
Subdivision plats for Robert’s Farm No. 6 and Robert’s Farm No. 8 (Public Dedication). The easement would
encumber each lot abutting 750 South, but the land would remain in the lot owner’s name, and would be included as
part of the lot area. None of the lots have frontage on 750 South, so the easement will encumber the rear yards.
7
  Utility easements are indicated along all boundaries of each lot. For the lots that adjoin 750 South, the utility
easements are placed along the interior boundary of the City’s landscape easement, further encumbering the lots.
Utility easements are common, and allow utilities to be installed to serve the properties, without interfering with
buildings.
8
  Letter from Gary Crane, Layton City Attorney, received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, July 31,
2013, p. 3.

Advisory Opinion – Green/Layton City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 15, 2013 Page 3 of 11
approval. The usable size of each lot that abuts 750 South has been reduced, and the public may
use the portion dedicated to the City. 9 The developers claim that the additional landscaping
increases the cost of the development by approximately $50,000.00. 10 The City argues that the
dedication is not an exaction, because it is required by ordinance, thus exempting the
requirement from “rough proportionality” analysis normally required of exactions. The City also
claims that the property owners would still own the land encumbered by the landscape easement,
and that the owners would still have use of that property. 11 The City stated that the landscape
easement is a validly imposed condition analogous to setback requirements to ensure
development in “an orderly, functional, and aesthetically pleasing manner.” 12

                                                     Analysis
           I. The Road Must be Dedicated and Constructed by the Developer in
              Accordance with the Annexation Agreement.

The 2004 Annexation Agreement obligates the Developer to dedicate to the City one half (42
feet) of an 84 foot right of way for the 750 South Corridor, and to construct the road: “The street
right-of-way dedication for 42 feet . . . along with construction of this street, will be required to
be constructed by the Owner.” 13 The Annexation Agreement also contains some provisions for
payback to the Developer of costs of constructing the street beyond those costs required to
directly service the Developer.

The Annexation Agreement appears to duly bind both parties. Green & Green objects to various
aspects of the project, including the requirement to dedicate and construct this road for primarily
public use, the uncertainty of the payback, inability to front his development on the road, paying
road impact fees, 14 etc. Indeed, many of the Developer’s objections would require further
analysis as potentially illegal exactions if required by the City outside of the Annexation
Agreement. However, the Annexation Agreement appears enforceable – entered into
voluntarily, 15 duly executed, with good and valuable consideration exchanged. There is no basis

9
  The developers also argue that the easement requirement increases the City’s right-of-way by 10 feet (five feet on
either side), over and above the 84-foot roadway agreed upon in the annexation agreement. The easement would be
for landscaping and would not be used as a walking trail or have other recreational amenities.
10
   This is evidently the cost of the landscaping, and does not reflect the value of the easement itself.
11
   The extent of the owner’s use (exclusive of the public’s) was not explained.
12
   Letter from Gary Crane, supra note 8, at 4.
13
   “Agreement for the Annexation and Development of Land Between Layton City and Green & Green, L.C.”
(October 25, 2004) at Art. IV, ¶ 5.
14 Green & Green were charged transportation impact fees in addition to their costs to build 750 South. They

suggested that the City’s reimbursement obligation could be met through impact fee credits, or payments from
impact fee funds. The City explained that arterial roads, such as 750 South, were not included in its capital facilities
plan. Because of this, the City could not use transportation impact fees to fund arterial streets. See UTAH CODE ANN.
§ 11-36a-602 (Impact fees may only be expended on public facilities identified in a capital facilities plan). If this is
indeed true, the City cannot use impact fee funds to reimburse Green & Green.
15
   The developers question whether the Annexation Agreement was voluntarily, based upon their inability to develop
without annexing and inability to meet certain obligations if they did not develop. Although there is no doubt that
these considerations highly motivated Green & Green to enter into the Annexation Agreement, they are not
indicative of a truly involuntary agreement.

Advisory Opinion – Green/Layton City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 15, 2013 Page 4 of 11
to disturb that agreement. Accordingly, the Developer must dedicate and construct its portion of
the right-of-way in accordance with the Agreement, and the City must meet its obligation for
reimbursement in accordance with the Agreement. Developer’s objections concerning
construction of the road presenting an unfair burden upon the Developer does not excuse the
Developer’s obligation to perform its obligations under the Annexation Agreement.

           II. The Landscape Easement is An Exaction, Which Must Satisfy Rough
               Proportionality Analysis.

           A. Rough Proportionality Analysis.

Local governments may require exactions in exchange for development approval, as long as each
exaction satisfies the rough proportionality analysis expressed in § 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code.
Exactions are a type of property taking, and the rough proportionality test “protects the Fifth
Amendment right to just compensation for property the government takes when owners apply for
land-use permits.” Koontz v. St. Johns River Water Management District, 133 S.Ct. 2586, 2594
(2013) (citations omitted). 16 The Takings Clause, found in the Fifth Amendment of the U.S.
Constitution, “provides that private property shall not ‘be taken for public use, without just
compensation.’” Lingle, 544 U.S. at 536 (quoting U.S. CONST. amend. V). 17 The Supreme
Court has emphasized that the Takings Clause “was designed to bar the Government from
forcing some people alone to bear public burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be
borne by the public as a whole.” Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960).

In 2005, the Utah Legislature enacted § 10-9a-508 of the Utah Code, adopting the “rough
proportionality” test which governs how cities impose exactions on new development:

           (1) A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed
           in a land use application provided that:
           (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
           exaction; and
           (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
           impact of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-508(1). 18 The Utah Supreme Court noted that the language of this
statute was borrowed directly from the U.S. Supreme Court analyses in Nollan v. California
Coastal Commission, 483 U.S. 825 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994). See
B.A.M. I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 41, 128 P.3d at 1170. In those two landmark cases, the U.S. Supreme
Court promulgated rules for determining when an exaction may be validly imposed under the

16
   “[A] unit of government may not condition the approval of a land-use permit on the owner’s relinquishment of
portion of his property unless there is a ‘nexus’ and ‘rough proportionality’ between government’s demand and the
effects of the proposed land use.” Koontz, 133 S.Ct. at 2591.
17
   The Takings Clause of the Federal Constitution is applicable to state actions (including local subdivisions of
states) by the language of the Fourteenth Amendment. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U.S. 226 (1897).
The Utah Constitution provides similar protection: “Private property shall not be taken or damaged for public use,
without just compensation.” UTAH CONST., art I, § 22.
18
   There is a corresponding statute applicable to counties found at § 17-27a-509 of the Utah Code.

Advisory Opinion – Green/Layton City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 15, 2013 Page 5 of 11
federal constitution’s Takings Clause. This has come to be known as the Nollan/Dolan “rough
proportionality” test, and that two-part analysis was codified in § 10-9a-508.

The first inquiry in the analysis is determining whether there is an essential link between a
legitimate governmental interest and the required exaction. This represents the “Nollan” part of
the analysis, and is perhaps best understood by reviewing the exaction at issue in that case. The
Nollans owned a beachfront lot in Ventura County, California. The lot extended to the high-
water mark on the beach. They sought approval to tear down a small bungalow on the lot, and
build a new, larger home. The California Coastal Commission, which had jurisdiction over
coastal areas, imposed a condition on its approval that the Nollans dedicate a public easement
across the rear of their lot. The Commission’s justification for the easement was that the new
home would block the view of the ocean (from the front of the lot), “prevent[ing] the public
psychologically from realizing a stretch of coastline exists nearby that they have every right to
visit.” Nollan, 483 U.S. at 828-29 (internal quotations and alterations omitted). The Commission
felt that the new home would “burden the public’s ability to traverse to and along the
shorefront.” Id., 483 U.S. at 829.

The Supreme Court criticized the Commission’s requirement as an “out-and-out plan of
extortion.” Id., 483 U.S. at 837. “The Commission could not explain how requiring the Nollans
to allow the public access to the back of their property would help people in front see past the
Nollan’s bigger home to the beach beyond, or how allowing more access to the beach would
reduce congestion.” Town of Flower Mound v. Stafford Estates, LTD., 135 S.W.3d 620, 632
(Tex. 2004) (emphasis in original). 19 In other words, there was no essential link between the
required access easement across the rear of the lot and the government’s interest in guaranteeing
the public’s view from the front of the lot.

The other half of the test was established by the Dolan decision, which reviewed two required
dedications: An easement along a creek for flood control, and property for bike path along a
roadway. The Supreme Court acknowledged that “[t]he connections between a greenway
dedication and flood control, and between a bicycle path and traffic control, were ‘obvious.’”
Flower Mound, 635 S.W.3d at 633 (discussing Dolan, 512 U.S. at 387-88). Thus, the
requirements satisfied Nollan’s “essential link” test. However, the Court noted that the analysis
also required consideration of “whether the degree of the exactions demanded by the city’s
permit conditions [bore] the required relationship to the projected impact of petitioner’s proposed
development.” Dolan, 512 U.S. at 388. The Court concluded that a local government “must
make some sort of individualized determination that the required dedication is related both in
nature and extent to the impact of the proposed development.” Id., 512 U.S. at 391. The term
“rough proportionality” was used to describe the acceptable relationship between the exaction
and the development’s impact. 20

19
   In Flower Mound, the Texas Supreme Court reviewed the facts in both Nollan and Dolan, as part of their review
of an exaction imposed by a local ordinance.
20
   The Court adopted the “reasonable relationship” approach used by the Utah Supreme Court in Call v. West Jordan,
606 P.2d 217 (Utah 1979) (A required dedication “should have some reasonable relationship to the needs created by
the subdivision.”); see Dolan, 512 U.S. at 390-91. However, the U.S. Supreme Court chose the term “rough
proportionality” to designate the analysis.

Advisory Opinion – Green/Layton City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 15, 2013 Page 6 of 11
The Utah Supreme Court further developed “rough proportionality” analysis in B.A.M.
Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2008 UT 74, 196 P.3d 601 (“BAM II”), which was the
second appeal stemming from the same development project at issue in the earlier decision.
BAM II broke the Dolan rough proportionality relationship into “two aspects: first, the exaction
and impact must be related in nature; second, they must be related in extent.” BAM II, 2008 UT
74, ¶ 9, 196 P.3d at 603. The “nature” aspect focuses on the relationship between the purported
impact and proposed exaction. The court explained that the approach should be expressed “in
terms of a solution and a problem . . . . [T]he impact is the problem, or the burden which the
community will bear because of the development. The exaction should address the problem. If
it does, then the nature component has been satisfied.” Id., 2008 UT 74, ¶ 10, 196 P.3d at 603-
04. 21

The “extent” aspect of the rough proportionality analysis measures the impact against the
proposed exaction in terms of cost:

           The most appropriate measure is cost—specifically, the cost of the exaction and
           the impact to the developer and the municipality, respectively. The impact of the
           development can be measured as the cost to the municipality of assuaging the
           impact. Likewise, the exaction can be measured as the value of the land to be
           dedicated by the developer at the time of the exaction.

Id., 2008 UT 74, ¶ 11, 196 P.3d at 604. The court continued by holding that “roughly
proportional” means “roughly equivalent.” “The Dolan analysis, properly applied, asks whether
the imposition on the community of a proposed development is roughly equal to the cost being
exacted to offset it.” Id., 2008 UT 74, ¶ 14, 196 P.3d at 604. Thus, in order to be valid, the cost
of an exaction must be roughly equivalent to the cost that a local government would incur to
address (or “assuage”) the impact attributable to the new development.

In the final BAM decision, the court elaborated on the how the costs to the local government
should be determined. “A proper rough-proportionality analysis must . . . consider the exaction’s
purpose to define the scope of the relevant governmental costs.” B.A.M. Development, LLC v.
Salt Lake County, 2012 UT 26, ¶ 27, 282 P.3d 41, 47 (“BAM III”). This implies that establishing
the government’s cost to address the impact is more complicated than simply the cost of the
required project. Furthermore, the burden on the development must reflect the fair market value
of the property being exacted. Id., 2012 UT 26, ¶ 20, 232 P.3d at 45-46. 22




21
   See also B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2012 UT 26, ¶ 26, 282 P.3d 41, 47 (“BAM III”) (“[N]ot
only must the nature of an exaction relate to government purpose or need (in that the exaction must alleviate the
burdens imposed on infrastructure by the development), but the extent of the exaction must also be roughly
proportional to the government’s need for infrastructure improvements created by the development.”) (emphasis in
original).
22
   See also BAM II, 2008 UT 74, ¶ 11, 196 P.3d at 604. It stands to reason that the costs would also include
severance damages to property remaining after a required exaction is dedicated.

Advisory Opinion – Green/Layton City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 15, 2013 Page 7 of 11
           B. The Landscape Easement is an Exaction.

The Landscape Easement is an exaction, which must satisfy rough proportionality analysis in
order to be valid. “A development exaction is a government-mandated contribution of property
imposed as a condition of approving a developer’s project.” B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt
Lake County, 2012 UT 26, ¶ 16, 282 P.3d 41, 45. “Development exactions may take the form of:
(1) mandatory dedications of land . . . (2) fees-in-lieu of mandatory dedication, (3) water or
sewage connection fees and (4) impact fees” Salt Lake County v. Board of Education, 808 P.2d
1056, 1058 (Utah 1991)(citations omitted). 23

The City’s Landscaping Easement is a government mandated contribution of property imposed
as a condition if approval. The City by ordinance required Green & Green to develop and
dedicate the Landscape Easement for the purposes of beautifying an arterial roadway. The
easement is a property interest, and the City required it as a condition of approving the
subdivision. The easement area will be accessible by the public, and its use is intended to benefit
the public. 24 Even though the underlying property will be privately owned, the individual lot
owners may not use that property for anything other than landscaping. Lot owners must
relinquish control of the Landscape Easement, and may not exclude others from entering and
using that portion of the property, depriving the owners of “perhaps the most fundamental of all
property interests” Lingle v. Chevron, USA, 544 U.S. 528, 539 (2005). Thus the Landscaping
easement is a dedication to the public and an exaction imposed by the City. In order to be valid,
it must satisfy “rough proportionality” analysis.

The Landscape Easement must satisfy “rough proportionality” analysis regardless of whether it
was imposed by a generally applicable ordinance or as part of an individualized administrative
approval. The City argues that the “rough proportionality’ analysis established by the U.S.
Supreme Court does not apply to exactions mandated by legislation, but only to those imposed
“administratively” or as part of the approval process. However, the Utah Supreme Court has
concluded that exactions imposed by ordinance should be treated no differently than those
imposed administratively.

The court was faced with that very question in the first BAM decision. 25 In the first installment of
that epic series of cases, the exaction in question was required by a local ordinance. After it
discussed the Nollan/Dolan analysis for exaction, the court recognized that a debate had arisen
over whether the analysis applied to exactions imposed by legislative act. B.A.M. Development,
LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 42, 128 P.3d 1161, 1170 (“BAM I”). The court also
observed that while the BAM I appeal was pending, the Utah Legislature adopted the




23
   See also Koontz v. St. Johns River Water Management District, 133 S.Ct. 2586 (2013) (Dedication of on-site
easement and monetary contribution for off-site improvements determined to be exactions).
24
   It is recognized that the public will probably not be directly occupying the Landscape Easement for recreation or
other similar uses, but the City states that the area may be used for snow storage, and is justified to enhance the
appearance of the arterial road.
25
   B.A.M. Development v. Salt Lake County, 2006 UT 2, 128 P.3d 1161 (“BAM I”).

Advisory Opinion – Green/Layton City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 15, 2013 Page 8 of 11
Nollan/Dolan rough proportionality analysis into the Utah Code, and that the test was applicable
to all exactions. 26 The court concluded that it should apply the same test to the BAM exaction:

           Knowing as we do that the legislature intended to apply the rough proportionality
           test to all exactions, irrespective of their source, commencing on the effective date
           of section 17-27a-507, we are hard pressed to find a reason to assume that the
           legislative view of the proper scope of the rough proportionality test would have
           been different before section 17-27a-507 went into effect.

BAM I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 46, 128 P.3d at 1170 (emphasis in original). Since the City’s Landscape
Easement requirement was imposed well after the rough proportionality test was codified by the
Utah Legislature, there is no question that the analysis applies. 27

The property owners’ loss of control and inability to exclude others from the Landscape
Easement distinguishes the Landscape Easement from setbacks and utility easements commonly
imposed by ordinance on building lots. 28 Property owners still enjoy a broad range of uses in
setbacks and utility easements, including patios, landscaping, gardens, and even some structures
like sheds. 29 More importantly, a property owner may exclude others from a setback area, and
may exert a great deal of control over access to a utility easement. Dedication of property to the
public is a hallmark of exactions. A setback requirement does not dedicate property for the use
by the public. Thus, a distinction exists between a requirement to dedicate an easement to the
public for landscaping and a setback requirement.

           C. Applying Rough Proportionality Analysis to The Landscape Easement

The Landscape Easement is an exaction, and must satisfy rough proportionality analysis to be
valid. The City justifies the easement on aesthetic grounds, arguing that it “provides architectural
relief” and a “buffer between the sidewalk and the fence.” 30 Promoting community aesthetics is

26
   BAM I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 46, 128 P.3d at 1170. In 2005, the rough proportionality test was codified at sections 10-9a-
508 and 17-27a-507 of the Utah Code.
27
   The City argues that because it was imposed by a legislative act, the Landscape Easement requirement should be
subject to general takings analysis, which has more lenient scrutiny. As support, the City cites the U.S. Supreme
Court’s decision in Lingle v. Chevron, USA, 544 U.S. 528 (2005). However, the main thrust of the Lingle decision
was the Court’s abandonment of the theory that a regulation constitutes a taking if it does not “substantially
advance” a legitimate government interest. See Lingle, 544 U.S. at 544-45. The Court discussed the impact its
decision had on the Nollan and Dolan cases and held that abandoning the “substantially advances” theory “should
not be read to disturb these precedents.” Lingle, 544 U.S. at 548. There is thus no reason to conclude that the Lingle
decision excuses a legislatively imposed exaction from rough proportionality analysis. In addition, even if the more
lenient general takings analysis would be acceptable under the Federal Takings Clause, the Utah Code’s requirement
that all exactions satisfy rough proportionality analysis also safeguards protections guaranteed to property owners by
the Utah Constitution. See UTAH CONST. art. I, § 22; see also BAM I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 31, 128 P.3d at 1168. (“The Utah
Constitution reinforces the protection of private property against uncompensated governmental takings . . ..”).
28
   Based on the subdivision plat, utility easements are not included in the Landscape Easement. The landscaped
portion may be included in a required setback, but only if the easement is at least 10 feet wide. LAYTON CITY
MUNICIPAL CODE, § 19.16.090(2)(c).
29
   Generally, homes cannot be built in setbacks or utility easements, but other smaller structures are sometimes
allowed. If access to an underground utility is needed, the homeowner may be responsible to remove the structure.
30
   Gary Crane Letter, supra note 8, at 3.

Advisory Opinion – Green/Layton City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 15, 2013 Page 9 of 11
a valid government interest. “The purposes of [Title 10, chapter 9a] are to provide for the health,
safety, and welfare, and promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order,
comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of each municipality . . ..” UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-
102(1)(emphasis added). 31 Moreover, there is an essential link between the City’s legitimate
interest in promoting the aesthetics of its roadways and its requirement that the developer
dedicate a landscaped strip along an arterial roadway. The exaction therefore satisfies the first
part of the rough proportionality test.

Turning to the next aspect, it does not appear that the Landscape Easement is a “solution” to a
“problem” caused Green & Green’s subdivision. The City hopes to improve the aesthetics and
appearance of the community, which is a worthy goal. 32 However, Green & Green’s subdivision
did not cause the aesthetic “problem” the City hopes to address. The goal of improving the
appearance of arterial roads, and the proposed means to accomplish that goal exist with or
without the Green & Green residential development. In other words, while the City’s objective to
improve the appearance of its streets is laudable, it is not necessitated because a residential
subdivision is being developed. The requirement is not tied to the size or nature of the
subdivision—that is, its impact—but is imposed simply because of its location. 33 The only
reason this subdivision is required to dedicate the Landscape Easement is because some of its
lots happen to border on an arterial road. If the same subdivision were built only one block
away, the Easement would not be required. Moreover, if the subdivision had twice as many
homes, but still had the same number of lots bordering the arterial road, the Landscape Easement
would be unchanged. The Green & Green subdivision thus does not create a burden which the
community will bear. See BAM II, 2008 UT 74, ¶ 10, 196 P.3d at 603-04. The Landscape
Easement is not roughly proportionate in nature to the impact attributable to the development,
and so cannot be a valid exaction. 34

This conclusion is consistent with the Utah Supreme Court’s analysis in BAM III, which requires
a close connection between the exaction and an impact on public infrastructure: “[T]he exaction
must alleviate the burdens imposed on infrastructure by the development.” BAM III, 2012 UT
26, ¶ 26, 282 P.3d at 47. The subdivision did not burden the City’s aesthetics, because there is no
such thing as an “aesthetic infrastructure.” 35 Instead, the City’s goal to improve streetscapes led


31
   Title 10, chapter 9a is the Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act (MLUDMA).
32
   In the strictest sense, any development changes the appearance of a community, and thus “impacts” aesthetics.
However, aesthetics is a fluid term, which is difficult to define. It is also difficult to measure a development’s
impact on aesthetics, because the concept is highly subjective. What is appropriate for one City would not work in
another, and what is currently desired and promoted may change with the whims of fashion or with the next election.
33
   A five-foot landscaped easement is required for any residential subdivision bordering on an arterial street.
LAYTON CITY MUNICIPAL CODE, § 19.16.090(2)(b).
34
   Because this Opinion concludes that the Landscape Easement is not proportionate in nature, it is not necessary to
compare the developer’s expense to comply with the Landscape Easement with the City’s cost to assuage the
subdivision’s impact.
35
   To illustrate, if 750 South were already developed with landscaping along either side of the roadway, the Green &
Green subdivision would not change the required level of landscaping. The “infrastructure” (for lack of a better
word) would not be impacted. Instead, the subdivision would probably be laid out alongside the landscaped area,
with no dedication for a landscape easement. Since the subdivision would not create the need to expand a landscape
“infrastructure,” it follows that a requirement that it build one would be an improper exaction. A proper exaction

Advisory Opinion – Green/Layton City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 15, 2013 Page 10 of 11
it to require the Easement. In pursuit of its goal to improve aesthetics, the City could have
required setbacks, landscaping on private yards and park strips, and even design elements on
buildings. 36 In addition, the City could acquire easements or rights-of-way and install
landscaping along arterial roads as public improvements. It cannot require the developer alone
to bear the cost of this improvement, because, in all fairness and justice, it ought to be borne by
the public. See Armstrong, 364 U.S. at 49.

                                                   Conclusion
“We are in danger of forgetting,” warned Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, “that a strong public
desire to improve the public condition is not enough to warrant achieving the desire by a shorter
cut than the constitutional way of paying for the change.” See Pennsylvania Coal Co. v. Mahon,
260 U.S. 393, 416 (1922). The City’s desire to improve the appearance of its streets is not
enough to warrant its requirement that Green & Green improve and dedicate the Landscape
Easement without payment. Local governments may require exactions of developers, but only if
a nexus and rough proportionality exist between government’s demand and the effects of the
proposed land use. Exactions imposed through a legislative act are subject to the same analysis
as exactions imposed through an administrative decision.

A valid exaction must be roughly proportionate in nature to the impact attributed to new
development. The Utah Supreme Court has interpreted this requirement to mean that the
exaction should address or alleviate a burden the community will bear because of the
development. Promoting a community goal, such as improving aesthetics, is not a burden
created by development. Instead, it is an aspiration that exists whether there is new development
or not. Aesthetic improvement, while a laudable goal, is simply not tied to a burden caused by
new development, and so a required dedication could not satisfy rough proportionality analysis.
The Landscape Easement requirement is therefore not a valid exaction.

The Developer, however, is obligated by the Annexation Agreement to dedicate and construct the
road. The Developer must do so under the terms of the Agreement.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

must be roughly proportionate to the impact imposed on public infrastructure, not the quality of the service being
provided.
   That is why this conclusion would not apply to an exaction for a park, even though parks also contribute to a
community’s aesthetics. A park is a service with a defined infrastructure provided by a local government. The
service level for parks is not measured in aesthetic values, but is usually measured in terms of area—infrastructure—
such as the number of acres per 1,000 people. In like manner, the service level for roads is not measured in how
smoothly traffic flows, but in terms of infrastructure, or miles of roadways; and the service level of a water system is
not measured by the quality of the water, but by the wells, treatment facilities, and pipes that comprise the system.
36
   As long as such requirements are reasonable, and are intended to promote the health, safety, and welfare of the
City, they are probably valid.

Advisory Opinion – Green/Layton City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 15, 2013 Page 11 of 11
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in UTAH CODE § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, a court retains discretion regarding whether to award them.
Thus, the attorney fees provisions, like the entire Advisory Opinion process, should be
viewed as a process for dispute resolution.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Thieda Wellman
              City Recorder
              City of Layton
              437 North Wasatch Drive
              Layton, UT 84041

On this ___________ Day of November, 2013, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
