                     Advisory Opinion #160
                               Parties: Boyer Dixie, L.C., Washington City
                                          Issued: July 10, 2015

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES

                                                 Impact Fees

Charter schools are public schools under Utah law and enjoy unique treatment under the Impact
Fee Act. Impact fees can only be charged to schools when development of the school directly
results in the need for additional system improvements. Washington City must give full effect to
these provisions of the Act.

Impact fees are based upon impact. Impacts arise when development activity takes place.
Subdivision of land alone is not development activity under the Act, and does not create the
impacts that impact fees assuage. Charging an impact fee at the time of subdivision, without
consideration of the actual impacts from development activity, is impermissible under the Impact
Fee Act.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN

 SPENCER J. COX
Lieutenant Governor




                                        ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:              Boyer Dixie, L.C. / Dixie Montessori Academy

      Local Government Entity:                    Washington City

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:        Boyer Dixie, L.C.

      Type of Property:                           Charter School

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:              July 10, 2015

      Opinion Authored By:                        Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
                                                  Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                                  Issues
      Has Washington City properly calculated and imposed impact fees upon the development of the
      Dixie Montessori Academy?



                                   Summary of Advisory Opinion
      Washington City’s impact fee charges to the Dixie Montessori Academy do not comply with the
      Impact Fee Act. Charter schools are public schools under Utah law and enjoy unique treatment
      under the Impact Fee Act. Impact fees can only be charged to schools when development of the
      school directly results in the need for additional system improvements. Washington City must give
      full effect to these provisions of the Act.

      Moreover, impact fees must be based upon impact. Under the Impact Fee Act, impacts arise when
      development activity takes place. Subdivision of land alone is not development activity under the
      Act, and does not create the impacts that impact fees assuage. Charging an impact fee at the time
      of subdivision, without consideration of the actual impacts from development activity, is
      impermissible under the Impact Fee Act.
                                                      Review
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205. An
advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or other
specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such a
review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Robert A. McConnell on behalf of Boyer
Dixie, L.C. on February 27, 2015. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Danice B.
Bullock, City Recorder of Washington City, at 111 North 100 East, Washington, Utah. 84780. The
City received that copy on March 4, 2015.

                                                     Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Boyer Dixie, L.C.,
                 received February 27, 2015.1
     2.          The Utah Impact Fees Act, UTAH CODE § 11-36a-101 et seq.

                                                    Background
Boyer Dixie is the owner and developer of approximately 30.261 acres of land in Washington City,
Utah. On a portion of that land, Boyer Dixie has developed the Dixie Montessori Academy, a
charter school approved by the Utah State Board of Education. To develop the school site, Boyer
Dixie subdivided the parcel into two lots, one of approximately 10 acres, and a second lot
containing the balance. The Dixie Montessori Academy has been constructed upon the 10 acre site
and is currently serving students. The remaining property is undeveloped.



1
 The policy and practice of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, and indeed the preference, is to invite and
encourage all interested parties to respond to a request for Advisory Opinion. However, the OPRO lacks the ability to
require that any party participate. Washington City received multiple invitations to submit materials and arguments in
support of its position, but the City did not do so.

The requesting party is entitled to receive its Advisory Opinion whether other parties contribute or not, so this Office
must issue its opinion without the benefit of the City’s participation. Lack of participation does not, however, result
in a default decision automatically favoring the requesting party. Full efforts are made, based upon the factual
information provided, to give credit to the unresponsive party, provide an accurate and unbiased opinion, and decide
the matter on its merits.

Advisory Opinion – Boyer Dixie LC/Washington City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 10, 2015 Page 2 of 7
In connection with the development of the Dixie Montessori Academy, Washington City levied the
following impact fees upon Boyer Dixie:

                       Electrical Impact Fee                    $48,065.00
                       Wastewater Treatment Impact Fee           $1,948.00
                       Wastewater Impact Fee                     $1,912.35
                       Streets and Roadways Impact Fee         $634,926.00
                       Water Impact Fee                          $3,499.65
                       Storm Water Impact Fee                  $117,277.90


Boyer Dixie believes that several of these impact fees are illegal and excessive under the Impact
Fee Act. First, Boyer Dixie argues that the Streets and Roadways Impact Fee is excessive because
the City has imposed the fee according to the City’s schedule for private schools rather than for
public schools. According to Boyer Dixie, the Dixie Montessori Academy is a public school, and
assessment as a public school would result in a reduction of the Streets and Roadways Impact Fee
by nearly half.

Boyer Dixie further believes that the Streets and Roadways Impact Fee is excessive because the
development of the school does not necessitate the installation of new streets and roadways
infrastructure. They argue that under the Impact Fee Act, cities may not charge impact fees to
schools unless the construction of the school necessitates the new infrastructure.

And finally, Boyer Dixie objects to the imposed Storm Water Impact Fee. Boyer Dixie argues that
although it has developed the school site on the smaller lot, it has been wrongly charged storm
water impact fees at the time of subdivision application, which has deprived it of an opportunity
to demonstrate that its development plan has not impacted the City’s storm drain infrastructure.

                                                    Analysis
           I.    Charter Schools are Public Schools under Utah Law, Including for the
           Imposition of Impact Fees

Boyer Dixie’s first issue concerns whether the Dixie Montessori Academy is a public or private
school for purposes of charging impact fees. It appears that Washington City’s impact fee schedule
differentiates between public schools and private schools. Boyer Dixie asserts that the impact fees
have been charged according to the private school schedule. Were it charged under the public
school schedule, the impact fees would be significantly lower.

Utah law is unequivocal that approved charter schools are public schools. UTAH CODE § 53A-1a-
503.5 (“Charter schools are: (a) considered to be public schools within the state's public education
system.”) This statute contains no qualifications limiting its applicability or purpose including the
oft seen qualifier “For purposes of this section.” Thus by the plain language of the Utah Code,
approved charter schools are public schools in Utah.



Advisory Opinion – Boyer Dixie LC/Washington City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 10, 2015 Page 3 of 7
Nothing can be found to justify a limited application or different conclusion for purposes of impact
fees, or to permit a local jurisdiction to adopt its own definition of charter schools in its impact fee
documents. The Utah Impact Fee Act, UTAH CODE §§ 11-36a-101 et seq., contains multiple
provisions applicable to schools. See, e.g., UTAH CODE §§ 11-36a-202(2), -302(4). In every single
instance where schools are mentioned in the Impact Fee Act, charter schools are also mentioned
and placed in exactly the same status as public schools. In fact, UTAH CODE § 11-36a-403(2)
provides that, for purposes of exemption, public schools and charter schools must be treated
identically: “An impact fee enactment that provides an impact fee exemption for development
activity attributable to a school district or charter school shall allow either a school district or a
charter school to qualify for the exemption on the same basis.”

Accordingly, charter schools are public schools under Utah law, including for the imposition of
impact fees. A charter school thus cannot be charged an impact fee under a schedule different from
that charged to a public school.

           II.   Washington City May Only Impose Impact Fees upon the Dixie
           Montessori Academy for New Infrastructure Directly Resulting from its
           Development

Boyer Dixie next contends that it has been inappropriately charged Streets and Roadways Impact
Fees. Boyer Dixie contends that its school has been built at the end of an existing and improved
road, and that the new school has not necessitated construction of new roads or other transportation
public facilities. Thus, they argue, the Impact Fee Act prohibits Washington City from charging
Streets and Roadways Impact Fees.

Roadway facilities are permissible public facilities for which impact fees can be imposed. UTAH
CODE § 11-36a-102(16)(e). As always, the ability to charge impact fees is a question of impact.
UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(8)(a). Development activity will have an impact upon the public
infrastructure, and that impact causes the need for new facilities. The Developer may then pay
impact fees as its share of the cost for those facilities. For example, the developer of a shopping
mall will pay road impact fees. Those fees provide the developer’s share of the new road facilities
needed because of increased traffic caused by the mall, and thus assuage the impact the shopping
mall creates. Often those impact fees will pay for preexisting infrastructure improvements some
distance from the shopping mall, but nonetheless “reasonably related” to the new development
activity, UTAH CODE § 11-36a-304(1)(d)(ii). The developer thus relieves the impact on a system-
wide basis. This occurs frequently and is permissible under the Impact Fee Act. See UTAH CODE
§§ 11-36a-102(21) (“‘System improvements’ means: (i) existing public facilities that are: . . . (B)
designed to provide services to service areas within the community at large; and (ii) future public
facilities . . . intended to provide services to service areas within the community at large.”). This
allows a local government to prioritize its infrastructure needs. So long as a development does not
pay for more than its own impact, and the improvements are reasonably related to the development
activity, it is normally unnecessary that the public improvements be a direct result of the
development activity that caused the impact.




Advisory Opinion – Boyer Dixie LC/Washington City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 10, 2015 Page 4 of 7
Schools and charter schools, however, enjoy different treatment under the Impact Fee Act. The Act
expressly provides that impact fees to schools and charter schools arise only for facilities that are
a direct result from the school’s development activity. UTAH CODE § 11-36a-202(2)(a)(ii) states
that:

           Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a political subdivision or
           private entity may not impose an impact fee:
           ....
           (iii)   on a school district or charter school unless:
                   (A)     the development resulting from the school district's or charter
           school's development activity directly results in a need for additional system
           improvements for which the impact fee is imposed; and
                   (B)     the impact fee is calculated to cover only the school district's or
           charter school's proportionate share of the cost of those additional system
           improvements.

According to this section, a local government cannot impose an impact fee on a charter school,
unless the development of that school directly results in the need for additional system
improvements. And the fee charged is limited to the proportionate share of those additional
improvements. Statutes and ordinances must be construed so that “all parts thereof [are] relevant
and meaningful.” Perrine v. Kennecott Mining Corp., 911 P.2d 1290, 1292 (Utah 1996).
Furthermore, we must presume “that each term included in the ordinance was used advisedly.”
Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98, ¶30. The word directly indicates that the need for new
system improvements must arise as a direct result of construction of the school. Improvements that
arise indirectly or out of some other local need cannot be the basis for the impact fees to schools.
Moreover, the word additional indicates that the new infrastructure must not previously exist. In
other words, a local government may only charge impact fees to schools when the development of
the school causes a direct need for new infrastructure – i.e. but for the school was being built, the
infrastructure would not be necessary.

The specific street and roadway public facilities for which Washington City imposes impact fees
are unknown. Nevertheless, Boyer Dixie contends that the development of the school has not
directly necessitated the construction of any additional street and sidewalk improvements. Under
Utah law, Washington City may only charge impact fees for development of the Dixie Montessori
Academy to the extent that the Academy has directly necessitated additional public improvements.
If it has not, the impact fees violate the act.

           III.  Subdivision of Land Alone Does Not Create the Impact Necessary to
           Impose Impact Fees

Finally, Boyer Dixie contends that is has been inappropriately charged a storm water impact fee
and a habitat conservation impact fee. Boyer Dixie claims that the City would not process its
subdivision application until those fees were paid. They argue that a subdivision application does
not constitute development activity under the Impact Fee Act. Boyer Dixie thus had no opportunity
to show that the impacts of their development should result in a different fee calculation.

Advisory Opinion – Boyer Dixie LC/Washington City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 10, 2015 Page 5 of 7
An impact fee is “a payment of money imposed upon new development activity as a condition of
development approval to mitigate the impact of the new development on public infrastructure.”
UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(8). Under this definition, an impact fee is imposed upon “development
activity.” “Development activity” is defined in the Act as “any construction or expansion of a
building, structure, or use, any change in use of a building or structure, or any changes in the use
of land that creates additional demand and need for public facilities.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(3).
Thus, for purposes of the Act and in order to charge impact fees, physical construction to a building
or changes in use—changes that create an additional demand for public facilities—must take place.

Subdivision of land alone changes the legal status of property, but it does not by itself change the
physical characteristics of the land nor change the demand to public services or facilities. For
example, after subdivision, the need to manage storm water runoff does not change. Storm water
runoff need only be managed after construction occurs that reduces the ability of water to permeate
the soil. Subdivision itself does not grant a property owner any special entitlement to develop
property, nor is property development necessary after subdivision of land. Actual construction and
development upon the subdivided land still must follow statutory procedures and standards, and
those are the changes that create an impact upon the land.

The purpose of impact fees is to address those impacts. As discussed above, a city cannot charge
impact fees unless there is an impact. Subdivision of land alone does not fit the definition of
development activity under the Impact Fee Act. Development activity is defined as construction,
use, or other changes to the physical characteristics of the land that creates that impact.
Development activity is necessary in order to impose impact fees.

The subdivision of land will frequently occur as part of an overall development scheme, and at the
time of subdivision, anticipated construction activity will be planned and known. However,
subdivision of land is also possible and permissible without a plan or intent to undertake any
development activity upon land. Impact fees are a product of impacts. The appropriateness of
impact fees and the amount to be charged cannot be known until the impact of the development
activity is known.

Impact fees cannot be slavishly charged according to a set schedule and formula. Under the Act,
specific circumstances regarding the development and its impact must be taken into consideration
when impact fees are imposed. See, e.g., UTAH CODE § 11-36a-402. A property owner, and in
particular a school or charter school, is entitled to have the impact fees reviewed for fairness and
proportionality to the impact created. UTAH CODE § 11-36a-402(1)(c):

           A local political subdivision . . . shall ensure . . . that an impact fee enactment
           contains:
           ....
           (c) a provision authorizing the local political subdivision . . . to adjust the standard
           impact fee at the time the fee is charged to:
           (i) respond to: . . . (B) a request for a prompt and individualized impact fee review
           for the development activity of the state, a school district, or a charter school and

Advisory Opinion – Boyer Dixie LC/Washington City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 10, 2015 Page 6 of 7
           an offset or credit for a public facility for which an impact fee has been or will be
           collected; and
           (ii)    ensure that the impact fees are imposed fairly. . . .

Thus, in order to determine whether impact fees are appropriate, the development activity must at
least be anticipated, and under the Act the developer must have the opportunity to obtain an
individualized review of the fee in light of the anticipated development activity. Imposing an
impact fee at the time of subdivision, without knowing the specifics of the development activity,
is contrary to the plain provisions of the Impact Fee Act.

                                                    Conclusion
Schools and charter schools enjoy special treatment under the Impact Fee Act. A local government
cannot simply charge schools and charter schools the same impact fees that it charges other
development activity. Charter schools are public schools in Utah, and local governments may only
charge impact fees to charter schools for infrastructure that arises as a direct result of the
construction of the charter school. Boyer Dixie claims that its school has necessitated no new
infrastructure. If so, Washington City cannot charge impact fees under the Act.

Moreover, impact fees may only be charged when there are impacts. Impacts arise from
development activity. Subdividing land alone is not development activity as defined in the Act.
Thus, Washington City may not charge impact fees to Boyer Dixie at the time of subdivision unless
development activities resulting in impacts to the land are shown.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Boyer Dixie LC/Washington City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 10, 2015 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:


This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not constitute
legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of
Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may not
reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
