                     Advisory Opinion #161
                              Parties: Kirk & Paul Chappell; Town of Lyman
                                           Issued: August 25, 2015

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                Entitlement to Application Approval (Vesting)

Land use approvals turn on compliance with the ordinances of the government
entity. Government entities may not relinquish or surrender their authority to
regulate or approve land uses and development to third parties. Where local
ordinances are satisfied, the local government must approve, and cannot deny
based upon the dictates of a third party.




                                                DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each
Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was
prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes
or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide
general guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be
considered legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current
laws.




                     The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                                  (801) 530-6391
                     Utah Department of Commerce                                                 1-877-882-4662
                     PO Box 146702                                                           Fax: (801) 530-6338
                     160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                     www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                     Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                         propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 SPENCER J. COX           FRANCINE A. GIANI       BRENT N. BATEMAN
Lieutenant Governor       Executive Director      Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




                                               ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                   Kirk Chappell

      Local Government Entity:                         Town of Lyman

      Property Owner:                                  Kirk and Paul Chappell

      Type of Property:                                Residence

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                   August 25, 2015

      Opinion Authored By:                             Elliot R. Lawrence
                                                       Brent N. Bateman
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                                       Issues
      May a Town condition land use approvals upon compliance with the requirements of a third-
      party water company?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
      Land use approvals turn on compliance with the ordinances of the government entity.
      Government entities may not relinquish or surrender their authority to regulate or approve land
      uses and development to third parties. Where local ordinances are satisfied, the local government
      must approve, and cannot deny based upon the dictates of a third party.

                                                     Review

      A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
      decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
      An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
      administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Kirk Chappell, on April 24, 2015. A copy
of that request was sent via certified mail to the Town of Lyman, at 101 South Center Street,
Lyman, Utah. According to the return receipt, the Town received the Request on April 30, 2015.

                                                 Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Kirk Chappell,
                 received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman on April 24, 2015.
     2.          Email from Paul Chappell, property owner, received on June 30, 2015.
     3.          Response from David L. Church, Attorney for the Town of Lyman, received on July
                 9, 2015.
     4.          Reply submitted by Emily Lewis, Attorney for Kirk Chappell, with attachments,
                 received on July 22, 2015.

                                                 Background
Kirk and Paul Chappell own a parcel in Lyman, Utah. Several years ago, the Chappells began
construction on an accessory dwelling on the parcel, but different factors delayed completion of
the building. In 2014, Kirk Chappell sought approval from the Town to finally complete the
building. Mr. Chappell states that he has experienced numerous delays from the Town, and has
not received the necessary approvals.

The Town states that it will approve the accessory dwelling, and that the delays have resulted
from the Chappell’s disputes with the Lyman Water System, a non-profit mutual water
corporation that provides the culinary water for the Town. The Lyman Water System provides
culinary water service to shareholders in the system or their lessees. In May of 2013, the Town
adopted Wayne County’s zoning ordinances as its own; however, the Town Council specifically
stated that the new code did “not over-ride the jurisdiction of other Town entities, specifically
Lyman Town Water System . . ..” Lyman Town Ordinance #5-02-13 (May 2, 2013). The Town’s
ordinances mandate compliance with the requirements of the culinary water authority for all
uses.1


1
 The Town adopted Wayne County’s Zoning Ordinances. Section 1629 of those ordinances states that “[a]ll uses
and primary buildings requiring culinary water and sanitary sewer services shall comply with the requirements of


Advisory Opinion – Chappell/Lyman
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 25, 2015 Page 2 of 5
The home on the Chappell property, or the “primary building,” has water service from the Lyman
Water System. However, according to the materials received for this Opinion, the water company
requires that Mr. Chappell acquire an additional share of the Lyman Water System, and install a
separate meter and water line to serve the accessory building.2

The bylaws of the Lyman Water System allow multiple outlets from a single connection (or
“tap”), but prohibit a shareholder from supplying water to “others,” or individuals who do not
have a right use the water.

           A tap shall be construed to mean One connection with a one inch pipe either with
           the main line or with some lateral belonging thereto, it being understood that the
           user of such tap may have as many outlets on same as he may deem necessary for
           his use and convenience, subject to the approval and regulations of the [Lyman
           Water System]. Provided, that any stockholder, subscriber or renter who is found
           supplying others with water, who have no right thereto as stockholder or renter,
           shall be denied the right to the use of their taps and same shall be closed off . . ..
           Permission to tap the said water system and use water therefrom may be granted
           to non-stockholders of the [Lyman Water System] upon the payment to the
           Treasurer of a rental of _____ Dollars per month . . ..

Bylaws of the Lyman Water System, Art. 9. Connections to the system must be approved by the
Water System, and the person making the connection is responsible for all costs. Id.

The Town’s ordinances provide that “an accessory dwelling unit for an owner or employee shall
be connected to, and served by the same water, sewer, electrical, and gas meters that serve the
primary building. No separate utility lines, connections, or meters shall be allowed for an
accessory dwelling unit.” LYMAN TOWN ORDINANCE, § 1709(4).3

                                                   Analysis
Governmental authority cannot be surrendered to private entities. “[N]either the state nor [a]
municipality can surrender by contract the governmental power to guard the safety, morals,
health, and good order of society, a contract purporting to do so is void ab initio . . ..” Utah Hotel
Co. v. Public Utilities Commission of Utah, 59 Utah 389, 398, 204 P. 511, 515 (1922).4 In
simpler terms, a municipality may not give its authority away. Zoning regulation is an exercise of
governmental police power, or the authority to protect the health, safety, and welfare of a


the Culinary Water Authority and Sanitary Sewer Authority, as applicable.” WAYNE COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE, §
1629(1). The Lyman Water System is the Town’s Culinary Water Authority.
2
  A share in the Lyman Water System entitles the owner to receive water service. Shares may be purchased or leased,
as provided by the Lyman Water System bylaws. The Chappells own at least one share, which entitles them to water
service to the existing home.
3
  See also LYMAN TOWN ORDINANCES, § 1706(9) (Separate utility connections and meters prohibited).An accessory
dwelling unit may not be rented or sold separately from the primary structure on the lot. Id., §§ 1706(10); 1709(1).
4
  “Void ab initio” mean “void from the beginning”


Advisory Opinion – Chappell/Lyman
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 25, 2015 Page 3 of 5
community.5 Accordingly, a local government cannot give to a private third party authority to
make land use decisions.

A local government may contract with an outside entity to provide essential public services, but
it does not relinquish its inherent police power when it does so. 6 The entity providing the service
retains authority over how the service is provided, but it may not assume the authority to
override the local government’s regulations. Hence, while the Town of Lyman has contracted
with the Water Company to provide water service, it has not relinquished its authority to enact
and enforce zoning regulations. The Water Company’s rules must be subservient to the Town’s
zoning regulations. If the Town would like to enforce the Water Company’s rules, the Town
should adopt those rules as ordinances.7

Accordingly, if the Chappell’s application complies with the Town’s Ordinances, the application
is entitled to approval.8 Only the Town has authority to make that determination. The Town
cannot make approval of the Chappell’s building permit application dependent upon the approval
of the water company, thus surrendering its authority to approve the application to the Water
Company.

The Water Company has discretion to decide how it operates its water system, and it would be
outside of the purview of this Office to opine about the Water Company’s decisions and
procedures. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that if the Chappell’s plans meet the Town’s
definition of an accessory building, then the building is an accessory building under the law. The
Town must make its decision to approve or disapprove on that basis, notwithstanding the water
company’s apparent conclusion that the building is a separate dwelling and not an accessory
building.

Moreover, all parties, including the Water Company, are subject to the ordinances of the Town.
According to Lyman Town ordinance, the Accessory Dwelling must receive its water service
from the same source as the Primary Building, and not from a separate connection and meter. See
LYMAN TOWN ORDINANCE, § 1709(4). As such, the Chappells are prohibited by ordinance to
have separate metering and utility service to the accessory building. The Lyman Water System
appears to require that the accessory building be separately served and metered. Doing so would

5 “‘[I]t is established that an owner of property holds it subject to zoning ordinances enacted pursuant to a state's

police power.’ Western Land Equities, Inc. v. City of Logan, 617 P.2d 388, 390 (Utah 1980)(emphasis added). As
such, the underlying purpose of traditional zoning is to protect the public health, safety, and welfare and to minimize
conflicts between incompatible uses.” Patterson v. Utah County Bd. of Adjustment, 893 P.2d 602, 607 (Utah Ct. App.
1995) (citations omitted).
6
  The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is aware of several examples where municipal services are
provided by special service districts or private entities.
7
  Even if the Town were to adopt the Lyman Water System regulations and bylaws by ordinance, compliance with
those ordinances would always be a determination of the Town, never of the water company.
8
  UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(ii): “an applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the application
conforms to the requirements of the municipality's land use maps, zoning map, a municipal specification for public
improvements applicable to a subdivision or development, and an applicable land use ordinance in effect when a
complete application is submitted and all application fees have been paid.”


Advisory Opinion – Chappell/Lyman
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 25, 2015 Page 4 of 5
result in the zoning violation. A property owner should not be forced into a zoning violation
simply to obtain utility service from a private company.

                                          Conclusion
The Town may contract with a private entity to provide municipal services, such as culinary
water, but it may not relinquish its authority to regulate land use and development. Although the
Lyman Water Company may adopt rules governing the delivery of water service in the Town, its
rules are subservient to the Town’s ordinances and zoning decisions.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Chappell/Lyman
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 25, 2015 Page 5 of 5
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                      Vanor Okerlund
                      Town of Lyman
                      101 S. Center St.
                      PO Box 23
                      Lyman, Utah 84749

On this ___________ Day of August, 2015, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
