                     Advisory Opinion #176
                                   Parties: Scott Hunter, Tooele County
                                         Issued: November 29, 2016

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                                       Conditional Use Application
                                           Nonconforming Uses
                                       Interpretation of Ordinances

The 1996 conditional use permit did not expire on its own terms, because the
expiration condition was never expressed in the permit approval. Likewise, the
1996 conditional use permit did not expire by the terms of the Tooele County
ordinances, because the provisions causing expiration of the permit did not apply
to the property.

Nevertheless, the zoning has changed on the property. The new zoning does not
allow gravel extraction. When the zoning changed, the active gravel pit became a
legal nonconforming use, and its continuance will depend on whether it has been
abandoned. The remaining property previously covered under the conditional use
permit for gravel extraction, but never actually used for gravel extraction, has
neither a conditional use permit nor legal nonconforming status at present.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI     BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director    Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:               Scott Hunter

        Local Government Entity:                     Tooele County

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:             South Rim, LC

        Type of Property:                            Gravel Pit

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:               November 29, 2016

        Opinion Authored By:                         Brent N. Bateman
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                                      ISSUE
        Did the 1996 conditional use permit for gravel extraction expire, or is it valid today even though
        the zoning has changed?



                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        The 1996 conditional use permit did not expire on its own terms, because the expiration
        condition was never expressed in the permit approval. Likewise, the 1996 conditional use permit
        did not expire by the terms of the Tooele County ordinances, because the provisions causing
        expiration of the permit did not apply to the property.

        Nevertheless, the zoning has changed on the property. The new zoning does not allow gravel
        extraction. When the zoning changed, the active gravel pit became a legal nonconforming use,
        and its continuance will depend on whether it has been abandoned. The remaining property
        previously covered under the conditional use permit for gravel extraction, but never actually used
        for gravel extraction, has neither a conditional use permit nor legal nonconforming status at
        present.
                                            REVIEW
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Mr. Scott Hunter on September 16, 2016.
A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Marilyn K. Gillette, County Clerk, Tooele
County, 47 South Main, #318, Tooele, UT 84074.


                                           EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion submitted by Mr. Scott Hunter on September 16, 2016,
        with attachments.
     2. Letter submitted by Mr. Gary K. Searle, Chief Deputy Tooele County Attorney, received
        October 18, 2016, with attachments.
     3. Response submitted by Mr. Hunter, via email, received October 20, 2016, with
        attachments.
     4. Response submitted by Mr. Searle, via email, received October 21, 2016.


                                          BACKGROUND
According to available imagery, a small gravel pit (the Pit) has
existed in the South Mountain area of Tooele County since at
least 1977. A portion of the Pit lies within a long rectangular
10 acre parcel (the 10 Acre Parcel) as shown here. The
remainder of the Pit, approximately 6 acres, lies outside of the
10 Acre Parcel.

In October 1996, Tooele County, the then-owner of the 10
Acre Parcel applied for a conditional use permit (CUP) for
gravel extraction. The County granted the County’s requested
permit. The CUP covers the 10 Acre Parcel only. It does not
appear that any permit was ever obtained for the portion of the
Pit outside of the 10 Acre Parcel.

Advisory Opinion – Scott Hunter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 29, 2016 Page 2 of 8
The application file for the 1996 CUP on the 10 Acre Parcel includes a document titled Staff
Recommendations for Conditioned[sic] Issued. This document contains the recommendations of
County staff for approval of the CUP application. In relevant part, this document states that:

           5. Therefore, the Department of Engineering staff recommends the following for
           items for consideration as conditions to be issued by the Tooele County Planning
           Commission.
               a. The applicant shall submit for approval an operation plan addressing Item
                   27-6 of chapter 27 of the Uniform Zoning Ordinance of Tooele County.
                   This plan shall address the operation for the next five years.
               b. The applicant shall not be required to maintain a reclamation bond.
               c. This permit shall be reviewed and site inspected annually and will expire
                   five years from the date of approval.

The CUP was approved at the October 16, 1996 Tooele County Planning Commission meeting.
The minutes of this meeting relating to this item read exactly as follows, in their entirety:

           Application for Conditional Use Permit #0134-96, Gravel Permit, South
           Mountain – Tooele County

           Mr. McKendrick stated that this was an existing gravel permit and is located on
           10 acres in an MU-40 zone. It is very limited as to what is extracted.

           Gilbert Davies made a motion to approve application for Conditional Use Permit
           #0134-96, Gravel Permit, South Mountain – Tooele County. John Olsen seconded
           the motion.

           By verbal roll call:
                  Lois McArthur                Yes
                  John Olson                   Yes
                  Shirley Worthington          Yes
                  Gilbert Davies               Yes
                  Craig Vorwaller              Yes
                  John Beagley                 Yes

This record contains no mention of the staff recommendations, nor of adoption of any conditions
upon approval of the permit. No other permit, document, or record of approval of this CUP is
found.

Tooele County ordinances require, in the Chapter titled Mining and Extraction Zone (MG-EX),
that gravel pit owners submit a 5 year operations plan, and that at the expiration of the 5 year
plan, either a new five year plan be submitted or closure and reclamation of the site should
commence. It does not appear that the 10 Acre Parcel, nor any part of the Pit, were ever within
the zone titled Mining and Extraction Zone (MG-EX). It appears that the Pit owners never
submitted any 5 year operations plan, nor was the site ever reclaimed.

Advisory Opinion – Scott Hunter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 29, 2016 Page 3 of 8
In the years following the grant of the 1996 CUP, residential development has crept toward the
Pit. According to the parties, sometime in the early 2000s, the zoning on the Pit was changed. It
is not clear from the documents submitted exactly what changes took place, but both parties
agree that following the zone change, no part of the Pit is zoned for gravel extraction.

The current owner of the 10 Acre Parcel now owns many other parcels contiguous to the Pit. The
owner plans to significantly expand both the size of the Pit and the volume of material extracted.
The current owner’s total plan is to establish a 160 acre gravel operation. On October 21, 2014,
the Tooele County Planner sent a letter to the current owner that reads as follows:

           The Tooele County Planning staff has reviewed the status of your property (ID #
           06-023-0-0011) and found it to be a legally grandfathered use as a sand and gravel
           excavation use. A conditional use permit was issued for the property in 1996 and
           because conditional use permits run with the property and not the owner, the use
           legally exists. We would only ask that a new 5-year operation plan be submitted
           for the current operations as required under Section 27-3(2) of the Tooele County
           Land Use Ordinance.

Thus the County found that a legally nonconforming use exists on the 10 Acre Parcel for sand
and gravel excavation, and so notified the current owner. The owner submitted a 5 year plan on
the entire 160 acre extraction area, and the County Zoning Official approved that plan.

Some neighbors in the area dislike having a gravel pit so close to their homes. One of those
neighbors, Scott Hunter, has requested this Advisory Opinion to determine whether or not the
permit to extract gravel is valid. He argues that the CUP for the 10 Acre Property expired by its
terms. Alternately, he argues that the use of the property cannot be expanded to a large gravel
operation and still maintain its grandfathered status.

Having reviewed the matter, the County now acknowledges that there never was a CUP for a 160
acre gravel operation, and has so notified the current owner. However, the County argues that the
CUP remains valid for the 10 Acre Parcel, upon which the CUP was originally granted. The
County further argues that the excavated area outside of the 10 acre parcel is legally
nonconforming, and extraction operations there may continue.


                                              ANALYSIS
Since the County clarified that the entire 160 acre area does not have legal nonconforming use
status, no question remains regarding expansion of the Pit. The 160 acre gravel operation will
require a zoning change to a zone that allows gravel extraction. If a zone change is granted, the
operation will then require a permit for gravel extraction. However, two questions remain: (1) the
status of the 1996 CUP on the 10 Acre Parcel, and (2) whether the Pit, inside or outside of the 10
Acre Parcel, is a legal nonconforming use permitting continued gravel extraction there.



Advisory Opinion – Scott Hunter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 29, 2016 Page 4 of 8
1. The Conditional Use Permit on the 10 Acre Parcel

           a. The CUP Did Not Expire on its Own Terms

Mr. Hunter first argues that the CUP for the 10 Acre Parcel expired by its own terms. This
argument is based upon the document titled Staff Recommendations for Conditioned[sic] Issued,
which states that “This permit shall be reviewed and site inspected annually and will expire five
years from the date of approval.”

This expiration condition was not included in the permit approval. UTAH CODE § 17-27a-
508(1)(i) indicates how a county may legitimately impose a requirement on a land use permit:

           (i)         A county may not impose on a holder of an issued land use permit or a
                       final, unexpired subdivision plat a requirement that is not expressed:
                       (i) in a land use permit;
                       (ii) on the subdivision plat;
                       (iii)in a document on which the land use permit or subdivision plat is
                            based;
                       (iv) in the written record evidencing approval of the land use permit or
                            subdivision plat;
                       (v) in this chapter; or
                       (vi) in a county ordinance.

According to this statute, a County may not impose an unexpressed requirement. Moreover, any
requirement must be expressed in one of the six listed sources.

The expiration condition is expressed only in the document titled Staff Recommendations for
Conditioned[sic] Issued. It is expressed nowhere else. There is no written separate (i) land use
permit or (ii) subdivision plat. Accordingly, there is no (iii) document on which a land use permit
or subdivision plat is based. The (iv) written record evidencing approval, i.e, the minutes of the
Planning Commission meeting, do exist. But the expiration condition is not found there
expressly or by reference. Finally, no expiration condition is found in (v) this chapter of the State
Code, or in (vi) the county ordinance. Thus, the expiration condition is not expressed in any of
these sources. According to the statue, the unexpressed expiration condition cannot be imposed.

The only document expressing the condition clearly states that it contains the
“recommendations” of staff “for consideration as conditions.” Nothing in the approval or the
CUP approval references or adopts these staff recommendations. In land use approvals, staff
recommendations are often rejected or significantly modified in granting the actual permit. We
cannot assume that the recommendations of staff have been adopted unless that adoption has
been clearly expressed. The only written record evidencing approval of the permit, the minutes,
include only one statement that could possibly be considered a condition: “It is very limited as to
what is extracted.” This does not reference any statement in the Staff Recommendations. We
cannot simply assume that a condition was imposed, just because the condition was
recommended by staff. Accordingly, the expiration condition was not adopted and the permit did
not expire after five years.

Advisory Opinion – Scott Hunter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 29, 2016 Page 5 of 8
           b. The CUP Did Not Expire Due to County Ordinance

Mr. Hunter also argues that Tooele County Ordinance 27-3 requires a five year operation plan,
and either a new five year plan or closure and reclamation of the site when the five year plan
expires.

Tooele County Ordinance 27-3 states that:

           All commercial pit operations shall work under an approved five year operation
           plan. Upon expiration of the previous plan, a new five year plan shall be
           submitted; otherwise closure and reclamation operations shall begin within six
           months.

It appears that this requirement was never applicable to the property. Tooele County Ordinance
27-3 is a requirement imposed upon properties within the Mining, Quarry, Sand, and Gravel
Excavation Zone (MG-EX). The documents submitted do not indicate that the 10 Acre Parcel was
ever within this zone. Thus, the condition cannot be said to apply to the 10 Acre Parcel.

A property owner must comply with the legal requirements placed upon the land by the
applicable zoning ordinance. However, a property owner cannot be expected to comply with
legal requirements not applicable to the zone in which the land appears, just because those legal
requirements appear elsewhere in the Code. Thus, this legal requirement is not applicable to the
10 Acre Parcel, and the CUP did not expire.

2. The Legal Nonconforming Use Status of the Pit

Just because the CUP did not expire, it is not necessarily still in effect. Both parties indicate that
the current zoning of the Pit is different from the zoning that existed at the time the CUP was
issued, and the current zoning does not allow gravel pits. If that is the case, the 10 Acre Parcel no
longer has a CUP to operate a gravel pit, because the original CUP is no longer legal.
Accordingly, the area of the 10 Acre Parcel that has never been used as a gravel pit has no
current CUP for gravel extraction.

           a. Legal Nonconforming Uses

Conversely, the area of the Pit, both inside and outside of the 10 Acre Parcel, may currently
maintain a legal nonconforming use right as a gravel pit. Uses of property that were legal when
first established, but are now illegal due to a change in the law since the use was established, and
have maintained the use continuously since the use became illegal, have a property right called a
legal nonconforming use. UTAH CODE 17-27a-103(38) defines a Nonconforming Use:

           A “Nonconforming use” is defined as use of land that:
              (a) legally existed before its current land use designation;
              (b) has been maintained continuously since the time the land use ordinance
                  regulation governing the land changed; and

Advisory Opinion – Scott Hunter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 29, 2016 Page 6 of 8
                 (c) because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does not
                     conform to the regulations that now govern the use of the land.

Nonconforming uses may be legally maintained once the use becomes illegal: “Except as
provided in this section, a nonconforming use or a noncomplying structure may be continued by
the present or a future property owner.” UTAH CODE 17-27a-510(1)(a). However, once a use
becomes nonconforming, it is subject to state laws and local ordinances regarding legal
nonconforming uses. The state statute provides:

           The legislative body may provide for:
              (a) the establishment, restoration, reconstruction, extension, alteration,
                  expansion, or substitution of nonconforming uses upon the terms and
                  conditions set forth in the land use ordinance;
              (b) the termination of all nonconforming uses, except billboards, by providing
                  a formula establishing a reasonable time period during which the owner
                  can recover or amortize the amount of his investment in the
                  nonconforming use, if any; and
              (c) the termination of a nonconforming use due to its abandonment.

UTAH CODE 17-27a-510(2). Thus, once a use becomes legally nonconforming, it can continue,
subject to state laws and local ordinances, including laws and ordinances on abandonment.

Tooele County ordinances do contain an abandonment provision:

           (2) Wherever a nonconforming use has been discontinued for a period of
           one year, such use shall not thereafter be re-established, and any future use
           shall be in conformance with the provisions of the land use ordinance.

Land Use Ordinance of Tooele County, 5-6(2). Accordingly, in Tooele County, if a legally
nonconforming use ceases operation for a period of one year, it is abandoned, and the use cannot
be resumed without obtaining a new permit.

           b. The Pit is a Legal Nonconforming Use Unless it was Abandoned

The parties each indicate that the land use ordinances have changed at the Pit, and that gravel
extraction is no longer a legal use. Once that happened, the CUP in the 10 Acre Parcel became
illegal, and the Pit itself became legally nonconforming. Accordingly, the Pit can continue to
operate in the size and manner to which it has been continuously maintained as a legal
nonconforming use.

Nothing submitted by the parties indicates clearly whether or not the Pit has continuously
operated since it became legally nonconforming “sometime in the early 2000s.” Accordingly, if
the Pit has not been used as a gravel pit for any one-year period, it may have been abandoned. If
so, the legal nonconforming status has been lost, and the pit cannot be operated unless a new
conditional use permit is obtained in accordance with the current zoning. Note that the party
attempting to prove that abandonment has occurred has the burden to prove abandonment. UTAH

Advisory Opinion – Scott Hunter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 29, 2016 Page 7 of 8
CODE 17-27a-510(4)(b). Accordingly, if abandonment cannot be proven, and continuous use as a
gravel pit has been maintained, the Pit is a legally nonconforming use and can continue.

                                          CONCLUSION
The Conditional Use Permit for the 10 Acre Parcel did not expire by its terms or by Tooele
County Ordinance. However, once the zoning changed for the 10 Acre Parcel to a zone that does
not allow gravel pits, the CUP became illegal. At that point, the portion of the 10 Acre Parcel
actually used as a gravel pit became a legally nonconforming use, and may still be so today
unless it was abandoned. The remainder of the 10 Acre Parcel, not used as a gravel pit, no longer
has a CUP for gravel extraction.

The active portion of the Pit outside of the 10 Acre Parcel may also be a legally nonconforming
use if it has not been abandoned.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Scott Hunter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 29, 2016 Page 8 of 8
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in UTAH CODE § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
