                     Advisory Opinion #186

                                   Parties: Jay Harwood, Tooele County
                                             Issued: May 24, 2017


                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                                           Nonconforming Uses



The doctrine of diminishing assets permits legal nonconforming (grandfathered)
gravel pits to expand beyond their physical boundaries in order to continue
operations. However, expansion is limited to the boundaries of the parcel(s) upon
which gravel operations existed at the time the use became nonconforming.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI     BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director    Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:               Jay Harwood

        Local Government Entity:                     Tooele County

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:             Jay Harwood

        Type of Property:                            Gravel Pit

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:               May 24, 2017

        Opinion Authored By:                         Brent N. Bateman
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                      ISSUE
        May Mr. Harwood expand the boundaries of his legal nonconforming gravel pit?



                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        Utah law recognizes the doctrine of diminishing assets. This doctrine permits legal
        nonconforming gravel pits to expand beyond their physical boundaries in order to continue
        operations. Unlike other legal nonconforming uses, expansion of a gravel pit does not jeopardize
        the pit’s legal status. However, expansion is limited to the boundaries of the parcel(s) upon which
        gravel operations existed at the time the use became nonconforming.


                                                    REVIEW
        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
        administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
        application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts. A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Mr. Jay Harwood on January
11, 2017. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Marilyn K. Gillette, County Clerk,
Tooele County, 47 South Main, #318, Tooele, UT 84074.


                                           EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion submitted by Mr. Jay Harwood on January 11, 2017,
        with attachments.
     2. Letter submitted by Mr. Gary K. Searle, Chief Deputy Tooele County Attorney, received
        February 13, 2017, with attachments.
     3. Response submitted by Mr. Harwood, received on February 17, 2017, with attachments.
     4. Letter submitted by Mr. Scott Hunter, received on March 20, 2017, with attachments.
     5. Response submitted by Mr. Harwood, received on April 7, 2017, with attachments.
     6. Response submitted by Mr. Hunter, received on April 12, 2017, with attachments.


                                          BACKGROUND
Advisory Opinion #176, released by this Office on November 29, 2016, concerns a ten-acre
gravel operation in Tooele County. This Advisory Opinion is the second concerning the same
gravel pit. Jay Harwood, requestor of this opinion, owns the pit and approximately 160 acres of
the surrounding land, and would like to extract gravel. Some residents near the pit would prefer
the gravel operation cease. Tooele County, we believe, simply wants to follow the law.

Advisory Opinion #176 addressed whether a previous conditional use permit for the pit remained
in effect or had expired. This Office found therein that the CUP was no longer in effect since the
zoning on the property changed to prohibit gravel extraction. Nevertheless, we opined that the
existing ten-acre gravel pit was a legal nonconforming use that could continue unless abandoned.
We further expressed the opinion that “the Pit can continue to operate in the size and manner to
which it has been continuously maintained as a legal nonconforming use.” It appears that after
the release of that Advisory Opinion, Tooele County determined that Mr. Harwood’s pit could
continue gravel extraction operations, but could not expand its boundaries. In other words, the
County ordered that extraction could continue vertically, but not horizontally.

In the current Advisory Opinion request, Mr. Harwood raises for the first time the doctrine of
diminishing assets. He argues that this doctrine allows the nonconforming use to expand
horizontally, widening the boundaries of the extraction area in order to continue operations.
Tooele County counter-argues that Mr. Harwood does not have the legal right to expand his
gravel operations beyond the existing 10 acre pit to the adjacent 160 acres he owns, because the

Advisory Opinion – Jay Harwood
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Date May 24, 2017 Page 2 of 5
zoning did not allow gravel operations in any location on the property at the time Mr. Harwood
purchased the property. Scott Hunter, requestor of the previous Advisory Opinion, also submitted
arguments for this opinion, and argues that despite Advisory Opinion #176, no legal
nonconforming use exists because the mine had been abandoned, and therefore the doctrine of
diminishing assets does not apply.


                                               ANALYSIS
Normally, legal nonconforming uses cannot expand beyond the historical boundaries of the use.
The Utah Code states that an owner may not expand a legal nonconforming use by structural
alteration of its building. UTAH CODE § 17-27a-510. In other words, the use must normally
remain within the confines existing when the use became nonconforming.

A 50 year-old Utah case, Gibbons & Reed Co. v. North Salt Lake City, 431 P.2d 559 (Utah 1967),
provides Utah’s solitary exception to this prohibition on expansion. This case concerns a gravel
extraction pit in North Salt Lake City, to which, as here, the neighbors objected. After accepting
as a given that the gravel operation was legally nonconforming, the Utah Supreme Court noted
that a gravel operation differs from other uses in that the very use consumes the asset:

           The case here is not the usual case of a business conducted within buildings, nor
           is the land held merely as a site or location whereon the enterprise can be
           conducted indefinitely with existing facilities. In a gravel operation the land itself
           is a material or resource. It constitutes a diminishing asset and is consumed in the
           very process of use.

Id. at 562-563. The court expressly adopted a rule that we now call the doctrine of diminishing
assets, which allows an extraction business to expand its boundaries onto the entire parcel. The
Utah Supreme Court held that

           The very nature and use of an extractive business contemplates the continuance of
           such use of the entire parcel of land without limitation or restriction to the
           immediate area excavated at the time the ordinance was passed.

Id. at 564. Gibbons & Reed remains the sole Utah case we can discover on the subject, and thus
remains the effective and unoverturned law in Utah. And because of the close similarity of
Gibbons & Reed to the present case, there can be no question that this doctrine applies here.
Thus, in accordance with Gibbons & Reed, the non-conforming gravel pit in this case may
continue to extract its diminishing assets. The pit may expand beyond its boundaries as they
existed at the time the use became nonconforming. In other words, the doctrine of diminishing
assets represents the law in Utah and Mr. Harwood may extract gravel horizontally. The pit may
increase in size.

Nevertheless, the expansion of the nonconforming gravel pit is not indefinite. There must be a
limit to which the horizontal boundaries of the gravel pit can expand. Otherwise, the pit could
expand forever, rendering the nonconforming use rule meaningless. In Gibbons & Reed, the

Advisory Opinion – Jay Harwood
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Date May 24, 2017 Page 3 of 5
court limited the expansion of the gravel pit to the boundaries of Parcel D, specifically finding
that Parcel D was in use as a gravel pit at the time the use became nonconforming. The Gibbons
& Reed Court held that since a part of Parcel D was in use, then all of Parcel D could be used for
extraction as a legal nonconforming use. Gibbons & Reed, 431 P.2d at 564. The Court stated that
“plaintiffs' use of parcel D was a valid nonconforming use and not an extension thereof.” Id. at
565.

The unmistakable conclusion from the Court’s analysis is that only a parcel actually in use at the
time of nonconformity is eligible for expanded use under the doctrine of diminishing assets.
Parcels not in use at the time are not eligible for gravel extraction under the diminishing assets
doctrine. Expansion of the pit is limited by the boundary of the parcel upon which the owner
conducted the use.

Accordingly, under Gibbons & Reed, the doctrine of diminishing assets allows the expansion of a
gravel pit beyond the pit’s physical boundaries, but only within and not beyond the boundaries of
the parcel upon which the pit existed at the time that the extraction became legally
nonconforming. Subsequent purchases of adjoining property, and even subsequent adjustment of
boundaries, cannot indefinitely expand the nonconforming use. Gibbons & Reed supports only
expansion of the pit to the boundaries of the parcel as it existed at the time the pit became
nonconforming.

This result comports with existing Tooele County ordinance, which currently accepts the
diminishing assets doctrine but prohibits adding property and changing boundaries in order to
expand a nonconforming use area. Tooele County Ordinances 5-12. Moreover, the diminishing
assets doctrine as adopted in other states yields the same result. For example, the Washington
Supreme Court specifically limits expansion under the doctrine of diminishing assets to the
boundaries of the parcel:

           The proper scope of a lawful nonconforming use in an exhaustible resource is the
           whole parcel of land owned and intended to be use by the owner at the time the
           zoning ordinance was promulgated.

City of Univ. Place v. McGuire, 30 P.3d 453 (Wash, 2001) (also citing “the overwhelming
number of jurisdictions” that have also held that expansion under this doctrine is limited by the
boundaries of the parcel that existed at the time). Also, note 83 Am. Jur. 2d ZONING AND
PLANNING § 569:

           Such diminishing asset enterprises ‘use’ all of the land contained in a particular
           asset, and as a practical matter, such use must begin at one spot and continue from
           there to the boundary of the land.

Accordingly, Mr. Harwood’s existing ten-acre legally nonconforming gravel pit can continue
extraction and operation. In the process the extraction can expand beyond its current horizontal
boundaries without losing its legal nonconforming status. However, Mr. Harwood cannot
continue that extraction onto properties that were not used for extraction at the time the use
became nonconforming, even if he now owns those properties.

Advisory Opinion – Jay Harwood
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Date May 24, 2017 Page 4 of 5
Moreover, the fact that the properties did not allow gravel extraction at the time that Mr.
Harwood purchased them does not terminate or alter the legally nonconforming use status of the
property. A legal nonconforming use runs with the land: “[A] nonconforming use or
noncomplying structure may be continued by the present or a future property owner.” UTAH
CODE § 17-27a-510(1)(a). Also, “lawful existing nonconforming uses are not eradicated by a
mere change in ownership.” Gibbons & Reed, 431 P.2d at 564.

Finally, a party wishing to prove abandonment must show actual abandonment and not just
evidence of intent to abandon. No authority can be found to support Mr. Hunter’s argument that
subsequent changes of intent alone effectuate abandonment. Abandonment arises from actual
changes in actual physical use, see generally UTAH CODE § 17-27a-510(4), and not only intent to
change use. No evidence of physical abandonment has been shown.

                                          CONCLUSION
Gibbons & Reed established the doctrine of diminishing assets in Utah. This doctrine permits
legal nonconforming gravel pits to expand beyond their physical boundaries and still retain their
legal use status. Mr. Harwood can therefore continue to extract gravel at the site, and can expand
his gravel pit horizontally. However, that horizontal expansion is limited to the boundaries of the
parcel(s) upon which the pit existed at the time the ordinance changed and the use became
legally nonconforming. Even if Mr. Harwood owns the adjacent land and/or boundaries have
subsequently changed, the gravel pit cannot expand beyond the parcels as they existed at that
time.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Jay Harwood
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Date May 24, 2017 Page 5 of 5
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in UTAH CODE § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:



                      Marilyn K. Gillette, County Clerk
                      Tooele County
                      47 South Main, #318
                      Tooele, Utah 84074


On this ___________ Day of May, 2017, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
