                   Advisory Opinion #124
               Parties: Randy Hughes, The Gun Vault, LLC and South Jordan City
                                         Issued: April 30, 2013

                                         TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                      B: Conditional Use Applications
                      Other Topics: (v) Interpretation of Ordinances

A city must issue a conditional use permit (“CUP”) for an allowed conditional use
when a project’s anticipated detrimental effects can be mitigated in accordance
with standards set forth in the city’s ordinances. A city’s decision to issue a CUP
is proper unless it is arbitrary, capricious or illegal. A decision to issue a CUP is
not arbitrary and capricious if supported by substantial evidence in the record. A
decision to issue a CUP is not illegal if a city follows its ordinances and other
applicable law. In interpreting a zoning ordinance, 1) a party must give effect to
the plain meaning of the words, 2) a city’s interpretation of its own ordinance
receives some level of non-binding deference, and 3) Utah law favors an
interpretation allowing uses.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   GREG BELL
Lieutenant Governor




                                         ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                Randy Hughes

      Local Government Entity:                      South Jordan City

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:          John Maynard (The Gun Vault, LLC)

      Type of Property:                             Commercial Development

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                April 30, 2013

      Opinion Authored By:                          James S. Wright
                                                    Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                    Issues
      Did a city properly issue a conditional use permit for an indoor gun range where the applicable
      zoning ordinance lists “amusement, recreational activities” and “educational and training
      activities” as permissible conditional uses?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
      A city must issue a conditional use permit (“CUP”) for an allowed conditional use when a
      project’s anticipated detrimental effects can be mitigated in accordance with standards set forth
      in a city’s ordinances. A city’s decision to issue a CUP is proper unless its decision is arbitrary,
      capricious or illegal. In this case, South Jordan City’s (“South Jordan” or the “City”) decision to
      issue the CUP is supported by substantial evidence, and is therefore not arbitrary and capricious.
      In addition, the City properly determined that the indoor gun range fell into the definition of the
      permissible conditional uses of “amusement, recreational activities” or “educational and training
      activities” and the City otherwise followed its ordinances and applicable state law relating to the
      approval of the CUP. This means the City did not act illegally in approving the CUP. A Utah
      court therefore would not overturn the issuance of the CUP.
                                                      Review
Under the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-205, a party may file a Request for an
Advisory Opinion with the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman (“Office”) at any time
prior to the rendering of a final decision by a local land use appeal authority. An Advisory
Opinion provides an early review of significant land use questions before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies arises so that those involved in a land use application or other specific
land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. This review hopefully can help
the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and understand the
relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this Advisory Opinion,
may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

The Office received a Request for an Advisory Opinion from Randy Hughes on October 11,
2012. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Anna West, City Recorder of South
Jordan City, at 1600 West Towne Center Drive, South Jordan City, Utah 84095. The City
received that copy on October 17, 2012.

                                                     Evidence
The Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information in preparing this
Advisory Opinion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion with attachments, submitted by Randy Hughes and
                 received by the Office on October 11, 2012.
     2.          Planning Commission Report with attachments, South Jordan City Planning
                 Commission (October 9, 2012), submitted by Randy Hughes (the “October 9th
                 Report”).
     3.          Response from John Maynard, received by the Office on December 5, 2012.
     4.          Decision of the South Jordan City Council, Utah, dated December 18, 2012 (the
                 “December 18th Decision”).
     5.          Response from South Jordan City with attachments, submitted by Ryan Loose, dated
                 February 12, 2013 (the “February 12th Response”).


                                                    Background
The Gun Vault, LLC (“The Gun Vault”) desires to operate an indoor gun range (the “Range”) on
lots 2 and 3 (collectively, the “Parcel”) of the Parkway Corner Subdivision, located at 1203 and
1231 West South Jordan Parkway, in South Jordan. 1 The Parcel is located in the Commercial-
Community zone (“C-C Zone”). The City established the C-C Zone to provide for large scale
community or regional retail and service uses designed in a manner to buffer neighboring
residential areas. SOUTH JORDAN MUNICIPAL CODE (“SJMC”) § 17.52.010.
1
 We understand that the lot line between these two lots will be adjusted so that the building will sit entirely on lot 2
and lot 3 will be used as the parking lot.

Advisory Opinion – Randy Hughes/South Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2013 Page 2 of 8
The proposed Range includes 15 shooting lanes, retail space for firearms sales, classrooms for
educational activities, a VIP member’s lounge, basic storage and a custom shop with machinery
to modify certain gun parts in conjunction with the retail sales of firearms. The C-C Zone allows
“hobbies and crafts retailing” and “miscellaneous retail sales” as permitted uses. SJMC §
17.52.020. The C-C Zone also allows “educational and training activities” and “amusement,
recreational activities” as conditional uses. SJMC § 17.52.020.

John Maynard applied for a CUP on behalf of The Gun Vault on July 27, 2012. The South
Jordan Planning Commission approved the application on August 14, 2012. Randy and Karen
Hughes, who live in close proximity to the Parcel, and others (collectively, the “Appellants”)
filed an appeal with the South Jordan City Council. The City Council heard the appeal on
October 2, 2012 and tabled the matter. Mr. Maynard also applied for a second CUP on behalf of
The Gun Vault on August 24, 2012 based on additions and alterations to the Range. The
Planning Commission approved that application on October 9, 2012. The Appellants appealed
this decision as well, and based on the agreement of The Gun Vault and the Appellants, the City
Council consolidated the appeals. The City Council heard the appeal on November 20, 2012 and
issued a written decision dated December 18, 2012 granting the issuance of the CUP.

                                                    Analysis
South Jordan’s Decision to Issue the Conditional Use Permit Is Proper Because It Is not
Arbitrary, Capricious or Illegal.

Utah law states:

           (1) A land use ordinance may include conditional uses and provisions for
           conditional uses that require compliance with standards set forth in an applicable
           ordinance.

           (2) (a) A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are proposed,
           or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of
           the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-507(1)-(2)(a). This provision requires a city to approve a CUP
application for an allowed conditional use when a project’s anticipated detrimental effects can be
mitigated in accordance with standards set forth in a city’s ordinances.

Utah law also provides that a city’s CUP application decision is entitled to a degree of deference.
When reviewing a municipal land use authority’s land use decision, a district court must presume
that the land use decision is valid and the court’s determination is limited to determining
“whether or not the decision, ordinance or regulation is arbitrary, capricious or illegal.” UTAH
CODE ANN. § 10-9a-801(3)(a)(i-ii). A decision to grant a CUP “is arbitrary and capricious [only]
if it is not supported by substantial evidence.” Ralph L. Wadsworth Constr., Inc. v. West Jordan
City, 999 P.2d 1240, 1242 (Utah Ct. App. 2000) (alterations in original) (other citations omitted).

Advisory Opinion – Randy Hughes/South Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2013 Page 3 of 8
Utah courts have defined substantial evidence as “that quantum and quality of relevant evidence
that is adequate to convince a reasonable mind to support a conclusion.” Bradley v. Payson City,
70 P.3d 47, 52 (Utah 2003) (citation omitted). “A determination of illegality requires a
determination that the decision . . . violates a law, statute or ordinance in effect at the time the
decision was made. . .” UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-801(3)(d).

South Jordan determined that the Gun Vault could mitigate the reasonably anticipated
detrimental impacts of the Range in accordance with its ordinances and approved the CUP
pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-507(2)(a). This decision is proper because it is supported
by substantial evidence on the record and it is not illegal.

           A. South Jordan’s Decision Is not Arbitrary and Capricious.

South Jordan’s decision to approve the CUP allowing The Gun Vault to operate the Range is not
arbitrary and capricious because it is supported by substantial evidence. Utah courts have given
some analysis of what constitutes substantial evidence and what does not. In Springville Citizens
v. Springville, 979 P.2d 332 (Utah 1999), the Utah Supreme Court analyzed whether substantial
evidence supported a municipality’s decision to approve a P.U.D. The court noted that the
decision to approve the P.U.D. came after an extended time, multiple public meetings,
documentation in support of the decision, and ultimately, multiple imposed conditions.
Springville Citizens, 979 P.2d at 337. The court held that a reasonable mind could have reached
the same conclusion as the municipality given the nature and extent of the evidence. Id.

By contrast, in Ralph L. Wadsworth Constr., Inc. v. West Jordan City, 999 P.2d 1240 (Utah Ct.
App. 2000), the Utah Court of Appeals examined whether substantial evidence supported a city’s
decision to deny a CUP. The court held that substantial evidence did not support the City’s
decision when the evidence in the record consisted primarily of adverse public comment. Ralph
L. Wadsworth Construction, Inc., 999 P.2d at 1243.

In this matter relating to the Range, South Jordan held multiple public hearings at the planning
commission and city council level, including appeals. The City considered evidence and
testimony on safety, emissions, sound, property values, and compatibility with the surrounding
area, among other topics and listened to the concerns of its citizens opposed to this project. The
record contains multiple studies and reports, along with expert testimony, considered by the City
when determining whether to grant the CUP. 2 In addition, South Jordan imposed multiple
conditions on the conditional use. The evidence considered by the City, as in Springville
Citizens, consists of significantly more than unsubstantiated public comments or opinions.
Considering the foregoing, the record contains adequate information to convince a reasonable
mind to approve the conditional use. This means the City’s decision is supported by substantial
evidence in the record and is therefore not arbitrary and capricious.



2
 The record contains multiple acoustical studies, testimony from James Bennett from the Salt Lake Valley Health
Department relating to emissions and acoustics, a written security plan submitted by The Gun Vault, testimony by
Jordan McCormick, a gun range consultant, among other testimony and studies.

Advisory Opinion – Randy Hughes/South Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2013 Page 4 of 8
Given the amount of well-organized and substantive information provided by the Appellants, it is
important to stress that substantial evidence is not necessarily the best or most convincing
evidence. To reach the level of substantial evidence simply requires enough relevant evidence to
convince a reasonable mind to support a conclusion. Bradley v. Payson City, 70 P.3d 47, 52
(Utah 2003). Under Utah law, a land use authority’s decision relating to a CUP is presumed
valid and will be upheld unless it is arbitrary, capricious or illegal. The law does not contain any
provision allowing a court to compare and weigh opposing evidence to determine the side of the
issue with the best or most convincing evidence or to substitute the court’s judgment for that of
the municipality. See Springville Citizens v. Springville, 979 P.2d 332, 337 (Utah 1999). This
means that despite the fact that the Appellants have presented valid and convincing arguments
along with studies and research in opposition to the issuance of the CUP, the decision to issue the
CUP is not arbitrary or capricious because substantial evidence on the record supports it, and a
court will not weigh the evidence anew to overturn this decision.

           B. South Jordan’s Decision Is not Illegal.

South Jordan’s decision to grant the CUP is not illegal because it followed the laws, statutes and
ordinances in effect at the time of its decision. SJMC § 17.52.030 lists the permitted conditional
uses in the C-C Zone. SJMC § 17.84.010 et seq. provides the City’s requirements for reviewing
and approving a CUP.

                      1. The Range is a proper conditional use in the C-C Zone.

The City determined that the Range was a proper conditional use under SJMC § 17.52.030
because it either fit under the “Educational and training activities” or the provision for
“recreational activities” in that ordinance. 3 In interpreting an ordinance, the law requires to
“begin first by looking to the plain language of the ordinance.” Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 104
P.3d 1208, 1216 (Utah 2004). Utah law further provides that a city’s interpretation of its own
zoning ordinances is allowed “some level of non-binding deference.” Fox v. Park City, 200 P.3d
182, 185 (Utah 2008) (other citations omitted). In addition, because zoning laws “are in
derogation of a property owner’s use of land . . . any ordinance prohibiting a proposed use should
be strictly construed in favor of allowing the use.” Carrier, 104 P.3d at 1217. In this case, the
City’s interpretation will be upheld because the plain meaning of the words “recreational”,
“industrial” and “training” support its determination, the law gives that determination by South
Jordan some deference and Utah law favors interpreting zoning ordinances in favor of allowing
uses.

In determining whether it should classify the Range as a recreational or training use, and
therefore allowed in this zone, the City looked at the zoning where other indoor gun ranges exist
in Salt Lake County. The City found that all of these indoor ranges exist in commercial zones.
South Jordan City Council Report October 2, 2012, p. 3. The City Council also questioned the
applicant about the purpose of the Range and was told it was recreational. The February 12th
Response, p. 85. The City ultimately concluded that the Range was a proper conditional use

3
    The South Jordan Municipal Code does not contain definitions of these terms.

Advisory Opinion – Randy Hughes/South Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2013 Page 5 of 8
under the ordinance as either a recreational use or a training use. Decision of the South Jordan
City Council, December 18, 2012, p. 3. The Appellants argue that the Range should be classified
as an industrial use, which is prohibited in the C-C Zone under SJMC § 17.52.055(A)(3), or as
special training, which is a conditional use under the commercial-industrial zone in the City. 4

The plain meaning of the words “recreational,” “industrial” and to “train,” supports the City’s
decision to classify the Range as a “recreational” or “training” activity. The Merriam-Webster
Dictionary defines “industrial” as “of or relating to industry.” Merriam Webster Dictionary,
www.merriamwebster.com/dictionary/industrial. It defines “industry” as:

           2a: systematic labor especially for some useful purpose or the creation of
           something of value; b: a department or branch of a craft, art, business, or
           manufacture; especially : one that employs a large personnel and capital
           especially in manufacturing; c: a distinct group of productive or profit-making
           enterprises; d: manufacturing activity as a whole.

Merriam Webster Dictionary, www.merriamwebster.com/dictionary/industry. This definition
focuses on industrial activity actually manufacturing something of value. Shooting a gun does
not manufacture anything of value. The Appellants argued the City should classify the Range as
industrial primarily because of their view that it would cause nuisances and pollution, including
through the processing of bullets into recyclable lead. See, e.g., February 12th Response, p. 132.
While industrial uses certainly include activities that pollute and cause nuisances, this argument
does not seem to match the plain meaning of the word industrial because it misses the main point
of an industrial activity: manufacturing or creating something of value. The plain meaning of
industrial does not support a characterization of the Range as an industrial use.

The Merriam-Webster Dictionary defines “recreation” as “refreshment of strength and spirits
after work; also: a means of refreshment or diversion: HOBBY.” Merriam Webster Dictionary,
www.merriamwebster.com/dictionary/recreation. This suggests people would come to the Range
for fun or for a hobby. This is consistent with people paying to shoot there, as people oftentimes
pay to frequent recreational establishments. This contrasts with an industrial establishment that
would be typically paid for the items it manufactures. The plain meaning of “recreation”
supports the City’s determination that the Range fits under a recreational use.

In addition, the Merriam-Webster Dictionary defines to “train” as “3a: to form by instruction,
discipline, or drill; b: to teach so as to make fit, qualified, or proficient; to make prepared (as by
exercise)       for       a      test      of     skill.”      Merriam        Webster      Dictionary,
www.merriamwebster.com/dictionary/train. This also fits why people may come to the Range—
to drill or become more prepared for a test of skill in shooting. This plain meaning also supports
the City’s determination that the Range also fits under a training use.

The plain meaning of the words at issue supports the City’s classification of the Range as a
proper conditional use in the C-C Zone. In addition, the City’s interpretation of its own zoning

4
    The South Jordan Municipal Code does not contain a definition of “industrial” or “special training.”

Advisory Opinion – Randy Hughes/South Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2013 Page 6 of 8
ordinances is allowed some level of non-binding deference, and Utah law requires interpreting
zoning ordinances in favor of allowing uses. For these reasons, the City properly determined
that the Range is an appropriate potential conditional use in the C-C Zone.

                      2. South Jordan did not violate applicable law in approving the CUP.

South Jordan followed SJMC § 17.84.010 et seq., which provides the requirements for reviewing
and approving a CUP. Under SJMC § 17.84.020(A), an applicant must meet the following three
standards to have a CUP approved: 1) general welfare, 2) Nuisance, and 3) General Plan
Consistency. Based on the evidence presented to it, the City found that The Gun Vault had met
these standards. See pages 3-6 of the December 18th Decision and pages 3-4 of the February 12th
Response. 5

In addition, the Appellants argued that the shop attached to the retail sales portion of the Range
should not be allowed. The Range’s retail firearms sales area will have this shop where it will
make “minor modifications to existing firearms and previously manufactured parts” to add the
Range’s company name and logo for the purpose of augmenting retail sales. Letter from John
Maynard to Jake Warner, contained in the October 9th Report. “Hobbies and crafts retailing” and
“Miscellaneous retail sales” are allowed uses in the C-C Zone, and this shop will be permissible
if it is an “accessory use” to the permitted use of retail sales. The SJMC defines “accessory use”
as “a use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal permitted or conditional use of the
property. . .” SJMC § 17.08.010. Given that the role of the shop is to make minor modifications
to guns and accessories “meant to augment retail sales,” the shop activity is both incidental and
subordinate to the principal permitted use in this case and is not illegal. The City otherwise
followed its ordinances and applicable law, and therefore the decision to issue the CUP and
approve the Range was legal. 6

                                                    Conclusion
South Jordan had a legal requirement to issue a CUP for the Range if it was a proper conditional
use in the C-C Zone and if the Range’s anticipated detrimental effects could be mitigated in
accordance with standards set forth in the City’s ordinances. A court will uphold the City’s
decision to issue the CUP unless the decision was arbitrary, capricious or illegal. In this case, the
City’s decision to issue the CUP is supported by substantial evidence, and is therefore not
arbitrary and capricious. The plain language interpretation of the City’s ordinances supports the
conclusion that an indoor gun range is a permissible conditional use in the C-C Zone. In
addition, a court will grant some non-binding level of deference to South Jordan’s interpretation
5
  The City did not set forth the findings in a clear response to the three specific standards, but the necessary findings
are contained in the December 18th Decision’s analysis and conclusions relating to the requirements to add
conditions to the CUP found in SJMC § 17.84.020(B).
6
  Utah Code Ann. § 47-3-1 et seq. does not change the legality or propriety of the City’s decision to issue the CUP.
This statute does not require the City to do anything and does not establish the operation of the Range as a de facto
nuisance, thereby violating other applicable provisions of the South Jordan City Code. As discussed above, the City
had substantial evidence on the record to support its decision to issue the CUP, including by finding that the
operation of the Range would not be a nuisance in violation of the applicable provisions of the South Jordan City
Code.

Advisory Opinion – Randy Hughes/South Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2013 Page 7 of 8
of its own ordinances and will construe zoning ordinances in favor of allowing uses and will
therefore not find that an indoor gun range is an improper conditional use in the C-C Zone. The
City otherwise followed its ordinances and applicable state law relating to the approval of the
CUP and therefore the decision was not illegal. A Utah court will uphold the issuance of the
CUP because the decision was not arbitrary, capricious or illegal.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Randy Hughes/South Jordan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2013 Page 8 of 8
NOTE:


This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
                                 MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached Advisory Opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63G-7-401.

These provisions of state code require the delivery of the Advisory Opinion to the agent at the
address designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental
entity in the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Anna M. West
              City Recorder
              1600 West Towne Center Drive
              South Jordan City, Utah 84095


On this 30th day of April, 2013, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
foregoing governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
