                   Advisory Opinion #132
    This Advisory Opinion has been reconsidered and superseded in part by
  Advisory Opinion #138 after the applicant submitted additional information.

                            Parties: Gordon L. Miner and the City of Lehi
                                       Issued: October 22, 2013

                                         TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                          Impact Fees Act

Impact fees are presumed valid when properly adopted. A party challenging an
impact fee has the burden to prove that the impact fee fails to comply with the
law. A municipality may revise its impact fees based upon a developer’s
submissions of studies and data.

In this case, while the applicant raises many questions about the validity of the
City of Lehi’s impact fees, he has not met his burden of proof to prevail on his
argument that the fees violate the law. The developer’s submissions do not
require Lehi to revise its fees in this matter.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 SPENCER J. COX           FRANCINE A. GIANI       BRENT N. BATEMAN
Lieutenant Governor       Executive Director      Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




                                               ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                   Gordon L. Miner

      Local Government Entity:                         City of Lehi

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:             Gordon L. Miner

      Type of Property:                                Residence

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                   October 22, 2013

      Opinion Authored By:                             Brent N. Bateman
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       Issues
      Do a city’s impact fees impose an equitable share of the capital costs of public infrastructure on
      new development?

                                      Summary of Advisory Opinion
      Impact fees when properly adopted are presumed valid. A party challenging the impact fee has
      the burden to prove that the fee fails to comply with the law. Although Mr. Miner has raised
      many questions related to Lehi City’s impact fees, his submissions and arguments are generally
      insufficient to meet his burden of proof.

      The Impact Fee Act permits a developer to submit studies and data to a local political subdivision
      that may cause the local political subdivision to revise its impact fee, and permit revision of its
      fee in unusual circumstances. The City should accept and consider such studies and data when
      submitted. The statutory language, however, does not obligate the local political subdivision to
      revise its fee based upon the developers’ studies and data. The Act simply requires the City to
      authorize revision of its fee based upon studies and data submitted or unusual circumstances.
      Whether or not the fee should actually be revised depends upon the applicable law regarding the
      calculation of impact fees, and the discretion of the local political subdivision.
                                                Review
A request for an advisory opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Gordon L. Miner on October 30, 2012. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Connie J. Ashton, City Recorder for the City of
Lehi at 155 North 100 East, Lehi, Utah 84043. The return receipt was signed and delivered on
October 31, 2012, indicating it had been received by the City.

                                               Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this advisory
opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Gordon L. Miner,
                 received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, October 30, 2012.
     2.          Lehi City’s Fire/EMS, Police, Parks & Recreation, Culinary Water, Secondary Water,
                 Storm Drain, Sewer, and Transportation Impact Fee Analysis, March 2008, submitted
                 by Mr. Miner with margin comments on November 1, 2012.
     3.          Page 19 of Lehi City Power Department’s 2007 Capital Facilities Plan¸ submitted by
                 Mr. Miner with margin comments on November 13, 2012.
     4.          Page 47 of Lehi City Power Dept. 2007 Impact Fee Study¸ submitted by Mr. Miner
                 with margin comments on November 13, 2012.
     5.          Additional material submitted by Mr. Miner via email, December 13, 2012.
     6.          Maps showing City utility services, submitted by Mr. Miner on December 19, 2012.
     7.          Additional material submitted by Mr. Miner via email, December 21, 2012.
     8.          Additional material submitted by Mr. Miner via email, February 1, 2013.
     9.          “Impact Fee Challenge,” submitted by Mr. Miner on May 14, 2013 in response to a
                 request to Mr. Miner dated February 20, 2013 by the Office of the Property Rights
                 Ombudsman to that he consolidate and restate his issues and arguments.
     10.         Lehi City’s Fire/EMS, Police, Parks & Recreation Capital Facilities Plan, March
                 2008, obtained independently by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman.




Advisory Opinion – Miner/City of Lehi
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 22, 2013 Page 2 of 7
                                                  Background
In 2012, Gordon L. Miner received a building permit to construct a new home in eastern Lehi.
The City provides various services to residents of Lehi, including roads, culinary water,
secondary (or irrigation) water, stormwater drainage, police, fire, and parks. The City also has an
electrical utility service.1 The City required Mr. Miner to pay impact fees in order to obtain final
approval for the new home. 2 Mr. Miner objects to the City’s impact fees, and requested this
Advisory Opinion to evaluate their legality. 3

Through multiple submissions received at various times over several months, Mr. Miner made
many comments and raised multiple issues that, he argues, show that Lehi’s impact fees are not
correct. After reviewing the various submissions and notes, Lehi City objected to the
submissions, stating that Mr. Miner’s arguments were unclear and therefore sufficient responses
could not be provided. Upon careful review, this Office agreed with Lehi City, and requested that
Mr. Miner consolidate and reformat his Advisory Opinion request and resubmit it. Mr. Miner did
so in May 2013.

Thereafter, this Office requested that Lehi City provide a response to Mr. Miner’s request and
arguments. Lehi City did not provide a response. Mr. Miner requested that this Office issue the
Advisory Opinion despite Lehi City’s failure to respond.

                                                   Analysis
           I.          Mr. Miner’s Submissions Are Generally Insufficient to Meet His
                       Burden of Proof and Overcome the Presumption that the Impact Fees
                       Are Valid.

           A. Impact Fees Which Are Properly Adopted Are Presumed Valid.

Impact fees are one-time charges imposed as conditions of development approval which are
meant to offset or mitigate the impact the new development would have on public facilities. See
UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(8)(a). Cities and counties may charge impact fees authorized by the
Impact Fees Act. Id., § 11-36a-201.

An impact fee adopted in accordance with the procedures and requirements of the Impact Fees
Act is presumed to be valid. “[A] presumption of constitutionality attaches to the legislative
decisions of municipalities when they establish impact fees.” Home Builders Association of
Utah v. City of North Logan, 1999 UT 63, ¶ 9, 983 P.2d 561, 564 (citing Banberry Development
Corp. v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899, 904 (Utah 1981)). That presumption, however, may be


1
   Sewer and wastewater services are provided by the Timpanogos Special Services District. Mr. Miner also
requested an Advisory Opinion reviewing the District’s impact fees, which has been prepared separately.
2
  The impact fees were for roads, water, power (electricity), fire department, police department, storm drains, and
parks. The City also collected the sewer impact fee for the Timpanogos Special Services District.
3
  It is believed that Mr. Miner paid the fees “under protest,” and has completed his home.

Advisory Opinion – Miner/City of Lehi
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 22, 2013 Page 3 of 7
rebutted if the impact fees “require newly developed properties to bear more than their equitable
share of the capital costs in relation to benefits conferred.” Id.

If a developer challenges the reasonableness of an impact fee, the local political subdivision
imposing the fee “must first disclose the basis of its calculations . . ..” North Logan, 1999 UT
63, ¶ 8, 983 P.2d at 563 (citations and alterations omitted). When that information is disclosed,
“[t]he burden then falls upon the challenger to show [that the fee fails] to comply with the
constitutional standard of reasonableness.” Id. 1999 UT 63, ¶ 8, 983 P.2d at 563-64.

Lehi City disclosed the basis of its impact fee calculations by providing copies of the Fire/EMS,
Police, Parks & Recreation, Culinary Water, Secondary Water, Storm Drain, Sewer, and
Transportation Impact Fee Analysis prepared by Lewis Young Robertson & Burningham, Inc. in
2008, as well as the Lehi City Power Dept. 2007 Impact Fee Study prepared by Comlink Land
Services. It appears that those analyses were the basis of the City impact fees charged to Mr.
Miner. Thus they are entitled to a presumption of constitutionality, and Mr. Miner has the burden
of proof to show that the fees fail to comply with the Act.

           B. Mr. Miner’s Submissions Fail to Meet His Burden Generally

In order to meet his burden of proof, a challenger to an impact fee must articulate why the fees
are unreasonable or how proper application of the law would have resulted in a different fee. See
North Logan, 1999 UT 63, ¶ 13, 983 P.2d at 565. To varying degrees, Mr. Miner has failed to do
so in each discrete challenge he makes to Lehi’s impact fees.

Mr. Miner indeed raises a few issues that, if properly articulated and supported, could show his
entitlement to a partial refund of his impact fees. However, a disjointed and indirect approach to
argument, a tendency to assume that the reader understands his meaning, and most of all the
failure to provide relevant evidence to support his claims falls well short of the minimum
showing necessary to prove his claim in each case. 4

A successful challenge of an impact fee results in the adjustment of the fee to the amount the fee
would have been had it been correctly calculated. UTAH CODE § 11-36a-701(3)(c). To meet his
burden, a challenger must offer “evidence that a reasonable fee would have been less than [the

4 To illustrate, one of Mr. Miner’s best articulated claims concerns the City’s inclusion of “1000 South” and “2100

North” as future facilities to be constructed using impact fees. Mr. Miner states:
          “These two streets are already built and Lehi City did not build them. UDOT built them using
          federal money. Therefore, Lehi City . . . are using impact fees to recoup costs for these two streets
          that they did not incur. Therefore, the City must remove these two streets from my impact fee
          calculation and refund the difference to me.”
Mr. Miner probably comes as close with this argument in meeting his burden than in any of the many issues he
raises. Nevertheless, Mr. Miner produces no factual evidence to back his claim that UDOT built those streets using
federal money, or that UDOT and not Lehi City (or some joint endeavor by UDOT and Lehi City) built the streets at
no cost to Lehi City. Moreover, even if these facts were established, Mr. Miner provides no evidence to show how
these facts would affect the overall impact fee, or that he is entitled to a refund (and in what amount). It is not clear
that those funds could not legally be used on another street named in the study in accordance with the Impact Fee
Act and the CFP. This is one brief illustration of the issues that abound throughout Mr. Miner’s request.

Advisory Opinion – Miner/City of Lehi
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 22, 2013 Page 4 of 7
fee charged] let alone evidence showing that the lower impact fee actually charged was
unreasonable.” North Logan, 1999 UT 63, ¶ 19, 983 P.2d at 566. The failure to do so leaves a
decision maker without a basis to make a decision. The decision maker is simply left to either
obtain this supporting evidence itself and build the case on a party’s behalf, or assume that these
facts are true as portrayed and decide on that basis. This Office must issue an opinion in
accordance with the existing law and the evidence before it. It would be a conflict of interest for
this Office to both make a party’s case for him, as well as decide in a fair and impartial manner
whether that case prevails. 5

           II.         Mr. Miner May Request Revision of His Fee, And Lehi City May, but
                       Is Not Obligated To, Revise His Fee.

           A. Mr. Miner May Submit Studies and Data to Request Revision of His Fee

In additions to his many challenges to the actual impact fee, Mr. Miner asks the following
question: “Once the appropriate and legal unit (per-acre) fee is determined for secondary water,
do I have the right to submit an independent impact fee analysis based on actual proposed
irrigated acreage?” Mr. Miner believes that he has been denied that right.

The Impact Fee Act, UTAH CODE § 11-36a-402(1) provides as follows:

           (1) A local political subdivision or private entity shall ensure . . . an impact fee
           enactment contains:
                  ....
                  (c) a provision authorizing the local political subdivision or private entity,
                  as the case may be, to adjust the standard impact fee at the time the fee is
                  charged to:
                          (i) respond to:
                                  (A) unusual circumstances in specific cases; or
                  ....
                          (ii) ensure that the impact fees are imposed fairly; and
                  (d) a provision governing calculation of the amount of the impact fee to be
                  imposed on a particular development that permits adjustment of the
                  amount of the impact fee based upon studies and data submitted by the
                  developer.



5
  This Office frequently receives Advisory Opinion requests from private parties without attorneys, and gives full
credit to the efforts taken to articulate a claim, even when done inexpertly. In some cases, however, proceeding
without benefit of counsel can cause difficulties for all parties involved. Mr. Miner is an experienced and
accomplished engineer and clearly of very high intellect. Nevertheless, as this matter proceeded, this Office found
itself unable to proceed with Mr. Miner’s Advisory Opinion on the original submissions, and requested that Mr.
Miner rearticulate his arguments and resubmit his claim, along with providing some advice on how to reform the
arguments. Mr. Miner did so, which significantly improved the understanding the bases for his objections and
allegations. Nevertheless, impact fees carry a difficult burden, and analyzing the law and facts can be tenuous. Mr.
Miner still was unable to adequately articulate his claims and meet that burden.

Advisory Opinion – Miner/City of Lehi
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 22, 2013 Page 5 of 7
This provision requires that a city include in its Impact Fee enactment provisions enabling the
city to adjust the fee under certain circumstances. A fee may be adjusted to respond to unusual
circumstances or to ensure that they are imposed fairly. A fee may also be adjusted for a
particular development based upon the studies and data submitted by the developer.

This statute does not expressly give a developer a right to submit studies and data that support
adjustment of the impact fee. Nevertheless, the requirement that the impact fee enactment
include language permitting adjustment of the fee on that basis indicates that a developer is
permitted to submit such information to the City as part of a request to adjust his fee. It also
follows that the city must accept and consider such studies and data.

           B. Whether Or Not The Fee Is Revised Depends On the Established Law, the
              Information Provided, and the Discretion of the City

It is important to note, however, that UTAH CODE § 11-36a-402(1) does not require that a local
jurisdiction adjust its fee once it receives such information, studies, or data. This statute requires
the City to include certain provisions in its enactment. Those provisions, once included in the
enactment, authorize the local jurisdiction to adjust the fee.

Whether or not the fee is adjusted based upon the submitted information, studies, or data,
depends upon the nature of the information provided. If the information provided shows that the
impact fee being charged to that particular developer would violate the existing law, then the
City of course is required adjust its fee to come into compliance with the law. 6 However, when
the information provided simply provides data or explains circumstances that would show that
adjustment of the fee may be equitable, wise, or fair, the decision of whether to adjust the fee
must rest to some degree on the discretion of the City. There may be many reasons why a City
would or would not adjust its impact fee charged to a particular developer. This statute authorizes
them to do so, but does not require them to do so. Thus, the City has discretion in these cases to
adjust the fee. They would do so, presumably after considering all relevant factors, and upon
reaching a determination an adjustment is warranted.

           C. Mr. Miner’s Stated Circumstance Does Not Obligate the City To Adjust His Fee

Mr. Miner argues that he submitted to the City evidence of an unusual circumstance, and that the
City must reduce his impact fee based upon that information. Specifically, Mr. Miner states that
his house was built on an approximately 1.3 acre lot. The Lehi City pressurized irrigation impact
fee is calculated according to lot size – the larger the lot, the larger the fee – and so Mr. Miner’s
pressurized irrigation impact fee was calculated for the full 1.3 acres. Mr. Miner’s unusual
circumstance is that his plot plan shows only 1/3 an acre being developed, with the remaining
acre of his lot remaining undeveloped. Mr. Miner indicates his intention is to not use pressurized
irrigation on the remaining acre of his lot. In addition, Mr. Miner points out that the pressurized
6
 Although submission of studies or data from a developer could be very helpful in determining whether the Impact
Fee being charged to that developer is excessive or illegal, the submission of studies or data by the developer is not a
prerequisite for adjusting the fee. If the fee is found to be illegal or excessive as applied, the fee must be adjusted to
come into compliance with the law whether or not the developer has submitted studies or data.

Advisory Opinion – Miner/City of Lehi
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 22, 2013 Page 6 of 7
irrigation service line is built to irrigate only a 1/3 acre lot and is not big enough to irrigate the
entire lot. Accordingly, Mr. Miner feels that he should be charged pressurized impact fees for
only 1/3 acre and not for the full 1.33 acre lot.

If the City’s pressurized irrigation impact fee calculation is based upon lot size, then the City is
entitled to charge impact fees based upon the size of Mr. Miner’s lot. Nothing can be found to
show such a method of calculation illegal. Moreover, the information and circumstances
provided by Mr. Miner do not render it illegal. Mr. Miner’s current intentions and capabilities
aside, any number of circumstances could change in the future regarding Mr. Miner’s lot that
may impact the pressurized irrigation system. The lot is 1.33 acres. Thus, no reason can be found
to require Lehi City to adjust its impact fee.

The information and special circumstances provided by Mr. Miner, however, are important and
valid considerations. They are within the scope of circumstances that may motivate a City to
adjust its impact fees. Mr. Miner is entitled to provide that information and request an adjustment
of his fees. Lehi City should accept that information and consider adjustment of the fees.
However, Lehi City is not obligated to adjust its impact fees based upon that information. They
are justified in determining that the lot-size method of calculating the impact fee should apply in
this instance.

                                           Conclusion
A challenger to impact fees must articulate why the impact fees are illegal and how proper
application of the impact fee act would result in the imposition of a new fee. This can be a heavy
burden to meet, because impact fees and the law governing them can be complicated.
Nevertheless, this burden must be met in order to mount a successful challenge in order to give a
decision maker a basis on which to decide. Mr. Miner has not met that burden.

Mr. Miner is entitled to submit studies and data to a Lehi City that may show justification to
adjust his impact fee. Lehi City is obligated to receive and consider that information. However,
unless that information shows that the impact fee is excessive or illegal as applied to Mr. Miner,
Lehi city is under no obligation to adjust the fee. Adjustment is within the discretion of the City.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Miner/City of Lehi
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 22, 2013 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion attorney fees
provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage resolution of
disputes. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if those
circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award them.
No party has a right to receive attorney’s fees under the Ombudsman Act. Thus, the
attorney fees provisions, like the entire Advisory Opinion process, should be viewed as a
tool to avoid litigation rather than a litigation strategy.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Connie J. Ashton, City Recorder
              Lehi City
              153 N. 100 East
              Lehi, Utah 84043

On this ___________ Day of October, 2013, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
