                     Advisory Opinion #172
                                   Parties: Tina Kelley, Morgan County
                                           Issued: August 30, 2016

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                                       Interpretation of Ordinances

The Morgan County Council did not amend the County’s zoning map to change
the Commercial Buffer zone to the Business Park zone because it did not follow
the proper procedures required by law to do so. However, despite the ambiguity
created by Ordinance No. CO-16-01, the County Council correctly approved the
applicant’s conditional use permit because a proper application of established
rules of statutory interpretation to relevant provisions in the County Code leads to
the conclusion that the intent of the ordinance amendment was to rename the
Commercial Buffer zone to the Business Park zone, which permits pet
crematoriums as a conditional use.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI     BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director    Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor


                                             ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:               Tina Kelley

        Local Government Entity:                     Morgan County

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:             Steve Ford
                                                     Cottonwood Commercial Properties, LLC

        Type of Property:                            Commercial

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:               August 30, 2016

        Opinion Authored By:                         Jordan S. Cullimore
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                      ISSUE
        Did the Morgan County Council correctly approve a conditional use permit application for a pet
        crematorium?

                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        The Morgan County Council did not amend the County’s zoning map to change the Commercial
        Buffer zone to the Business Park zone because it did not follow the proper procedures required
        by law to do so. However, despite the ambiguity created by Ordinance No. CO-16-01, the
        County Council correctly approved the applicant’s conditional use permit because a proper
        application of established rules of statutory interpretation to relevant provisions in the County
        Code leads to the conclusion that the intent of the ordinance amendment was to rename the
        Commercial Buffer zone to the Business Park zone, which permits pet crematoriums as a
        conditional use.

                                                    REVIEW
        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
        administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
        application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Tina Kelley, on April June 14, 2016. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Jann L. Farris, Morgan County Attorney, 451
South State Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111.

                                           EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Tina Kelley on June 14,
        2016.
     2. Response, with attachments, from Bill Cobabe, Director of Planning and Development
        Services for Morgan County, received June 20, 2016.
     3. Reply from Tina Kelley, received June 24, 2016.

                                          BACKGROUND
On February 2, 2016, the Morgan County Council enacted Ordinance No. CO-16-01, making
changes to, among other sections, Morgan County Code sections 8-5C-1 and 8-5C-3. Section 8-
5C-1 lists the purposes of the various commercial and industrial districts in the County, while
section 8-5C-3 establishes what uses are permitted or conditionally permitted in commercial and
industrial zones. Prior to the enactment of Ordinance No. CO-16-01, section 8-5C-1 listed the
purposes of the following seven districts (the “original districts”): Neighborhood Commercial
(CN), Commercial Shopping (CS), Highway Commercial (CH), General Commercial (CG),
Commercial Buffer (CB), Manufacturing Distribution (MD), and General Industrial (MG).
Section 8-5C-3 listed the permitted and conditionally permitted uses in each of these zoning
districts on a land use table.

According to the submitted materials, Ordinance No. CO-16-01, amended section 8-5C-1 to
eliminate the CS and CH districts, rename the CB district to the Business Park District (BP) with
a clarification of that district’s purpose, and tweak some of the names and abbreviations of the
remaining districts. The five resulting zoning districts (the “resulting districts”) are:
Neighborhood Commercial (NC), General Commercial (GC), Business Park (BP), Light
Manufacturing (LM), and General Industrial (I). The ordinance amendment also changed the
land use table in section 8-5C-3 to reflect the resulting districts and identify which uses are
permitted and conditionally permitted in those districts.

The County zoning map, however, was not amended to reflect zoning district name changes and
consolidations, and the submitted materials give no indication that other references in the County



Advisory Opinion – Tina Kelley
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 30, 2016 Page 2 of 8
Code to the original districts were modified to align with the changes made in sections 8-5C-1
and 8-5C-3.1

It is against this backdrop that Steve Ford, on February 8, 2016, submitted to the County a land
use application for approval of a conditional use permit to operate a pet crematorium in an
existing building at 4090 West 5800 North, Mountain Green (the “Property”). At the time the
application was submitted, the Property, according to the County’s zoning map, was located in
the Commercial Buffer zone. However, as a result of Ordinance No. CO-16-01, the Commercial
Buffer zone was no longer listed on the land use table in section 8-5C-3 of the County Code.
Further, the Business Park zone was listed, and the land use table allowed pet crematoriums in
the Business Park zone as conditional uses.

County staff accepted the application under the stated belief that the County zoning map was
subordinate to the language of the County Code, and since Ordinance No. CO-16-01 apparently
renamed the Commercial Buffer zone to the Business Park zone in parts of the land use
ordinance, this change automatically applied to the zoning map as well. Consequently, staff
determined that a pet crematorium was permitted on the Property, and the application was
scheduled for Planning Commission review.

The Planning Commission considered the application on February 25, 2016. Under the County
Code, the Commission’s role was to make a recommendation on the application to the County
Council, which would act as the land use authority to make a final decision. In February 25
meeting, the Commission decided to postpone the item to the April 14, 2016, Planning
Commission meeting for the stated reason that the County zoning map indicated that the
Property was zoned Commercial Buffer. Since pet crematoriums were not permitted in the
Commercial Buffer zone prior to the enactment of Ordinance No. CO-16-01, the Commission
determined that the application did not comply with the County Code, and the Commission
decided to wait to see if the County Council would change the zoning designation of the Property
to Business Park on the zoning map, which would permit the crematorium.

On April 14, 2016, the Commission again considered the application, and the zoning map had
still not been modified. According to the minutes of the meeting, Commissioner Sessions
indicated that “the current zone for the application is Commercial Buffer, which does not support
crematoriums,” and that “there is no current Business Park zone anywhere in the County.” The
Commission considered further postponing the application. Mr. Ford, however, requested an
answer and decision from the Planning Commission at that time. He did not want the
Commission to postpone the application again. Accordingly, the Commission voted unanimously
to recommend denial of the application to the County Council based on the following findings:

     1. That the current zone for the application is Commercial Buffer and not Business Park as
        stated on the Planner’s Report.

1
  Section 8-5-1 of the County Code still lists the original districts referenced above. Additionally, sections 8-5C-4
and 8-5C-5, regulating height, area, width, frontage, yard, and coverage in commercial and industrial districts, still
list regulations for the original districts. Nothing in the submitted materials, or in the online version of the Morgan
County Code, gives any indication that these sections were updated by Ordinance No. CO-16-01, or subsequent
amendments.
Advisory Opinion – Tina Kelley
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 30, 2016 Page 3 of 8
       2. That crematoriums are not an allowed use in the Commercial Buffer zone.

A third finding was made recommending that the applicant’s fee be refunded because the
application was improperly accepted.

This recommendation was forwarded to the Morgan County Council, which considered the item
at its regularly scheduled meeting on May 3, 2016. The issue of whether Mr. Ford’s property was
located in the Commercial Buffer zone or the Business Park zone was discussed thoroughly
among staff and the Council members, with differing opinions about the intent and effect of
Ordinance No. CO-16-01. Some councilmembers felt that the change to the land use ordinance
did not make any changes to the zoning map, because procedures were never initiated to amend
the map. Other councilmembers agreed with staff’s position that the changes to the land use
ordinance automatically changed zoning designations on the map.

After some discussion, Councilmember Cannon moved to deny the application in accordance
with the Planning Commission’s recommendation, but the motion failed. Subsequently, the
Council went into an executive session.2 When the Council came out of executive session,
Councilmember Ballantyne moved to approve Mr. Ford’s conditional use permit application.
This motion passed by a vote of 4-2 with one abstention.

Tina Kelley, a Morgan County resident, submitted a request for Advisory Opinion to this office
on June 14, 2016, asking us to examine the question of whether the County Council properly
approved Mr. Ford’s conditional use permit application.

                                                     ANALYSIS
The submitted materials clearly indicate a disagreement, and some confusion, among members
of the County Council, Planning Commission, staff, and County residents about the effect of
Ordinance No. CO-16-01. Members of the Planning Commission, some members of the County
Council, and certain residents including the applicant for this Advisory Opinion, understood that
Ordinance No. CO-16-01 only changed the name of zoning districts in the text of the land use
ordinance, and that further action must be taken, through formal amendments to the County
zoning map, to apply the resulting zoning district designations to parcels in the County.

However, County staff asserts that the intent and effect of Ordinance No. CO-16-01 was to
rename the Commercial Buffer zone to the Business Park zone and consolidate the Commercial
Shopping, Highway Commercial, and General Commercial zones into a single “General
Commercial” zone. Specifically, “[i]t was the understanding of staff that the [zoning] map
designations were subordinate to the actual code, and that the designations on the map would
naturally follow the changes made to the code.” Response from Bill Cobabe, July 20, 2016.
Several members of the County Council agreed with this interpretation, which resulted in the
approval of Mr. Ford’s conditional use permit application.




2
    A record of what was discussed in the executive session was not submitted for consideration.
Advisory Opinion – Tina Kelley
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 30, 2016 Page 4 of 8
I.         Morgan County Ordinance No. CO-16-01 Did Not Amend the Morgan County
           Zoning Map.

We first consider the question of whether Ordinance No. CO-16-01 effectively changed the
zoning designation of the Property from Commercial Buffer to Business Park. The Utah Code
provides only one method for amending a County’s zoning map. Subsection 17-27a-503(3) of
State Code provides that a county council “shall comply with the procedure specified in Section
17-27a-502 in preparing and adopting an amendment to a land use ordinance or a zoning map.”
UTAH CODE § 17-27a-503(3) (emphasis added). Section 17-27a-502 indicates that a planning
commission must provide proper notice, hold a public hearing, and consider any written
objections “on a proposed land use ordinance or zoning map.” UTAH CODE § 17-27a-502(1)
(emphasis added). Further, the planning commission must “prepare and recommend to the
legislative body a proposed land use ordinance…and zoning map that represent the planning
commission’s recommendation for regulating the use and development of land within” the
county’s jurisdiction. Id.

After the planning commission forwards a recommendation, including a map if anything on the
zoning map is being changed, the legislative body must “consider each proposed land use
ordinance and zoning map recommended to it by the planning commission, and, after providing
[notice] and holding a public meeting, the legislative body may adopt or reject the proposed
ordinance or map” either as proposed or with revisions. UTAH CODE § 17-27a-502(2).

Based upon the plain language of the above code provisions,3 we conclude that Morgan County,
since it did not provide notice for a zoning map amendment or prepare a map representing any
changes to the Property on the zoning map, did not amend the zoning map to apply the Business
Park zone to the Property. It is clear from the plain language in State Code, that the land use
ordinance and zoning map are distinct but related documents in the County Code, and that
following the proper procedures to change one, does not automatically change the other. If the
County intended to amend the zoning map and change the zoning designations of certain
properties, then it should have prepared a map “representing the planning commission’s
recommendation for regulating the use and development of land” including at least the portion of
the County subject to a change. See UTAH CODE § 17-27a-502(1). This includes not just
boundary changes to the map, but also any changes to text on the map.

Moreover, since local authority to regulate land is delegated to counties by the state through
enabling statutes, the County “must strictly comply with the statute delegating [it] the authority
to act.” Hatch v. Boulder Town Council, 2001 UT App 55 ¶ 7, 21 P.3d 245. Since Morgan County
did not strictly comply with the requirements to amend a zoning map in Utah Code 17-27a-
502(2), it did not amend the County’s zoning map to change the zoning designation of the
Property from Commercial Buffer to Business Park.

The purpose of the map requirement when changing the zoning of a parcel is to “give notice of
the [local jurisdiction’s] zoning proposal so that, before adoption, residents may object or make
suggestions, and after adoption, land purchasers may acquaint themselves with the zoning

3
  “In interpreting the meaning of a statute or ordinance, we begin first by looking to the plain language of the
ordinance.” Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98, ¶ 30, 104 P.3d.
Advisory Opinion – Tina Kelley
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 30, 2016 Page 5 of 8
restriction.” Hatch, 2001 UT App 55 ¶ 8, 21 P.3d 245. A map provides notice to interested parties
of what land will actually be affected by an amendment. A property owner needs to be able to
reference a map and the land use ordinance and determine what regulations apply to his or her
property. This did not happen. Accordingly, because the property procedures were not followed,
the map was not amended. Because the map was not amended, the zoning designation of the
property was not changed.

II.        In Light of Established Rules of Statutory Interpretation, the Morgan County
           Council properly approved Mr. Ford’s Conditional Use Permit Application

The conclusion that the County’s zoning map has not been amended does not resolve the matter.
Even though the County did not amend the zoning map, the submitted materials give no
indication that the text amendment was enacted improperly, so we presume the changes to the
land use ordinance are valid, including the changes to the land use table. This leaves us with an
unmistakable ambiguity between the land use ordinance and the zoning map. The County Code,
as presently constituted, includes a map that locates the Property in the Commercial Buffer zone,
but the land use ordinance does not state what uses are allowed or prohibited in that zone. The
land use table simply does not list the Commercial Buffer zone, as if it did not exist. This
scenario produces an unpredictable and unacceptable result because it prevents a land owner or
purchaser from “acquainting themselves with the zoning restriction[s]” on their property. Id.
Consequently, we must apply established rules of statutory construction to determine how the
Code should be interpreted to determine what rules apply to Mr. Ford’s conditional use permit
application.

           A.          Rules of Statutory Interpretation

Courts apply various rules of statutory construction to determine the correct interpretation of an
ordinance in a given circumstance. As indicated above, ordinance interpretation begins with an
analysis of the plain language of the ordinance. Carrier, 2004 UT 98 ¶ 30, 104 P.3d 1208. The
primary goal of interpretation is “to give effect to the legislative intent, as evidenced by the plain
language, in light of the purpose the statute was meant to achieve.” Foutz v. City of South Jordan,
2004 UT 75, ¶ 11, 100 P.3d 1171. A court’s “primary responsibility in construing legislative
enactments is to give effect to the [legislative body’s] underlying intent.” Perrine v. Kennecott
Mining Corp., 911 P.2d 1290, 1292 (Utah 1996).

Moreover, it is important to “read the plain language of the [ordinance] as a whole, and interpret
its provisions in harmony with other [provisions] in the same chapter and related chapters.”
Miller v. Weaver, 2003 UT 12, ¶17, 66 P.3d 592. Each part or section of an ordinance “should be
construed in connection with every other part or section so as to produce a harmonious whole.”
Id. Further, ordinances should be construed in a manner that renders all parts of the ordinance
“relevant and meaningful,” Foutz, 2004 UT 75, ¶ 11, 100 P.3d 1171. A correct reading should not
“impose an unreasonable and unworkable construction,” Miller, 2003 UT 12, ¶ 19, 66 P.3d 592,
or “render some part of a provision nonsensical or absurd.” Perrine, 911 P.2d at 1292.




Advisory Opinion – Tina Kelley
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 30, 2016 Page 6 of 8
           B.          The Morgan County Council Properly Approved Mr. Ford’s Conditional Use
                       Permit Application

A literal reading of the Code, as presently constituted, leads to the conclusion that the Property
has no use restrictions. The land use table makes no reference to the Commercial Buffer zone, so
the use of land in that zone is therefore unregulated.4 We decline to adopt this interpretation
because it would render “some part of a provision nonsensical or absurd.” Id. The purpose, or
overall scheme, see Miller, 2003 UT 12, ¶ 22, 66 P.3d 592 (examining the language, purpose, and
overall scheme of a statute to reach a correction interpretation), of the land use ordinance and
zoning map is to regulate the use of land to ensure orderly growth and compatibility of nearby
uses. To conclude that the Property’s use is unregulated would contravene this purpose and
produce an unworkable result. The land use ordinance conveys a clear intention to regulate the
use of the Property because the map identifies a zoning designation for the Property. To conclude
that Morgan County intended to create a zone but not impose use restrictions on properties in the
zone is nonsensical.

When the plain language of an ordinance produces an ambiguous or unreasonable interpretation,
the courts may “resort to other modes of construction,” Carrier, 2004 UT 98, ¶ 31, 104 P.3d
1208, and “seek guidance from legislative history and other accepted sources.” N. Fork Special
Serv. Dist. v. Bennion, 2013 UT App 1, ¶ 35, 297 P.3d 624. In doing so, the primary goal
continues to be to “give effect to the [legislative body’s] intent in light of the purpose…the
[ordinance] was meant to achieve.” Carrier, 2004 UT 98, ¶ 31, 104 P.3d 1208. The parties
involved in this matter present planning commission and county council meeting minutes, as
well as staff reports, as “legislative history” that supports positions on both sides of the
argument.

It is important to note that courts may be reticent “to examine the legislative history for added
illumination” into the actual intent of the law, because legislative histories, such as meeting
minutes and staff reports, present “uncertain facts.” See Miller, 2003 UT 12 ¶ 24, 66 P.3d 592.
The legislative process is rarely neat or linear. It involves several individuals with differing
perspectives and intentions. Any law produced by the process is usually a result of compromise
and the reconciliation of several interests. Consequently, it is often difficult to derive a single,
collective legislative intent from documents described as “legislative history”. This reality is
evidenced by the fact that members of the County Planning Commission and Council disagree
about the actual intent of Ordinance No. CO-16-01, and cite to meeting minutes and staff reports
to support their assertions. Consequently, we examine evidence from legislative histories
conservatively, and in context of the resulting enactment.

In that light, we conclude that Mr. Ford’s conditional use permit was properly approved by the
Morgan County Council, because, although the land use ordinance, read in conjunction with the
zoning map, produces an ambiguous result, Ordinance No. CO-16-01, and its accompanying
drafts in staff reports and meeting minutes, provide persuasive evidence that the purpose and
intent of the ordinance amendment was to redesignate property zoned Commercial Buffer to
Business Park. This is clear from drafts of the ordinance that produced the final enactment that

4
  As mentioned in a footnote above, there are still sections of the County Code that address setbacks and other
dimensional requirements in the Commercial Buffer zone.
Advisory Opinion – Tina Kelley
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 30, 2016 Page 7 of 8
became Ordinance No. CO-16-01. In every draft of amended Morgan County Code section 8-5C-
1, the name “Commercial Buffer” was crossed out and replaced with “Business Park”. This is the
clearest evidence that the collective intent of the ordinance amendment was to rename the
Commercial Buffer zone to the Business Park zone. Consequently, because the Business Park
zone, at the time Mr. Ford submitted his permit application, allowed pet crematoriums as a
conditional use, Mr. Ford’s permit was properly approved.5

A final rule of construction uniquely applicable to land use matters further supports this
conclusion. “[B]ecause zoning ordinances are in derogation of a property owner’s common-law
right to unrestricted use of…property, provisions…restricting property uses should be strictly
construed, and provisions permitting property uses should be liberally construed in favor of the
property owner.” Patterson v. Utah County Bd. of Adjustment, 893 P.2d 602, 606 (Utah App.
1995). It follows from this rule that any ambiguities in a land use ordinance should be resolved in
favor of the property owner’s desired use of the property, as we have done here.6

                                                CONCLUSION
The Morgan County Council did not amend the County’s zoning map to change the Commercial
Buffer zone to the Business Park zone because it did not follow the proper procedures required
by law to do so. However, despite the ambiguity created by Ordinance No. CO-16-01, the
County Council correctly approved Mr. Ford’s conditional use permit because a proper
application of established rules of statutory interpretation to relevant provisions in the County
Code leads to the conclusion that the intent of the ordinance amendment was to rename the
Commercial Buffer zone to the Business Park zone, which permits pet crematoriums as a
conditional use.



Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




5
  This opinion does not address the appropriateness of every aspect of the conditional use permit approval, only the
fact that the approval complied with the use requirements of the County Code. Other aspects of the approval were
not contested in the submitted materials.
6
  We note here that this conclusion does not resolve the fact that the land use ordinance and the zoning map do not
agree with one another. The discrepancies need to be reconciled as soon as possible to prevent ongoing confusion
and potentially illegal decisions in the near future.
Advisory Opinion – Tina Kelley
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 30, 2016 Page 8 of 8
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
