                     Advisory Opinion #163
                                            Party: Toquerville City
                                               Issued: 10/8/2015

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                                 Impact Fees

Toquerville City has requested early review of its impact fees. The fee does not
comply with the Impact Fee Act.

A city must identify the system improvements upon which it intends to spend
impact fees in its Impact Fees Facilities Plan. Moreover, a city must identify an
existing level of service, and establish a proposed level of service, for each public
facility. Level of service is a unit of demand or performance standard, and is not
simply an inventory of current facilities.

An impact fee facilities plan and impact fee analysis must show each of the listed
statutory elements in order to comply with the Act. Requirements in the act, such
as the prohibitions on calculating impact fees using current replacement value or
on using impact fees to cure existing deficiencies, must be strictly followed.


                                                DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each
Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was
prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes
or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide
general guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be
considered legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current
laws.




                     The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                                  (801) 530-6391
                     Utah Department of Commerce                                                 1-877-882-4662
                     PO Box 146702                                                           Fax: (801) 530-6338
                     160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                     www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                     Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                         propertyrights@utah.gov
                        State of Utah
                        Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
    Governor
                        OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 SPENCER J. COX         FRANCINE A. GIANI       BRENT N. BATEMAN
Lieutenant Governor     Executive Director      Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                             ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                 Toquerville City

      Local Government Entity:                       Toquerville City

      Scope of Advisory Opinion:                     Early Review: Draft Water/Streets/Parks & Trails
                                                     Impact Fee Facility Plan & Analysis

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 October 8, 2015

      Opinion Authored By:                           Brent N. Bateman
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                     Issues
      Early review of Toquerville City’s Draft Water/Streets/Parks & Trails Impact Fee Facility Plan &
      Analysis.

                                  Summary of Advisory Opinion
      Toquerville City’s Draft Water/Streets/Parks & Trails Impact Fee Facility Plan & Analysis does
      not comply with the Impact Fees Act.

                                                   Review
      A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
      decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
      An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
      administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
      application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
      hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
      neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
      the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
      the courts.
A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Toquerville City July 29, 2015. As a
courtesy, a copy of that request was sent to Ross Ford, Executive Director of the Utah Home
Builders Association, with a courtesy Copy sent to Mari Smith, Executive Director of the
Southern Utah Home Builders Association, on August 5, 2015. No submissions or objections
were received by any party.

                                                   Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

      1. Toquerville City’s Draft Water/Streets/Parks & Trails Impact Fee Facility Plan &
         Analysis, dated May 5, 2015 and prepared by ProValue Engineering, Inc.


                                   Introduction: Early Review of Impact Fees
Toquerville city is located in Washington County, Utah, and has a population of approximately
1,500 persons. Toquerville City has determined a need to update its impact fees, and has worked
to prepare impact fee documents appropriate to their City size and future needs. Prior to
enactment of the fees, the City has requested that this Office review the City’s Draft
Water/Streets/Parks & Trails Impact Fee Facility Plan & Analysis (containing both Toquerville’s
Impact Fee Facilities Plan (“IFFP”) and Impact Fee Analysis (“IFA”)), and opine whether their
impact fee documents comply with the Utah Impact Fees Act. We undertake this review in
accordance with UTAH CODE § 13-43-205(1)(a)(iii).

Early review of an impact fee is a review of the documents and procedures that establish the fee,
and their compliance with the Impact Fees Act. Because the fees have not been collected or
expended, this Advisory Opinion does not end the inquiry into the legality of the actual fees. In
time, as the fees are implemented, the parties should take continual care to ensure that the impact
fees comply with the Impact Fees Act.

Likewise, early review of an impact fee by the Property Rights Ombudsman is limited to a legal
review for compliance with the Impact Fees Act. No attempt is made to review the fees’
accounting and engineering conclusions (beyond a cursory check for obvious errors and legal
compliance). The Ombudsman’s office has neither the capacity nor expertise to verify whether
an impact fee meets the standards of practice for those professions. In addition, all impact fees
are based upon certain data and future projections, such as projected new growth in an area or
projected costs of needed facilities. The legal review undertaken here cannot verify the facts nor
the accuracy of the projections.

                                                   Analysis
The Impact Fees Act is found in Title 11, Chapter 36a of the Utah Code (“Act”). Toquerville
City’s draft Water/Streets/Parks & Trails Impact Fee Facility Plan & Analysis does not comply

Advisory Opinion – Toquerville City Impact Fees
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 8, 2015 Page 2 of 9
with the Act. As detailed below, Toquerville City has either omitted or misinterpreted multiple
requirements from the Act.1

I. A City Must Identify the Public Facilities For Which It Charges Impact Fees

The Act requires that an Impact Fee Facilities Plan identify system improvements upon which
impact fees will be spent:

            A local political subdivision may expend impact fees only for a system improvement:
            (a) identified in the impact fee facilities plan; and
            (b) for the specific public facility type for which the fee was collected.

UTAH CODE § 11-36a-602. Thus, if a system improvement is not identified in the IFFP, impact
fees cannot be expended thereon. The word “identified” by its plain meaning requires that the
IFFP indicate a particular facility. The identification must at least be sufficient to determine
whether the new public facility is a permissible public facility under the Act.2 The Act states that
impact fees apply to “only the following impact fee facilities that have a life expectancy of 10 or
more years and are owned or operated by or on behalf of a local political subdivision or private
entity.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(16). Facilities must be named and located sufficiently to
determine facility type, life span, and ownership. If the impact fees are to be expended on
existing facilities, the extent of the excess capacity in those facilities must be identified in order
to comply with the Act.

The Toquerville City draft IFFP does not identify the facilities upon which the City intends to
spend impact fees. As well as can be assessed, Toquerville City intends to use some impact fees
for buy-in to excess capacity in existing facilities, and some for general expansion of its system
as growth occurs (i.e., build roads as needed). The City does not identify the specific existing
facilities with excess capacity, nor the new facilities required to serve new growth. This method
does not sufficiently identify the system improvements as required by the Act. Toquerville City
must identify its public facilities, both newly built facilities and existing excess capacity, upon
which it intends to expend impact fees.

II. Existing and Future Levels of Service are Based Upon Demand, Not Inventory

The Toquerville City draft Impact Fee documents show a fundamental misunderstanding of the
concept of level of service. Neither current nor projected levels of service are calculated
correctly, and thus do not comply with the Impact Fees Act. Because level of service is a critical
component of several required calculations, the failure to properly analyze level of service casts
doubt upon many of the calculations provided.
1
  Admittedly, the documents under review are in draft form, and could yet be revised to comply with the Act. The
stage of drafting — how close these documents are to completion and enactment — is unknown. It’s noted that the
documents seem unfinished in several respects.
2
  Permissible facilities are limited to (a) water rights and water supply, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities;
(b) wastewater collection and treatment facilities; (c) storm water, drainage, and flood control facilities; (d)
municipal power facilities; (e) roadway facilities; (f) parks, recreation facilities, open space, and trails; (g) public
safety facilities; or (h) environmental mitigation.

Advisory Opinion – Toquerville City Impact Fees
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 8, 2015 Page 3 of 9
UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302(1) requires an IFFP to “identify the existing level of service,” and to
“establish a proposed level of service.”3 The Impact Fees Act defines “level of service” as “the
defined performance standard or unit of demand for each capital component of a public facility
within a service area.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(11). Level of service is not simply an inventory
of facilities. It requires consideration of the demand placed by the current population upon those
facilities—i.e. how the facilities are used. Performance or demand upon a particular facility may
be measured in multiple ways.4 Level of service can be expressed, for example, as a ratio: acres
of park per 1000 residents, or acre feet of water per ERU. Public safety level of service is often
measured in average response times. Roads level of service is usually a factor of traffic density,
speed, etc., reflecting the level of service standards from AASHTO manuals (with traffic level A
being the best and F being the worst). As a performance standard, a level of service of a storm
system may be the capability to handle a flow of x/gpm, or a 10 year storm event for a three hour
duration. In all cases, level of service requires a showing of performance or demand—how the
available facilities are used by the public.

Toquerville City’s draft IFFP calculates level of service primarily as a simple inventory of
facilities, and does not show performance or demand. Toquerville’s draft level of service
calculation for roads provides a straightforward illustration. The current level of service is simply
shown as 13.93 miles of asphalt roads in the City. This provides an inventory of roads in the city,
but it does nothing to show demand; how those roads are used, and more importantly, whether
those roads currently have any capacity to absorb future growth. Moreover, the projected level of
service is not expressed as miles of road.5 Rather it is shown as a construction cross section of
road, showing width and construction materials. This is an inventory. The Act requires, for both
present and proposed levels of service, a showing of performance or demand.

Other level of service calculations in the IFFP suffer similarly. When Toquerville’s draft IFFP
does make some attempt to tie demand into the level of service calculation, the calculation still
results in an inventory of present capacity. The Toquerville City IFFP states when reviewing the
Parks & Trails level of service:

            The park system for the City is currently build [sic] to handle 750 residential
            homes. With the 16.62 acres of park, there are 45 homes per acre of park available
            in the City. This is the current level of service.

The City expresses its inventory in existing facilities as acres of park (16.62). The City then
states (without foundation) that its parks can handle 750 homes. Dividing 750 by 16.62 yields a
level of service of 45 homes per acre. But this calculation is based upon the number of homes the
parks were built to serve. Demand is a calculation of the number of homes that the city parks DO

3
  The Act requires that the proposed level of service be shown in the IFFP. Contrary to the Act, Toquerville City
attempts to show the proposed level of service in the IFA.
4
  The Act does not dictate any particular method for calculating a level of service. Thus, multiple alternative
methods of measuring demand are permissible under the Act.
5
  Current and proposed levels of service must both be calculated using the same method. Otherwise, they cannot be
compared

Advisory Opinion – Toquerville City Impact Fees
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 8, 2015 Page 4 of 9
serve. Previously, the City stated that based upon water connections there are 495 (or 515 or 520,
see below) homes in the City, a far fewer number of homes than the parks were built to handle.
Thus the demand for parks in the City, or the current level of service, is 495 homes divided by
16.62 acres of parks, which equals approximately 30 homes per acre of parks. This ratio more
accurately reflects the current level of service.6

Likewise, the Trail System Infrastructure current level of service is not a level of service
calculation at all. The level of service is expressed only as miles of trails. No calculation tying
that to population or demand is attempted:

            There are over 24 miles of unimproved trails now in Toquerville City and these
            are the ones on the City’s proposed trails plan. There are many more miles that are
            not shown on this map. There is currently about 4,000 feet of improved trails in
            the City.

This level of service calculation considers inventory, not demand. The remaining level of service
calculations in Toquerville City’s impact fee documents suffer similarly. Both current and
proposed levels of service must be expressed in terms of performance or demand.7 Thus,
Toquerville City’s impact fees do not comply with the Act.

III. The IFFP and the IFA Must Show All of the Statutorily Required Contents.

In order to establish a legal impact fee, Toquerville City must prepare and adopt both an IFFP
and an IFA. Although these documents may be combined into one publication, they are separate
documents. The Act requires that both documents include certain considerations and calculations.
If each of those items is not shown in its respective document, then the documents do not comply
with the Act.

                  A. The Impact Fee Facilities Plan

UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302 lists several items that must be identified within an IFFP:

            An impact fee facilities plan shall:
               (i) identify the existing level of service;
               (ii) establish a proposed level of service;
               (iii) identify any excess capacity to accommodate future growth at the
                    proposed level of service;


6
  The calculation of 45 homes per acre, based upon the number of homes that the parks were supposedly built to
handle, could be used to show excess capacity in parks. New growth could be charged impact fees to buy into that
capacity, based upon the actual costs to construct that excess capacity. UTAH CODE § 13-43-202(1)(a)(iii). But that
calculation of buy-in impact fees cannot be made unless current and proposed levels of service are correctly
calculated.
7
  A proposed level of service may diminish or equal the existing level of service. UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302(1)(b).
 The proposed level of service may exceed the existing level of service only if means other than impact fees are
used. UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302(1)(c).

Advisory Opinion – Toquerville City Impact Fees
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 8, 2015 Page 5 of 9
                  (iv) identify demands placed upon existing public facilities by new
                      development activity at the proposed level of service; and
                  (v) identify the means by which the political subdivision or private entity will
                      meet those growth demands.

As discussed above, the Toquerville City impact fee documents attempt to identify the existing
and proposed level of service, but incorrectly express those in terms of inventory rather than
demand. Moreover, the Toquerville City IFFP does not include the other three required items. In
various places, the IFFP mentions that it has excess capacity by showing that its facilities were
built to accommodate a greater population than currently exists, but it does not identify the
portions of that excess capacity that can accommodate future growth at the proposed level of
service. Most importantly, the IFFP fails to include requirement (v), by not identifying how
growth demands will be met, using either existing capacity, dedication of facilities, construction
of new facilities, etc. The IFFP’s primary objective is to “determine the public facilities required
to serve development resulting from new development activity.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-301.
Toquerville City’s IFFP does not do this.

                  B. The Impact Fee Analysis

An impact fee must also include an Impact Fee Analysis. Therein, the data and information from
the IFFP and projections about future demand from development determine the maximum fee
that can be imposed. UTAH CODE § 11-36a-304 requires that an Impact Fee Analysis

            (a)      identify the anticipated impact on or consumption of any existing capacity
                     of a public facility by the anticipated development activity;
            (b)      identify the anticipated impact on system improvements required by the
                     anticipated development activity to maintain the established level of service
                     for each public facility;
            (c)      subject to Subsection (2), demonstrate how the anticipated impacts
                     described in Subsections (1)(a) and (b) are reasonably related to the
                     anticipated development activity;
            (d)      estimate the proportionate share of:
                     (i) the costs for existing capacity that will be recouped; and
                     (ii) the costs of impacts on system improvements that are reasonably related
                          to the new development activity; and
            (e)      based on the requirements of this chapter, identify how the impact fee was
                     calculated.

No real attempt can be detected in Toquerville’s draft IFA to address most of these issues.
Instead, the IFA portion of Toquerville’s document attempts to establish a proposed level of
service (which should be established in the IFFP), and then sets forth an impact fee based upon
the estimated costs to reach that proposed level. This does not address the requirements of the
IFA and thus does not comply with the Act. In order to create a legal impact fee, Toquerville City
must specifically address each of these statutory requirements for each fee.


Advisory Opinion – Toquerville City Impact Fees
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 8, 2015 Page 6 of 9
IV. Costs for Existing Capacity Must Reflect Actual Expenditures and Must be Distributed
    Proportionately Between New Growth and Existing Residents

The Impact Fees Act allows a local government to charge impact fees for buy-in to existing
capacity. UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302(1)(a)(iii). However, the buy-in is permitted on a cost
recovery basis only. In other words, a City may only charge impact fees to recoup amounts
actually expended in establishing the existing facilities. UTAH CODE § 11-36a-202(1)(a)(iii). The
Act prohibits collection of impact fees on any basis other than actual expenditures. Impact fees
are never calculated on a present-replacement-value basis.

The Toquerville draft IFA appears to calculate some of its impact fees based upon the present day
value of the facilities, rather than to recoup what the City actually spent on the facilities. Table V-
F on page 23, for example, shows the impact fee calculation for the parks facilities. This appears
to calculate the present value cost of all the facilities associated with the existing parks. Nothing
can be found to illustrate whether these figures, used in calculating the impact fee for the existing
parks, shows actual expenditures or the present values. The table strongly indicates that it
represents present values, since no distinction is made between various parks and equipment
purchased and built at various times. The act requires an examination of what actually went into
establishment of the parks, not what the park facilities are worth to replace.

Likewise, the trails impact fee establishes a price per mile of existing trail. Nothing indicates
what the City actually spent to acquire or construct the trails. This is impermissible under the
Act. A local government may only collect impact fees for existing capacity to recoup costs
actually incurred in establishing the capacity.

Moreover, the cost for each facility is to be distributed among all users, including existing
residents and anticipated new growth. New growth pays its share, but only its proportionate
share. See UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1). Once existing capacity is exhausted, and once the City
recoups new growth’s share of the actual expenditures used in establishing that existing capacity,
impact fees can no longer be collected for that capacity. If growth continues, new facilities and
new impact fees should be established. The Toquerville City draft impact fees do not comply
with these mandatory principles.

V. Impact Fees May Not be Used to Cure Existing Deficiencies

Impact fees may only be spent on new facilities made necessary by new growth. UTAH CODE §
11-36a-102(8)(a). The Act prohibits imposing an impact fee to cure system deficiencies. UTAH
CODE § 11-36a-202(1)(a)(i). On page 10, Toquerville City states that it has sufficient water
pumps for all anticipated growth. However, the City finds that an additional back-up water pump
will be needed, and states that impact fees should be expended on that. This is an impermissible
expenditure of impact fees for system deficiencies. A back-up pump will not create new capacity,
and is not made necessary by new growth. The back-up water pump would be needed to serve
existing development. Thus, the back-up pump is an existing deficiency and not eligible for
impact fees.



Advisory Opinion – Toquerville City Impact Fees
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 8, 2015 Page 7 of 9
Likewise on page 13, the IFA indicates that impact fees are going to be used to repair the water
pressure problem at junction 89. Nothing has been included to show that new growth makes this
expenditure necessary. If the water pressure problem exists prior to the burdens on the system
caused by anticipated development activity,8 it is an existing deficiency. Impact fees cannot be
used to cure existing deficiencies.

VI. The Draft Documents are Incomplete

In addition to the items discussed above, the Toquerville City draft IFFP and IFA contain
numerous internal inconsistencies, unproven or unexplained assumptions, and incomplete
calculations. These must be addressed prior to enactment of the fee. A brief discussion of several
of these follows. Others may exist.

• Present Demographics
Critical to any calculation of impact fees is the establishment of present population and existing
units. The Toquerville City impact fee documents are very inconsistent in their calculation and
use of these numbers throughout. On page 2, the City indicates that it intends to determine the
number of residences within its borders using the number of customers that pay for culinary
water.9 However, the number of residential connections shown in the IFFP is not consistent. Near
the top of page 2, the IFFP indicates that there are 495 users tied to the culinary water system.
But later on the same page, the documents states that there are 515 residential connections. 495 is
used again on page 7. Page 10 indicates that there are 495 ERUs, where previously 495 is
indicated to be the number of actual residential connections. Immediately thereafter the number
of equivalent residential connections is shown in the table as 515. On page 10 and several times
thereafter, 2015 ERUS are also shown as 520. These inconsistencies are unexplained.

• Projected Growth Rate
In calculating its future population, Toquerville indicates that its projected growth rate is 3.87%.
However, apart from indicating the number is used by the “State of Utah” and future populations
are based upon a “DEA Estimate” the IFFP does not establish the basis for that growth rate
calculation. No information is provided regarding the source of that number. Further, nothing is
provided to show whether there are any factors that might influence that growth rate, such as
remaining developable land or expected annexations.




8
  Should the current water pressure be sufficient to serve existing development, and the water pressure problem will
only occur when new development attaches to the system, it may be said that the facilities to improve the water
pressure are facilities made necessary by new growth, and are thus eligible for impact fees.
9 The IFFP contains little discussion about the demographic makeup of Toquerville City. Thus, whether the number

of residential culinary water hookups as the basis for the City’s impact fees complies with the Act cannot be
assessed. It may be valid if the City contains only single family detached residences, and no high density residential,
commercial, industrial, or agricultural users connect to the culinary water system. The demographics of the City
should be established in the IFFP, and a calculation of present users should generally consider all users. By itself, the
discussion regarding Toquerville Heights, and their unique water usage situation, calls the validity of this calculation
into doubt.

Advisory Opinion – Toquerville City Impact Fees
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 8, 2015 Page 8 of 9
• Assumptions and Incomplete Data
In several locations throughout Toquerville’s impact fee documents, assumptions are made and
data shown is incomplete. These assumptions should be verified and data should be completed
prior to enactment of the fee, so that an accurate fee can be assessed. On page 7, the document
states that due to the fact that the majority of properties in Toquerville Heights are xeriscaped, “it
is assumed that each residential connection in Toquerville Heights and Westfield Road has an
average of 0.10 acres of land that is irrigated with culinary water.” No basis is shown for that
assumption. On page 9, Toquerville states that it will analyze water rights using 300 gallons per
user, without any foundation to show the source of that number. In addition, Table V-A on page
17 contains incomplete data.

                                                  Conclusion
Toquerville City’s Draft Water/Streets/Parks & Trails Impact Fee Facility Plan & Analysis is
deficient or out of compliance with the Act in multiple ways. Extensive revision may bring it into
compliance and allow Toquerville City to charge a justifiable and defensible impact fee.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Toquerville City Impact Fees
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 8, 2015 Page 9 of 9
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:


                      Renee Garner, City Recorder/Clerk
                      Toquerville City
                      212 Toquer Blvd
                      PO Box 27
                      Toquerville, Utah 84774


On this 9th day of October, 2015, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
