                     Advisory Opinion #192
                         Parties: Cedar Hills Farm Land, LLC; Cedar Hills City
                                         Issued: December 28, 2017

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                                     Conditional Use Applications
                                  Entitlement to Application Approval

By law, conditions imposed upon a conditional use permit must accord with
applicable standards adopted by ordinance. Accordingly, the City may only
impose conditions on the applicant’s development proposal to the extent that the
conditions mitigate the use’s reasonably anticipated detrimental effects in
accordance with the City Code’s applicable standards. To the extent the City’s
conditions do not mitigate detrimental effects or accord with applicable ordinance
standards, they are invalid.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI     BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director    Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION
        Advisory Opinion Requested By:               Bruce R. Baird, Attorney for Cedar Hills Farm
                                                     Land, LLC, et al.

        Local Government Entity:                     City of Cedar Hills

        Type of Property:                            Congregate Care Facility

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:               December 28, 2017

        Opinion Authored By:                         Jordan S. Cullimore
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                      ISSUE
        Are the conditions imposed by Cedar Hills City on the applicant’s proposed conditional use
        permit lawful?


                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        By law, conditions imposed upon a conditional use permit must accord with applicable standards
        adopted by ordinance. Accordingly, Cedar Hills may only impose conditions on the applicant’s
        development proposal to the extent that the conditions mitigate the use’s reasonably anticipated
        detrimental effects in accordance with the City Code’s applicable standards. To the extent the
        City’s conditions do not mitigate detrimental effects or accord with applicable ordinance
        standards, they are invalid.

                                                    REVIEW
        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
        administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
        application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
        hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
        neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Bruce R. Baird on December 16, 2015. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Colleen Mulvey, City Recorder, City of Cedar
Hills, at 10246 North Canyon Road, Cedar Hills, Utah. The City received the request on
December 21, 2015.

                                               EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

      1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Bruce R. Baird,
         Attorney for Cedar Hills Farm Land, LLC, et al., on December 16, 2015.
      2. Supplemental Submission Materials submitted by Bruce A. Baird, Attorney for Cedar
         Hills Farm Land, LLC, et al., on October 13, 2016.
      3. Reply from Loyal C. Hulme, Attorney for the City of Cedar Hills, received March 6,
         2017.
      4. Response from Bruce R. Baird, Attorney for Cedar Hills Farm Land, LLC, et al., received
         March 14, 2017.

                                              BACKGROUND
Sometime prior to April 2013, Cedar Hills Farm Land, LLC (“CHFL”) and the Lyle J. Smart
Limited Family Partnership (the “Owner”) began discussions with Cedar Hills City (the “City”)
staff and elected officials regarding a proposal to develop the Owner’s property (the “Property”).
The Property is located in the City’s Shopping Center (SC-1) Zone and is further regulated by
two subzones: the Neighborhood Retail subzone and Mixed Use Office/Retail subzone. The
parties agree that the proposed facility that is the subject of this Opinion is wholly located in, and
therefore regulated by, the Mixed Use Office/Retail subzone within the SC-1 Zone.

After initial discussions with the City, CHFL began the formal application and review process on
April 25, 2013 when it submitted an initial development plan to the City. The plan was presented
to the City’s Planning Commission on that same day. The plan proposed development and
construction of a 5-story senior living facility on the Owner’s property and also envisioned an
overall plan that included a retail component consisting of a movie theater, shops, and sit down
restaurants on adjacent, City-owned property.

Multiple meetings were subsequently held with staff, elected and appointed officials. The project
was modified and adjusted along the way in response to regulatory requirements, as well as
requests by elected and appointed officials and the public. By the March 19, 2014 City Council
meeting the proposed facility was being referred to as a “congregate care facility” instead of
simply a “senior living facility.”



Advisory Opinion – Smart Farms, LLC, et al.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2017        Page 2 of 17
As the development review process moved forward and public input was given, confusion
apparently developed regarding the nature of the facility and how it would operate once
constructed. CHFL considered modifying the proposal to fit neatly within the conditionally
permitted use category of “Assisted living, convalescence home” to dispel such confusion.
However, according to CHFL, residents and City officials encouraged CHFL to move forward
with the congregate care model as a more desirable option.

Before moving forward with a congregate care facility, however, CHFL sought assurances that a
congregate care use would be approved under the City’s existing land use regulations. On
December 2, 2014 the City Council and Planning Commission held a joint work session with
City staff and legal counsel. In that meeting, the City discussed whether CHFL’s proposed
congregate care facility was “substantially the same” as the Design Guidelines’ conditionally
permitted “Assisted living, convalescence home” use category since “congregate care” was not
specifically listed.1

Following the joint work session the City Council held its regularly scheduled Council meeting
and formally considered the question on the agenda. After discussing the item in the public
meeting, the Council voted 3-2 to categorize CHFL’s proposed congregate care use as “similar in
nature” to an assisted living facility. The Council further concluded that the proposed use “shall
be treated as an assisted living facility or convalescence care center in interpreting” the City’s
Design Guidelines.2

Subsequent meetings were held involving CHFL, City staff, and the elected and appointed
officials in which the plans were iteratively reviewed and revised. CHFL attempted to comply
with the City Code, the Design Guidelines, as well as various requests by elected and appointed
officials and residents of the City. On August 18, 2015, the Planning Commission considered the
product of this process and concluded that the proposal complied with all applicable
requirements. As an advisory body to the City’s Land Use Authority, which in this case was the
City Council, the Planning Commission recommended approval of the proposed project.

The City Council considered the Planning Commission’s recommendation on September 22,
2015. In response to several comments from City residents who were opposed to the project for
various reasons, the Council voted 4-1 to continue the item to a later date.

The later date arrived on November 17, 2015 when the City Council again met to consider
CHFL’s proposal. After additional review and consideration, the City Council approved CHFL’s
proposed site plan subject to fourteen conditions.

CHFL subsequently appealed the decision imposing the conditions to the City’s appeal authority,
the Board of Adjustment, arguing that the imposed conditions are “absurd, illegal, punitive,
facially insupportable” and that as such, the approval effectively operates as a denial of the
1
  The Design Guidelines state that “[i]f a proposed use is not listed in the [permitted and conditional uses table] but
it can be shown to be substantially the same as an existing item in the chart, then it can be treated as the item in the
chart.” Design Guidelines, p. 7.
2
  The motion, in its entirety was as follows: “To approve a finding of fact that a congregate care facility is similar in
nature to an assisted living facility and shall be treated as an assisted living facility or convalescence care center in
interpreting the Guidelines for the Design and Review of Planned Commercial Development Projects.”
Advisory Opinion – Smart Farms, LLC, et al.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2017        Page 3 of 17
conditional use permit. More specifically, CHFL argues that the conditions imposed by the City
Council lack connection to any reasonably anticipated detrimental effects and are not necessary
to mitigate detrimental effects in accordance with any applicable standards in the City’s
ordinances or Design Guidelines. CHFL and the City agreed to seek an Advisory Opinion from
the Ombudsman’s office before proceeding with the appeal process.

In its position brief to the Ombudsman’s Office, the City voluntarily withdrew conditions 1, 2, 3,
and 13. The remaining applicable conditions are as follows3:

      4. The Rosegate Development should be limited to no more than 165 residential units.
         Currently, the densest residential zone in the city (the PR 3.4 Zone) allows for only 6
         units per structure. The Rosegate building is an anomaly in the city with a proposed 291
         units in the structure. Any more than 165 units on the subject property would be
         irresponsible planning practices. This condition will ensure that the property has an
         intensity that is less than the use in the neighborhood retail sub-district, a requirement
         listed in the design guidelines. In addition, this condition must take into account the
         reality that there is little public transportation in our area, so residents will need to drive
         regularly, causing additional intensity far beyond an assisted living building and even
         more than a typical senior housing development that might be more conveniently located
         to nearby shops and services. The Rosegate development should be compatible with the
         surrounding properties and the City’s intent to create a viable, mixed use commercial
         center for the reasons described in concern 2 and concern 3.
      5. The Rosegate development must include on-site services for the convenience of its
         residents, so they can age in place. These services should be provided as direct services,
         provided directly by management of the housing facility. These services should include a
         restaurant that provides three meals a day seven days a week; home health care services
         from qualified professionals, including help with medications, bathing, dressing, and
         other hospice needs; physical therapy; other routine health care services; fitness classes;
         regular social activities; and a shuttle to nearby destinations that are too far for walking.
         This will ensure the development qualifies for a conditional use that is “substantially
         similar to” assisted living, as discussed in concern 4.
      6. The Rosegate development must include 1.4 parking stalls per residential unit. The
         developer’s description of the proposed use is more closely akin to a senior apartment
         complex than an assisted living center. Accordingly, for the reasons discussed in concern
         4 and concern 5 of my letter, the number of residential units must be reduced, in order to
         accommodate active senior living.
      7. Outdoor overnight parking of vehicles shall be prohibited in areas adjacent to single
         family homes, with covered parking provided in these areas. This restriction is imposed
         in accordance with the City Council’s power to take reasonable steps to preserve the
         integrity of the General Plan and the intent of the mixed-use sub-district in the
         commercial zone, and to minimize effects on residents as discussed in concern 5.
      8. In accordance with the Design Guidelines, the landscaping and open areas shall create a
         park-like atmosphere with linked pedestrian corridors designed to promote pedestrian
         activity. For the reasons discussed in concern 6 of my letter, the landscaping needs to

3
  The conditions were adopted from a letter written by one of the councilmembers who had several concerns with
the proposal, hence the first-person narrative format.
Advisory Opinion – Smart Farms, LLC, et al.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2017        Page 4 of 17
          promote integration with the surrounding property uses and not limit the open-space and
          pedestrian traffic areas to the interior courtyards of the facility. The landscaping should
          provide open walkable space between separated buildings. Currently, the landscaping is
          not accessible to the pedestrian uses from surrounding neighborhoods and is not linked in
          a way to create the pedestrian corridors and park-like environment required by the Design
          Guidelines.
      9. The Rosegate development should be constructed in phases that include both commercial
          and residential development, consistent with the primary intent of the sub-district being a
          mixed-use development. The proposed phased construction is inappropriate because the
          primary purpose of the development is to place residential use in the heart of the City’s
          commercial center, the commercial aspect of the development is ancillary to the overall
          development, the timing of the commercial portion of the development is uncertain, and
          for each of the other reasons discussed in concern 7. This mitigates the potential impact
          of the City being left with a building purely residential in nature in a commercial zone.
          Commercial uses must have adequate parking, separate from residential uses.
      10. The Rosegate development should be reduced in scale, size and intensity in order to
          mitigate the impacts on the City’s public safety services. No more than 165 units should
          be permitted in the development for the reasons discussed in concern 8, and in keeping
          with concerns listed in concern 3 and 4.
      11. Each residential unit shall be occupied by at least one resident that is 55 years of age or
          older, and there shall be no residents younger than 25. This mitigates the concern for
          traffic impacts and crowding in schools. For the reasons discussed in concern 9,
          reasonable rental restrictions are required in order to prevent an erosion of the living
          accommodations and services available to the senior community.
      12. To add that these conditions be in the CC&Rs and that lights in parking areas adjacent to
          single family homes should be low to the ground in bollards, rather than on light poles.
      14. That all review and approval must be made by both the Planning Commission and this
          Council and prior to the review by Council the approved conditions must have legal
          review.

Finally, CHFL contends that its project must be approved without conditions because, as a
threshold matter, the City’s zoning ordinances and land use regulation scheme are fundamentally
flawed and invalid.4




4
  CHFL also asserts that because of incurable bias on the part of the City Council acting as the land use authority, the
Council’s decision imposing conditions must be set aside and the Planning Commission’s decision should be
followed. Whether or not the City Council displayed sufficient bias to disqualify it from making decisions on
CHFL’s conditional use permit application is an inquiry that exceeds the scope of this Office’s authority and of this
Advisory Opinion. Accordingly, we limit our review to the questions involving the validity, applicability, and effect
of the City’s regulatory scheme and the legality of the conditions imposed on CHFL’s conditional use permit.
Advisory Opinion – Smart Farms, LLC, et al.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2017        Page 5 of 17
                                                   ANALYSIS
I.          VALIDITY AND APPLICABILITY OF THE CITY’S REGULATORY SCHEME TO CHFL’S
            CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION

CHFL argues that the City’s SC-1 Zone is fundamentally flawed, and therefore invalid and
inapplicable to CHFL’s development proposal because the zone lacks any permitted uses, and
instead only allows conditionally permitted uses. To support its claim that such a zoning district
is invalid, CHFL cites at length to a 2008 Wisconsin Supreme Court opinion, Town of Rhine v.
Bizzell, 751 N.W.2d 780 (Wisc. 2008).

In Bizzell, the Wisconsin Supreme Court considered a zoning district that explicitly included “no
permitted uses.” Any use of the land within the district was authorized only by conditional use
permit. Applying substantive due process principles, the court in Bizzell concluded that a “no
permitted uses zone” was, under the Wisconsin Constitution, unconstitutional on its face. The
court reasoned that the regulatory scheme was “arbitrary and unreasonable in that it precludes
any use as of right in the [zoning district] and such limitation bears no substantial relation to the
public health, safety, morals or general welfare.” Bizzell, 751 N.W.2d at 793.

Bizzell differs from the present case. Even assuming that Utah courts would adopt the same
reasoning and conclusions in Bizzell under a similar set of circumstances, that case involved a
zoning district that allowed no permitted uses of right. Here, the City’s SC-1 zone allows very
few permitted uses.5 Since zoning districts, such as single family residential districts, routinely
allow few permitted uses in addition to some conditional uses, and since the parties have
presented no relevant authority that a zoning district allowing very few permitted uses is
fundamentally flawed or invalid, Bizzell does not apply.6 Accordingly, the City’s SC-1 zone has a
presumption of validity in accordance with established Utah law.7

CHFL further argues that its development proposal is not subject to the City’s Design Guidelines
because the Design Guidelines were enacted by resolution instead of by ordinance. Moreover,

5
  The text of the SC-1 zone allows the following as permitted uses of right: (1) Agriculture and the production of
crops in the field; (2) Planned commercial development projects subject to the applicable ordinance; and (3) Public
utility rights of way and related utility facilities. Arguably, the SC-1 zone meaningfully allows only one permitted
use. All uses within a planned commercial development projects are conditionally permitted. Consequently, it is
appropriate to conclude that planned commercial development projects are, effectively, conditionally permitted.
Additionally, allowing public utility rights of way and related facilities is not a very meaningful allowance for
private property owners since such uses are almost universally allowed impliedly as ancillary to material land use
categories. Nonetheless, the SC-1 zone does allow agricultural uses as permitted of right.
6
  The court in Bizzell even impliedly acknowledges that since the “no permitted uses” ordinance under consideration
had since been modified to permit just two use categories of right—agricultural and recreational—the issue had been
rendered moot. See Bizzell, 751 N.W.2d at 799. Moreover, the Bizzell court indicates that its holding does not create
a categorical rule, and that even a “no permitted uses” zoning district may be valid if the circumstances lead to the
conclusion that the regulatory scheme is rationally related to a legitimate government interest.
7
  See Gayland v. Salt Lake County, 358 P.2d 633 (Utah 1961) (In zoning, as in any legislative action, the functioning
authority has wide discretion. Its action is endowed with a presumption of validity….); Thurston v. Cache County,
626 P.2d 440 (Utah 1981) ([T]he zoning authority is afforded a broad latitude of discretion, and its decisions are
afforded a strong presumption of validity.); Bradley v. Payson City Corp., 2003 UT 16, ¶28 (A [legislative body’s]
ultimate decision, of course, reflects legislative preferences that are entitled to a presumption of validity.)
Advisory Opinion – Smart Farms, LLC, et al.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2017        Page 6 of 17
CHFL asserts that much of the language in the Design Guidelines is unenforceable because the
provisions are overly vague and ambiguous.

The latter argument, that the Guidelines are unenforceable due to vagueness and ambiguity will
be addressed in greater detail below. Regarding the former argument, that the Guidelines are
unenforceable because they were enacted by resolution instead of ordinance, State law provides
specific guidance. The City points out that UTAH CODE § 10-3-711(2)(a), discussing publication
and posting requirements for municipal ordinances, provides that:

            Any ordinance, code or book…relating to building or safety standards, municipal
            functions, administration, control, or regulations, may be adopted and shall take
            effect without further publication or posting, if reference is made to the code or
            book and at least one copy has been filed for use and examination by the public in
            the office of the recorder or clerk of the city or town prior to adoption of the
            ordinance by the governing body.

UTAH CODE § 10-3-711(2)(a) (emphasis added).

In the case of the City’s Design Guidelines, the article in the City Code governing Planned
Commercial Development projects references the Design Guidelines and requires that projects
comply with the Guidelines.8 The fact that the Guidelines were passed by resolution instead of
by ordinance is, in this case, irrelevant. CHFL has not presented any evidence that the above
provision allowing adoption by reference is inapplicable in this case. We therefore conclude the
Guidelines are valid and the City had authority to require compliance with the Guidelines, as
well as with the SC-1 Zoning District. Cedar Hills’ regulatory scheme is appropriate under
applicable Utah law.

II.         CITY’S REVIEW AND CONSIDERATION OF CHFL’S CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT

The bulk of CHFL’s remaining arguments relate to the City’s procedural and substantive
regulations used to review and approve CHFL’s conditional use permit with conditions. CHFL
argues that the City imposed conditions that lack connection to any reasonably anticipated
detrimental effects. CHFL also argues that the conditions are not necessary to mitigate
detrimental effects in accordance with any applicable standards in the City’s Ordinances or
Design Guidelines. Accordingly, we will consider the individual conditions imposed by the City
on CHFL’s development proposal to determine whether the conditions are reasonable and
designed to mitigate anticipated detrimental impacts in accordance with applicable standards.




8
 Specifically, the Code states that “[b]uildings, structures and uses of land listed as conditional may be permitted
within a planned commercial development project, subject to compliance with applicable requirements of this title
and those contained within the document “Guidelines For The Design And Review Of Planned Commercial
Development Projects”, and after approval has been given by the designated review agency.” CEDAR HILLS
MUNICIPAL CODE § 10-6A-2(A).
Advisory Opinion – Smart Farms, LLC, et al.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2017        Page 7 of 17
            A.          Law Governing Conditional Uses

State law gives local governments authority to designate certain uses as conditional uses within
their individual zoning districts. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-507(1). State Code defines a conditional
use as “a land use that, because of its unique characteristics or potential impact on the
municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent land uses, may not be compatible in some areas
or may be compatible only if certain conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the
detrimental impacts.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-103(5).

Consequently, in addition to ensuring that the proposed conditional use complies with all
general, relevant, non-discretionary requirements in the local code that any other permitted use
must comply with in the same zoning district, a municipality may review and permit conditional
uses in accordance with the following:

            (1)         A land use ordinance may include conditional uses and provisions for
                        conditional uses that require compliance with standards set forth in an
                        applicable ordinance.
            (2)         (a)    A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are
                               proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated
                               detrimental effects of the proposed use in accordance with
                               applicable standards.
                        (b)    If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed
                               conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal
                               or the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance
                               with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-507. In accordance with state law, a municipality must adopt applicable
standards for conditional uses. These standards guide and limit the municipality’s discretion in
imposing specific conditions in addition to generally applicable code requirements.

When the municipality receives a conditional use permit application, the city may review the
local code’s standards applicable to conditional uses to determine whether, in light of the
standards, the proposed use will produce any “detrimental impacts” on the municipality
generally, or on the surrounding uses and property owners specifically. Any determinations must
be supported by substantial evidence in the record. If the decision makers are unable to identify
any reasonably anticipated detrimental effects, additional conditions are unnecessary and cannot
be imposed.

Once detrimental impacts are identified, the municipality possesses discretion to impose
reasonable conditions specifically to mitigate the anticipated impacts and achieve compliance
with applicable standards. The conditions must be related to the purposes and goals of the
applicable standards, and must address the impacts in a reasonable manner. Finally, the
conditions must also be supported by substantial evidence in the record.9 Wadsworth v. West
Jordan City, 2000 UT App 49, ¶ 9.

9
 Substantial evidence is “that quantum and quality of relevant evidence that is adequate to convince a reasonable
mind to support a conclusion.” First Nat’l Bank of Boston v. County Bd. of Equalization, 799 P.2d 1163, 1165 (Utah
Advisory Opinion – Smart Farms, LLC, et al.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2017        Page 8 of 17
                        1.          Applicable Standards for Conditional Uses Generally

CHFL asserts that the City violated the law because it imposed conditions on the proposed
congregate care facility unrelated to applicable standards in the Cedar Hills City Code. CHFL
argues that in some instances an applicable standard simply does not exist to justify a particular
condition.

Most local ordinances contain standards addressing conditional use permits generally. These
general standards often relate to health, safety, general welfare, design, open space, aesthetics,
etc. Effective standards go further than this and identify specific considerations (traffic, access,
noise, lighting, buffering, compatibility, etc.). Useful standards also articulate purposes or goals
related to such considerations to guide the decision maker in identifying detrimental impacts.

The Utah Code does not define “applicable standard,” nor does it explain the degree of
specificity a standard must reach to be legally sufficient in guiding the local decision maker.
Clear, well-crafted standards effectively guide the local land use authority and produce relatively
predictable and unsurprising results. However, the law does not presently require that every
standard be flawlessly specific and objective. Although those make the best standards, the legal
threshold a standard must satisfy to be valid is much lower.

The Utah Supreme Court addressed what constitutes an appropriate “applicable standard” in the
context of a conditional use permit in Thurston v. Cache County, 626 P.2d 440 (Utah 1981). The
standard under review in Thurston required the decision maker to ensure that “the proposed use
will not be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons residing in the vicinity,
or injurious to the property in the vicinity.” Thurston v. Cache County, 626 P.2d 440, 444 (Utah
1981). The applicant for a conditional use permit in Thurston argued that this standard provided
“insufficient guidelines…for the issuance or denial of conditional use permits,” Id. at 443, and
that the standard left the city “completely without legislative limitations to issue or deny permits
according to its own desires….” Id.

In response to this argument, the Court concluded that the County’s standard “adequately
channel[ed] the discretionary activities of the Planning Commission….” Id. at 444. Moreover,
the court explained:

            While it is true that a zoning ordinance must set some ascertainable boundaries on
            the exercise of discretion by a zoning authority, such boundaries are not required
            to be unduly rigid or detailed. A generalized exposition of overall standards or
            policy goals suffices to direct the inquiry and deliberation of the zoning authority,
            and to permit appellate review of its decision.

1990). Moreover, and in this context, a court will uphold the City’s determination as supported by substantial
evidence as long as the decision maker has carefully reviewed and considered the submitted application and
evidence such as site plan drawings, elevations, material samples, architectural renderings, technical studies, etc.,
and made a reasonable, evidence-based determination in accordance with applicable ordinance provisions. See
Springville Citizens v. City of Springville, 1999 UT 25, ¶¶ 25-30, 979 P.2d 332 (the city’s decision was based upon
substantial evidence, and was not arbitrary or capricious, because it held required meetings, carefully considered the
materials submitted, and reached a decision that a reasonable person could have reached).
Advisory Opinion – Smart Farms, LLC, et al.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2017        Page 9 of 17
Id. at 443-444. This reasoning applies to applicable standards intended to guide decision makers
in identifying detrimental impacts and imposing reasonable conditions to mitigate the impacts.

                        2.          Applicable Standards in Cedar Hills’ Land Use Regulations

It appears that at the time CHFL submitted its land use application for the proposed congregate
care facility, the Cedar Hills Municipal Code (the “City Code”) did not contain a section
specifically articulating applicable standards for all conditional uses within the City. CHFL’s
development proposal was reviewed as a “planned commercial development project” under
Cedar Hills Municipal Code Chapter 10-6A. The record indicates that the Council categorized
the proposed congregate care facility as “similar in nature” to the conditionally permitted
“Assisted living, convalescence home” use category. The Council also concluded that the use
would “be treated as an assisted living facility or convalescence center in interpreting” the City’s
land use regulations.

CHFL and the City disagree about the effect of the City Council’s December 2, 2014 finding that
CHFL’s project would be treated as an assisted living facility. CHFL argues that the
determination officially categorized the proposed use as an assisted living facility and that it was
entitled to be treated as such for purposes of development application review.

The City, however, argues that in designating CHFL’s development proposal as “similar in
nature” to assisted living the City simply acknowledged that, in concept, the proposed care
facility was similar to an assisted living facility in that they two uses functioned similarly and
provided similar features and services. Some of the elected officials appear to believe that the
City’s authority to categorize land uses and regulate their location within the jurisdiction also
grants authority to tailor the use’s business plan to comport with the Council’s vision and
perception of how the use should operate once established.

Moreover, some of the Councilmembers apparently concluded that they could reserve ultimate
judgment on use categorization until final approval to ensure they could impose conditions on
the care facility’s business model and day-to-day operations, if necessary. This is illustrated by
some of the conditions ultimately imposed. For reasons discussed in detail below, this is an
improper use of conditions in the conditional use context.

Notwithstanding the contrary opinion of some Councilmembers, the plain language of the City’s
motion at the December 2, 2014 Council meeting indicates that the Council, as a whole,
determined that for purposes of reviewing CHFL’s development proposal for compliance with
applicable land use regulations, the proposed congregate care facility is categorized as an
“Assisted living, convalescence home” use, which is a conditionally permitted use.

Regarding conditional uses, Chapter 10-6A states that “uses of land listed as conditional may be
permitted within a planned commercial development project, subject to compliance with
applicable requirements of this title and those contained within” the City’s Design Guidelines.
CEDAR HILLS MUNICIPAL CODE §10-6A-2(A).


Advisory Opinion – Smart Farms, LLC, et al.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2017        Page 10 of 17
There are no additional references to conditional use standards in Chapter 10-6A, but the Design
Guidelines provides the following:

            [C]onditions shall be imposed to mitigate or alleviate any expected or foreseeable
            adverse impacts the proposed conditional use may have on adjacent uses or the
            surrounding area. Typically, conditions of approval address issues such as noise,
            lighting, traffic and aesthetics. Even so, the City shall impose any and all
            conditions they find to be necessary to protect the integrity and quality of the
            master planned area or the surrounding neighborhoods.

CEDAR HILLS DESIGN GUIDELINES § 3.2.

In addition to this generally applicable standard for conditional uses, the Design Guidelines grant
the land use authority further discretion to, on a case by case basis, impose specific conditions on
any use, conditional or permitted, subject to the Guidelines:

            The following specific conditions may be applied to various permitted or
            conditional uses. Any of the below prescribed conditions, and additional
            conditions, may be applied to any permitted or conditional uses at the discretion
            of the Planning Commission and/or City Council.

                  a. any bay doors shall be screened, to the greatest extent possible, from
                     residential areas and public streets
                  b. the outdoor storage of materials and debris is prohibited
                  c. outdoor overnight storage of vehicles is prohibited
                  d. any drive through window and sufficient vehicular staking shall be
                     screened, to the greatest extent possible, from residential areas and
                     public streets
                  e. volume control devices, at drive through windows, shall be utilized so
                     as to limit any audio impact on the surrounding area
                  f. refuse collection shall be performed so often as to prevent the
                     development of offensive odors
                  g. the outdoor storage of materials is prohibited with the exception of live
                     plants that may be stored outside, at the discretion of the Planning
                     Commission and/or City Council, but only in clearly defined locations
                  h. the keeping of animals outside is prohibited

CEDAR HILLS DESIGN GUIDELINES § 3.2.

Finally, the Design Guidelines contain various sections that include both rules and standards10
regarding building size and orientation, architecture, landscaping, lighting, parking, signage, etc.

10
  For a detailed explanation regarding the legal distinction between a rule and a standard, see Chapter 17. Rules and
Standards, in The Legal Analyst: A Tool Kit for Thinking about the Law. In short, “[t]he general difference between a
rule and a standard [is]: the consequences of a rule are triggered once we settle the facts; a standard requires a
judgment about the facts before it kicks in.” Ward Farnsworth, The Legal Analyst: A Tool Kit for Thinking about the
Law, at 164 (2007).
Advisory Opinion – Smart Farms, LLC, et al.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2017        Page 11 of 17
When imposing a condition on a conditionally permitted use pursuant to UTAH CODE §10-9a-
507, the discretion rests with the designated land use authority, which may exercise its judgment
to impose reasonable conditions. Such conditions must reasonably mitigate legitimately
identified detrimental effects in accordance with a clearly applicable standard designed to
address such issues. Moreover, as indicated above, each condition must be supported by
substantial evidence in the record.

In light of these principles, we turn to the individual conditions imposed by the City on CHFL’s
proposal to determine whether the conditions are reasonable and designed to mitigate anticipated
detrimental impacts in accordance with the standards listed above. Each condition’s connection
to the relevant applicable standard must be clearly ascertainable to avoid being deemed
unassociated with the applicable standard, and therefore improper. Moreover, any identified
connection cannot be a strained or ambiguous one. Finally, and as indicated previously, each
condition must be supported by substantial evidence in the record and may not be based simply
on individual preferences or other unrelated or improper bases.

            B.          Analysis of Conditions Imposed by Cedar Hills City

Condition No. 4: The Rosegate Development should be limited to no more than 165 residential
units. Currently, the densest residential zone in the city (the PR 3.4 Zone) allows for only 6
units per structure. The Rosegate building is an anomaly in the city with a proposed 291 units
in the structure. Any more than 165 units on the subject property would be irresponsible
planning practices. This condition will ensure that the property has an intensity that is less
than the use in the neighborhood retail sub-district, a requirement listed in the design
guidelines. In addition, this condition must take into account the reality that there is little
public transportation in our area, so residents will need to drive regularly, causing additional
intensity far beyond an assisted living building and even more than a typical senior housing
development that might be more conveniently located to nearby shops and services. The
Rosegate development should be compatible with the surrounding properties and the City’s
intent to create a viable, mixed use commercial center for the reasons described in concern 2
and concern 3.

The City’s land use regulations do not directly regulate density. The Code specifically provides
that “[t]he intent and purpose of the large scale development provisions [governing the proposed
project] shall be to...[p]ermit developers to vary density…on a project by project basis, rather
than on the basis of traditional zoning concepts.” CEDAR HILLS MUNICIPAL CODE § 10-6-1(B).

Accordingly, any condition numerically limiting density must be connected to an identified
detrimental effect in light of the City’s applicable standard for conditional uses. The applicable
standard allows conditions to “mitigate or alleviate any expected or foreseeable adverse impacts”
the use may have on adjacent uses or the surrounding area related to such concerns as noise,
lighting, traffic, etc. There is no evidence in the record that, in this case, the proposed density
will produce detrimental effects or adverse impacts relative to these concerns. No evidence was
presented that the proposed density would produce noise that would exceed an unacceptable


Advisory Opinion – Smart Farms, LLC, et al.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2017        Page 12 of 17
threshold, or that the existing or proposed transportation infrastructure would not be able to
accommodate the traffic impact associated with the density, etc.

Instead, the justifications and evidence used to limit the number of units to 165 instead of the
proposed 291 were related to concerns that the project proposal was too intense, and that the
proposed density seemed unreasonable and not comparable to or congruous with existing
development in the City. These concerns stemmed from provisions in the Design Guidelines
discussing undefined notions of intensity, atmosphere, and congruity with the overall area. The
165-unit limit was derived by looking to an adjacent care facility and calculating a similar
density. The condition attempts to advance a preference of lower density without a legal
justification for doing so.

Perceived dissimilarity to adjacent uses is not a detrimental effect in light of the applicable
standard, nor is a perceived difference in intensity. There is no evidence in the record that a 291-
unit facility will inherently constitute a detrimental use of land relative to adjacent uses or the
surrounding area. Since the record provides no evidence that limiting the density to 165 units is
necessary to mitigate detrimental effects or impacts in accordance with the City Code’s
applicable standards, the condition is unlawful, and may not be enforced.

Condition No. 5: The Rosegate development must include on-site services for the convenience
of its residents, so they can age in place. These services should be provided as direct services,
provided directly by management of the housing facility. These services should include a
restaurant that provides three meals a day seven days a week; home health care services from
qualified professionals, including help with medications, bathing, dressing, and other hospice
needs; physical therapy; other routine health care services; fitness classes; regular social
activities; and a shuttle to nearby destinations that are too far for walking. This will ensure the
development qualifies for a conditional use that is “substantially similar to” assisted living, as
discussed in concern 4.

This condition does not attempt to mitigate detrimental effects of the proposed use of land in
light of the applicable ordinance standards. It appears to relate back to certain concerns
expressed by Councilmembers in the December 2, 2014 City Council meeting. In that meeting,
some Councilmembers expressed concern that the congregate care facility, as proposed, would
not operate or be sufficiently similar to as an assisted living facility. Nonetheless, the Council, by
majority vote, made an unambiguous finding that for the purpose of development review and
approval the development proposal would be reviewed and regulated as an assisted living
facility.

This condition appears to attempt to further address some Councilmembers’ concerns related to
the facility’s business model and how they envision it should operate. Effectively, the condition
seeks to mandate the facility’s business plan to ensure it will operate as certain Councilmembers
envision that it should. The condition, however, does not address land use impacts or attempt to
mitigate detrimental effects in accordance with applicable standards designed to address land use
impacts. This is an inappropriate use of conditions in the conditional use context.

Use categories in land use ordinances exist to identify which use types are compatible in a given
zoning district. Moreover, they exist to enable the local government to determine which
Advisory Opinion – Smart Farms, LLC, et al.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2017        Page 13 of 17
regulations will govern development of the project proposal. Use categories do not exist to
enable the local government to micromanage the use and determine its business model. Such a
practice exceeds the realm of land use regulation.

Consequently, the condition is unlawful and may not be enforced.

Condition No. 6: The Rosegate development must include 1.4 parking stalls per residential
unit. The developer’s description of the proposed use is more closely akin to a senior
apartment complex than an assisted living center. Accordingly, for the reasons discussed in
concern 4 and concern 5 of my letter, the number of residential units must be reduced, in
order to accommodate active senior living.

The parties appear to agree that the City Code does not impose a base parking requirement for
the proposed use. Adequate parking is an appropriate traffic concern related to the City’s
applicable conditional use standard. See CEDAR HILLS DESIGN GUIDELINES § 3.2. Accordingly,
the City may consider the characteristics of the proposed use and apply a reasonable parking
standard to address traffic concerns. As long as the City’s condition imposing a standard of 1.4
stalls per residential unit is supported by substantial evidence, it is appropriate and will not be
disturbed by a court.

The Council reviewed the applicant’s proposal, became familiar with its general characteristics,
and determined that a multi-family apartment parking standard would accommodate the facility’s
parking needs better than the standard proposed by CHFL. In reaching this conclusion, the
Council considered the unique characteristics and services of the proposed use, the demographic
that would occupy the facility, and the surrounding environment.

The Council supported its decision with definitions and evidence presented in a parking
generation study produced by a reputable engineering firm indicating that an appropriate parking
standard for an apartment-type use is 1.4 per unit. This is enough relevant evidence to convince a
reasonable mind to support the conclusion the City reached. See Bradley v. Payson City, 2003
UT 16, ¶ 15. A court will not weigh the evidence anew to determine whether the evidence relied
upon for the decision was the best or most convincing evidence.11 Consequently, the imposed
condition is appropriate.

Condition No. 7: Outdoor overnight parking of vehicles shall be prohibited in areas adjacent
to single family homes, with covered parking provided in these areas. This restriction is
imposed in accordance with the City Council’s power to take reasonable steps to preserve the
integrity of the General Plan and the intent of the mixed-use sub-district in the commercial
zone, and to minimize effects on residents as discussed in concern 5.



11
  Arguably, the parking study prepared for CHFL, also by a reputable engineering firm, more closely analyzed the
characteristics of the proposed use, while the City’s study spoke in generalities. This may indicate that CHFL
produced a better quality parking study. While this may be true, it does not obligate the City to choose one valid
parking study over another, in light of all the evidence. As long as the substantial evidence standard is met, the land
use authority may exercise its judgment and discretion in determining which evidence is more persuasive.
Advisory Opinion – Smart Farms, LLC, et al.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2017        Page 14 of 17
The Design Guidelines specifically permit the land use authority to impose a condition
prohibiting outdoor overnight storage of vehicles. While it is apparent that this condition, on a
site-wide basis, is intended for commercial development, it may be applied to any conditional
use if it will mitigate detrimental effects in accordance with the applicable standards.

Here, it is admittedly difficult to see how prohibiting outdoor storage of vehicles adjacent to
residential dwellings mitigates a detrimental effect. The Council cites light and noise as
concerns, but parked vehicles do not usually have their lights on, nor are they running. The same
justifications and evidence were provided for the covered parking requirement, and the
relationship seems strained in that regard as well.

Regardless, a court would likely find it reasonable to infer that prohibiting parking adjacent to
residential uses and requiring covered parking may have the effect of reducing occasional and
intermittent headlights through windows, and may reduce intermittent vehicle noises in adjacent
residential areas. Consequently, the condition would likely not be disturbed by a court, and is
appropriate.

Condition No. 8: In accordance with the Design Guidelines, the landscaping and open areas
shall create a park-like atmosphere with linked pedestrian corridors designed to promote
pedestrian activity. For the reasons discussed in concern 6 of my letter, the landscaping needs
to promote integration with the surrounding property uses and not limit the open-space and
pedestrian traffic areas to the interior courtyards of the facility. The landscaping should
provide open walkable space between separated buildings. Currently, the landscaping is not
accessible to the pedestrian uses from surrounding neighborhoods and is not linked in a way
to create the pedestrian corridors and park-like environment required by the Design
Guidelines.

This condition does not mitigate detrimental effects of the proposed care facility. The standards
used to justify this condition are intended and designed to simply advance preferences, goals,
aspirations, or legislative purposes, not mitigate detrimental effects of a proposed land use. Since
the standards are not intended to mitigate detrimental effects, they fall outside the purview of the
conditional use permit scheme outlined in UTAH CODE § 10-9a-507.

Instead, the established common law principle that any ambiguities in a land use ordinance
should be resolved in favor of the property owner’s desired use applies.12 A local government is
obligated to approve an applicant’s proposed interpretation of such a standard if the applicant’s
interpretation is reasonable and appropriate in light of the ordinance’s plain language.13As long

12
   “[B]ecause zoning ordinances are in derogation of a property owner’s common-law right to unrestricted use
of…property, provisions…restricting property uses should be strictly construed, and provisions permitting property
uses should be liberally construed in favor of the property owner.” Patterson v. Utah County Bd. of Adjustment, 893
P.2d 602, 606 (Utah App. 1995).
13
   Ordinance interpretation begins with an analysis of the ordinance’s plain language. Carrier v. Salt Lake County,
2004 UT 98, ¶ 30, 104 P.3d 1208. The primary goal of interpretation is “to give effect to the legislative intent, as
evidenced by the plain language, in light of the purpose the statute was meant to achieve.” Foutz v. City of South
Jordan, 2004 UT 75, ¶ 11, 100 P.3d 1171 (emphasis added). “When the plain meaning of the statute can be discerned
from its language, no other interpretive tools are needed.” Selman v. Box Elder County, 2011 UT 18, ¶ 18, 251 P.3d
804.
Advisory Opinion – Smart Farms, LLC, et al.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2017        Page 15 of 17
as the applicant’s proposal arguably fulfills the implied or stated purposes and goals of the
standard, the City may not impose additional requirements or conditions.

Consequently, the City inappropriately imposed this condition. Here, City staff and the Planning
Commission previously concluded that the proposal fulfilled the landscaping and walkability
goals of the Design Guidelines. This provides sufficient evidence to support the conclusion that
CHFL’s proposal adequately fulfills the intent of the standard and the City may not impose
additional conditions on the proposed configuration.14

Condition No. 9: The Rosegate development should be constructed in phases that include both
commercial and residential development, consistent with the primary intent of the sub-district
being a mixed-use development. The proposed phased construction is inappropriate because
the primary purpose of the development is to place residential use in the heart of the City’s
commercial center, the commercial aspect of the development is ancillary to the overall
development, the timing of the commercial portion of the development is uncertain, and for
each of the other reasons discussed in concern 7. This mitigates the potential impact of the
City being left with a building purely residential in nature in a commercial zone. Commercial
uses must have adequate parking, separate from residential uses.

This condition does not attempt to mitigate a detrimental effect of the proposed congregate care
facility, but instead attempts to dictate what the developer’s project must include. It also attempts
to dictate timing and sequencing of the development, arguably in a manner unsubstantiated by
market forces. The timing and sequencing of a project does not constitute a detrimental effect of
the proposed land use on adjacent uses or the surrounding area once constructed. Accordingly,
this is an improper use of conditions in the conditional use context, and may not be enforced.

Condition No. 10: The Rosegate development should be reduced in scale, size and intensity in
order to mitigate the impacts on the City’s public safety services. No more than 165 units
should be permitted in the development for the reasons discussed in concern 8, and in keeping
with concerns listed in concern 3 and 4.

All new development places some additional burden on public safety services. The question here
is whether the proposed use at the proposed density would impose a detrimental effect on public
safety services that could not be mitigated by reasonable conditions. This condition does not
address this question. Instead, it mandates a reduction in density.

The record gives no indication that CHFL’s proposed density would impose a detrimental effect
on public safety services that could not be mitigated with reasonable conditions. The only
evidence presented was in the form of concerns that the proposal would increase the burden on
the City’s services by a certain magnitude. There was no evidence that these increases would
create undue burden on the service providers. If it could be shown that excessive burdens would

14
   Moreover, imposing a condition that requires the property owner to allow the general public to access pedestrian
thoroughfares likely amounts to an exaction, and would need to satisfy the rough proportionality analysis advanced
by the U.S. Supreme Court in Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825 (1987) and Dolan v. City of
Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994). Since the condition is inappropriate, however, there is no need to further address this
issue.
Advisory Opinion – Smart Farms, LLC, et al.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2017        Page 16 of 17
result, and services could not be adequately provided, the City could require the facility to offset
such costs and burdens. But there is no evidence in the record that the effects of a 291-unit
facility could not be mitigated, and that the only solution would be to require a lower density.
Consequently the condition is improper and may not be enforced.

Condition No. 11: Each residential unit shall be occupied by at least one resident that is 55
years of age or older, and there shall be no residents younger than 25. This mitigates the
concern for traffic impacts and crowding in schools. For the reasons discussed in concern 9,
reasonable rental restrictions are required in order to prevent an erosion of the living
accommodations and services available to the senior community.

The Council supports this condition with the conclusion that limiting the age of residents to the
determined range will ensure that students and others with cars do not occupy the proposed
facility. There is no evidence in the record, however, that such drivers would produce a
detrimental effect in excess of that produced by drivers within the defined age range. Since the
condition is not associated with a detrimental effect in light of applicable standards, and since it
is not supported by substantial evidence, it is unlawful and may not be enforced.

Condition No. 12: To add that these conditions be in the CC&Rs and that lights in parking
areas adjacent to single family homes should be low to the ground in bollards, rather than on
light poles.

The City’s conditional use standard allows conditions to mitigate detrimental effects related to
lighting. The record contains discussions and substantial evidence that low elevation lighting
adjacent to residential uses may reduce detrimental effects related to parking lot lighting.
Consequently, the condition is lawful and appropriate.

Condition No. 14: That all review and approval must be made by both the Planning
Commission and this Council and prior to the review by Council the approved conditions must
have legal review.

Condition 14 appears to simply restate a process that is already required by the City Code and
the City’s existing development review process. It is therefore unnecessary.

                                              CONCLUSION
The City may only impose reasonable condition on CHFL’s development proposal to the extent
that the conditions mitigate the use’s reasonably anticipated detrimental effects in accordance
with the City Code’s applicable standard for conditional uses. We have provided an analysis of
the extent to which each of the conditions the City has imposed complies with these standards.



Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


Advisory Opinion – Smart Farms, LLC, et al.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2017        Page 17 of 17
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                      Colleen A. Mulvey
                      City Recorder, City of Cedar Hills
                      10246 N. Canyon Road
                      Cedar Hills, UT 84062

On this ___________ Day of _______, 2017, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
