                   Advisory Opinion #149
                             Parties: Larry Jacobson and Herriman City
                                       Issued: December 5, 2014

                                         TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                           Appealing Land Use Decisions
                 Entitlement to Application Approval (Vested Rights)
                              Exactions on Development

A local government may regulate density in a separate provision from lot size.
Development requirements may be derived by reference to a general plan. If an
ordinance allows a range of allowable density, there must be objective standards
to guide the choice of the density ultimately allowed. Vested rights must be based
on an entire zoning ordinance, not on selected passages. If one provision is
impacted or limited by another, vested rights must be based on the two provisions
read together. The Utah Supreme Court has indicated that a land use applicant
has two options to pursue claims from a land use decision: An appeal as provided
in § 801 of LUDMA, or a suit to recover damages filed directly in district court.




                                              DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of
each Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the
Opinion was prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered
because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be
advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections afforded
to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be
directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                   The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                             (801) 530-6391
                   Utah Department of Commerce                                            1-877-882-4662
                   PO Box 146702                                                      Fax: (801) 530-6338
                   160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                    propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 SPENCER J. COX           FRANCINE A. GIANI       BRENT N. BATEMAN
Lieutenant Governor       Executive Director      Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




                                               ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                   Larry Jacobson

      Local Government Entity:                         City of Herriman

      Property Owner:                                  Larry Jacobson

      Type of Property:                                Residential Subdivision

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                   December 5, 2014

      Opinion Authored By:                             Elliot R. Lawrence
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       Issues
      May a City refer to its general plan to establish allowable density for new residential
      development?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
      Local governments have broad discretion to regulate new development, and promote the general
      welfare. Establishing limits on the number of units allowed, or the density, is well within a local
      government’s authority. A land use ordinance may refer to and apply provisions from a general
      plan, as long as the provisions are clear, and there are subjective standards to guide decision-
      makers.

      A property owner may claim a vested right to develop by complying with zoning ordinances, but
      the extent of the right must be based on the totality of the ordinance. A vested right may not be
      claimed on individual passages which might be impacted by other sections of the ordinance. A
      harmonious reading of all applicable sections determines the extent of the development’s vested
      rights.

      The Utah Supreme Court has established two options for property owners to challenge a land use
      decision: The administrative appeal process found in § 801 of LUDMA, and by a legal claim
filed directly in district court. However, appellate courts have not yet fully explained how the
two options might relate procedurally.

                                                    Review

A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Larry Jacobson on September 22, 2014.
A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to J. Lynn Crane, Mayor of Herriman, at 13011
South Pioneer Street, Herriman, Utah. According to the return receipt, the City received the
Request on September 25, 2014.

                                                  Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Larry Jacobson,
                 received by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman on September 22, 2014.
     2.          Response from Herriman, submitted by John N. Brems, Attorney for the City,
                 received October 8, 2014.
     3.          Additional information submitted by Larry Jacobson, emailed on November 12, 2014.

                                                  Background
Larry Jacobson owns a 3.2 acre parcel located at approximately 7004 West Gina Road (13600
South) in Herriman. Mr. Jacobson sought approval to develop a residential subdivision, known as
“Sedona Estates,” consisting of 10 lots. 1 He submitted an application, and paid the City’s fee on
July 14, 2014. The City’s Planning Commission conducted a public hearing on the application on
August 7. On August 21 the Commission granted approval for an 8-lot subdivision.2 The
Commission’s written decision was sent to Mr. Jacobson on August 25. Although Mr. Jacobson

1
  According to the City, Mr. Jacobson received approval for a larger subdivision in 2007. However, the approval
expired because the final plat was not recorded. The 2014 application for Sedona Estates is on a smaller portion of
the property involved in the earlier proposal.
2
  The 8 lots included an existing home on the parcel. In other words, the Planning Commission approved seven new
lots, along with a lot for the existing home.

Advisory Opinion – Jacobson/Herriman
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 5, 2014 Page 2 of 8
disagrees with the decision, he did not submit an appeal. 3 Because he did not appeal the Planning
Commission’s decision, the City states that it must stand. 4

Mr. Jacobson objects to the Planning Commission’s decision, and claims that he is entitled to at
least 10 lots on the parcel. The City’s zoning regulation for the property establishes a minimum
lot size of ¼ acre. Based on that size, Mr. Jacobson argues that there could be as many as 12 lots
on the property. 5

The City, however, points out that its subdivision ordinance (separate from its zoning
regulations) requires that the number of lots in a new subdivision comply with the “intent and
purpose” of the City’s general plan. According to the City, its general plan designates Mr.
Jacobson’s property as “low density,” allowing 1.8 to 2.5 units per acre. The “intent and purpose”
of the general plan thus would allow between 5 and 8 units on the property, depending upon the
density level used. 6 The Planning Commission approved the maximum number of lots that
could be allowed using that approach. The City did not explain why it adopted the maximum
density level.

The subdivision ordinance establishes the allowable density by referring to the general plan, the
City explains, while the zoning ordinance provides the minimum size for individual lots. The
general plan is thus incorporated into the City’s subdivision requirements, and development is
subject to terms of that plan.7 Mr. Jacobson disputes the City’s position, and argues that a general
plan is a guideline only, and not an enforceable ordinance.

     I.       Property Owners May Pursue Claims Against Local Governments Without
              Following the Land Use Appeal Process.

Because a property owner may pursue claims related to a land use decision without following the
land use appeal process, the issues raised in Mr. Jacobson’s Request for Advisory Opinion are
not necessarily moot. The appeal process established in the Land Use, Development, and
Management Act (“LUDMA”) is not the exclusive legal pathway to challenge a land use
decision. Property owners “have two options when confronted with an unfavorable . . . land use
decision. They can either file a petition for review, pursuant to [§ 801 of LUDMA], or they may
file a complaint against the land use authority, which may include a variety of claims, including




3
  The City states that Mr. Jacobson could have appealed the decision to its appeal authority, and that the appeal
should have been filed within 10 days of the decision.
4
  The City also argues that an Advisory Opinion would be moot, because the Planning Commission’s decision
cannot be appealed.
5
  3.2 acres divided by .25 acres per lot equals 12.8 lots.
6
  1.8 units per acre multiplied by 3.2 acres equals 5.76 units; and 2.5 units per acre multiplied by 3.2 acres equals 8
units.
7
  In addition, the City’s ordinances provide that if there are conflicts between development requirements (like the
situation involving the subdivision ordinance and the zoning ordinance), the more restrictive provision applies. In
this case, the more restrictive provision allows 8 lots instead of 10.

Advisory Opinion – Jacobson/Herriman
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 5, 2014 Page 3 of 8
constitutional claims.” Petersen v. Riverton City, 2010 UT 58, ¶ 27, 243 P.3d 1261, 1268
(emphasis added). 8

In Petersen, the property owners challenged a city’s decision denying a rezoning request. The
Petersens claimed that the city treated them differently than other similarly-situated property
owners, in violation of the Equal Protection Clause. 9 They filed a petition for review with the
district court, following the requirements of § 10-9a-801 of the Utah Code (a “§ 801 Appeal”).
Because the decision dealt with rezoning, the trial court applied the “reasonably debatable”
standard of review, rather than the stricter “substantial evidence” standard. The Petersens also
requested that the court allow them to conduct discovery and introduce new evidence. 10 The trial
court denied the Petersen’s request, and upheld the city’s decision.

The Utah Supreme Court affirmed the trial court, including its decision denying additional
discovery and evidence. The Court pointed out that § 801 limited a trial court’s review to the
administrative record. As stated above, the Court held that the Petersens had the option of filing a
claim against the city instead of the § 801 Appeal. If the Petersens had chosen to file a claim, it
could have conducted discovery and introduced new evidence.

The Court did not elaborate further on an owner’s options to file a claim instead of a § 801
Appeal. The language used indicates that an owner must choose one of the two—it does not
appear possible that an owner may use both options to challenge a decision. It also appears that
an owner must have some sort of claim tied to the land use decision, such as a taking, another
type of constitutional or statutory violation, or a tort. 11

In short, the courthouse door is not necessarily barred shut to Mr. Jacobson’s claims. This
Opinion does not state that Mr. Jacobson could successfully sue the City, but only notes the
possibility that a claim could be filed. It remains to be seen how Utah’s courts implement the
“parallel” options available to property owners. Since there is a possibility that Mr. Jacobson
could pursue a claim against the City, the analysis in this Opinion cannot be considered moot.




8
   But see Holladay Towne Center, LLC v. Holladay City, 2008 UT App 301, ¶ 8, 192 P.3d 302, 304-05. (Denying
claims because property owner did not follow the LUDMA § 801 appeal procedure.) The Holladay Towne Center
decision (from the Utah Court of Appeals) was not discussed in Petersen, but it must be subordinated to the more
recent decision by the Utah Supreme Court.
9
   Petersen v. Riverton City, 2010 UT 58, ¶ 5, 243 P.3d 1261, 1264. The Equal Protection Clause is found in the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution. The Petersens also argued that the city’s decision denied them
Due Process.
10
   Id., 2010 UT 58, ¶¶ 6-7, 243 P.3d at 1264. In a § 801 Appeal, the court reviews the administrative record of the
proceedings, including any transcript of public hearings. The trial court does not accept evidence outside of the
record, except in very limited circumstances. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-801(8)(a)(i).
11
    See Petersen, 2010 UT 58, ¶ 27, 243 P.3d at 1268-69. After the Utah Supreme Court’s decision, the Petersens
unsuccessfully pursued similar claims in Federal Court. See Petersen v. Riverton City, 784 F. Supp. 2d 1234 (D.
Utah 2011). The Federal Court ruled against the Petersens, mainly because the issues had already been litigated in
the Utah courts. The District Judge observed, however, that the city was not immune from a claim of interference
with contractual rights. Id., 784 F. Supp. 2d at 1246.

Advisory Opinion – Jacobson/Herriman
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 5, 2014 Page 4 of 8
     II.      Allowable Density May Be Defined Separately From Minimum Lot Size, By
              Reference to a General Plan.

     A. Authority to Regulate Density of New Residential Development

The City may regulate and define its allowable density separately from minimum lot size. Local
governments have broad discretion to promote the public welfare through regulation of land
development.

        (1) The purposes of this chapter [i.e., Chapter 10-9a] are to provide for the health,
            safety, and welfare, and promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and
            good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of each municipality and its
            present and future inhabitants and businesses, to protect the tax base, to secure
            economy in governmental expenditures, to foster the state's agricultural and
            other industries, to protect both urban and nonurban development, to protect and
            ensure access to sunlight for solar energy devices, to provide fundamental
            fairness in land use regulation, and to protect property values

        (2) To accomplish the purposes of this chapter, municipalities may enact all
            ordinances, resolutions, and rules and may enter into other forms of land use
            controls and development agreements that they consider necessary or
            appropriate for the use and development of land within the municipality,
            including ordinances, resolutions, rules, restrictive covenants, easements, and
            development agreements governing uses, density, open spaces, structures,
            buildings, energy efficiency, light and air, air quality, transportation and public
            or alternative transportation, infrastructure, street and building orientation and
            width requirements, public facilities, fundamental fairness in land use
            regulation, considerations of surrounding land uses and the balance of the
            foregoing purposes with a landowner's private property interests, height and
            location of vegetation, trees, and landscaping, unless expressly prohibited by
            law.

Id., § 10-9a-102. Regulating density by limiting the number of units allowed in new residential
subdivisions promotes the general welfare and improves the good order, comfort, and aesthetics
of a community. The City may therefore choose to regulate the density allowed for new
residential subdivisions through its ordinances.

In Utah’s communities, density is often a function of minimum lot size. For example, if the
minimum lot size were one-half acre, the maximum allowable density would be two units per
acre. However, as noted above, a local government may choose to regulate density independently
of lot size. The number of units allowed would be dictated by an ordinance establishing density
limits, but the lots would still be required to meet minimum area and dimension requirements.
Returning to the aforementioned example, if a separate density ordinance limited the number of


Advisory Opinion – Jacobson/Herriman
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 5, 2014 Page 5 of 8
units allowed to 1.5 per acre, that number would establish the limit for the number of units, not
the lot size. 12

     B. Using a General Plan to Establish Density Limits

A local government may use any reasonable means to define what density would be allowed in a
given area, including referring to its general plan. 13 Although a general plan is usually
considered advisory, a local government may determine the extent to which its plan is
implemented. “[T]he general plan is an advisory guide for land use decisions, the impact of
which shall be determined by ordinance.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-405. The discretion to
determine the impact includes referring to the general plan to establish density limits.

Section 10-9a-405 requires an ordinance to determine the “impact” of a general plan. If an
ordinance dictates that the all or part of a general plan be applied in a land use decision, then the
general plan language used is the same as a zoning ordinance. 14 Referring to standards and
requirements by reference is within a local government’s discretion, and, as long as the
applicable standards may be ascertained and applied with specificity and uniformity, there should
be no reason why they would not be as enforceable as any other zoning ordinance.

One concern with Herriman’s ordinance is that it defines the allowable density in a new
subdivision by referring to the “intent and purpose” of the general plan. See HERRIMAN CITY
CODE, § 11-2-2. The phrase “intent and purpose” is very fluid, and could mean whatever the City
wishes it to mean in any given context. Property owners should be able to ascertain what can and
cannot be done under a local land use ordinance, and are entitled to reliability and objectivity in
development standards. See Western Land Equities v. City of Logan, 617 P.2d 388, 396 (Utah
1980). Incorporating nebulous language such as “intent and purpose,” without objective
standards to guide how an ordinance is implemented, does not provide the level of stability
property owners should expect.

Likewise, in this matter the general plan provided a density range between 1.8 and 2.5 units per
acre. The City eventually decided on the maximum density (2.5 units per acre). However, the
City did not explain how it arrived at that figure, or what guided its decision. Using a density
range, rather than designating specific density standards is overly subjective. Developers are
entitled to specific criteria to determine the exact level of density – not just a subjective density
range – that can be achieved. Nevertheless, in this matter, the City approved the maximum
density allowable. Thus, there is no reason to disturb the City’s action based upon a lack of
objectivity.


12
   Of course, other factors could impact the number of units that could be built in a subdivision, such as topography
or roads.
13
   A “general plan” is a document adopted by a local government establishing general guidelines for future
development. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-103(13). General plans are required of all local governments. Id., § 10-
9a-401(1).
14
   The obvious question is why the City doesn’t simply adopt the density ranges as part of its land use ordinance,
eliminating the need for any reference to the general plan. However, since reference to a general plan is an
acceptable means crafting a land use ordinance, this Opinion sees no reason to disturb the City’s approach.

Advisory Opinion – Jacobson/Herriman
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 5, 2014 Page 6 of 8
     III.        The Extent of Vested Development Rights are Based on the Totality of Provisions
                 in a Land Use Ordinance, Not on Isolated Sections.

The extent of a property owner’s entitlement to develop is based on all of the applicable portions
of a land use ordinance, not on single sections or phrases. The vested rights rule provides that “an
applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the application conforms to the
requirements of . . . an applicable land use ordinance in effect when a complete application is
submitted . . ..” UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(ii). To be most effective, the rule envisions
vesting in all of the requirements of an ordinance read together, not on individual passages.

For example, one section of a zoning ordinance may allow a density of two units per acre, but
another section prohibits development on steep slopes. The two provisions must be read together,
with the slope restriction potentially limiting the allowable density. A property owner cannot
claim vested rights by “picking and choosing” only the most favorable passages of a zoning
ordinance. The vested right to develop must derive from the entirety of a zoning ordinance.15

In this matter, Mr. Jacobson claims the right to at least 10 lots, based on the City’s minimum lot
size for his property. However, the City’s ordinance also includes a separate provision defining
the allowable density. Reading the entire ordinance (as it applies to Mr. Jacobson’s development)
harmoniously requires that the allowable density be lower than what would be expected from the
lot size alone.

                                                Conclusion
The City may adopt an ordinance establishing density limits for new development. That
ordinance may adopt limits found in the City’s general plan, which may be applied as if it were a
zoning ordinance itself. A density “range” may also be used, instead of specific numbers, as long
as the City incorporates objective standards to guide the land use authority’s choice of the
density number.

A property owner may claim the vested right to develop under a zoning ordinance, but the right
must be based on the entire language of the ordinance. An owner may not pick and choose
individual passages, and ignore others which impact those passages. Maximum development
allowed under one zoning provision could be limited by another section. The extent of
development claimed as a vested right must be based on a harmonious reading of the entire
zoning ordinance.

The Utah Supreme Court has ruled that a property owner has two options to challenge a land use
decision—either through an appeal as provided in § 801 of LUDMA, or by filing a claim in
district court. It remains to be seen how the two options relate procedurally, however. This


15
   See Scherbel v. Salt Lake City, 758 P.2d 897, 900-01. In Scherbel, an applicant appealed a city’s denial of a
proposed development, and claimed the vested right to complete the project. The Utah Supreme Court pointed out
that the applicant had not fully complied with all of the city’s zoning ordinance, and so could not claim a vested
right to develop.

Advisory Opinion – Jacobson/Herriman
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 5, 2014 Page 7 of 8
Opinion does not conclude that Mr. Jacobson does or does not have a valid claim to file in court,
but only notes the possibility.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Jacobson/Herriman
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 5, 2014 Page 8 of 8
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                      Jackie Nostrom, City Recorder
                      City of Herriman
                      13011 South Pioneer Street
                      Herriman, Utah 84065

On this 5th Day of December, 2014, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to
the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
