                    Advisory Opinion # 155
                                          Parties: City of Herriman
                                             Issued: April 14, 2015

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                                Impact Fees

Herriman City has requested early review of its Parks, Trails, and Recreation
Impact Fee. This impact fee substantially complies with the Utah Impact Fees Act.

Herriman’s “investment per thousand” method is a valid measure of level of
service. The City’s Plan adequately identifies capacity to accommodate future
growth and the demands new growth will inflict on level of service.

The City meets the Act’s requirements of identifying how to meet future growth
demands by indicating, although not specifying, that it will spend impact fees on
improvements as opportunities arise.

As the Impact Fee is implemented and funds collected, further review for
compliance with the Act may be necessary.


                                                DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each
Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was
prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes
or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide
general guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be
considered legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current
laws.




                     The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                                  (801) 530-6391
                     Utah Department of Commerce                                                 1-877-882-4662
                     PO Box 146702                                                           Fax: (801) 530-6338
                     160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                     www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                     Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                         propertyrights@utah.gov
                        State of Utah
                        Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                        OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 SPENCER J. COX         FRANCINE A. GIANI       BRENT N. BATEMAN
Lieutenant Governor     Executive Director      Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                             ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                 City of Herriman

      Local Government Entity:                       City of Herriman

      Scope of Advisory Opinion:                     Parks, Trails, and Recreation Impact Fee
                                                     Early Review

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 April 14, 2015

      Opinion Authored By:                           Brent N. Bateman
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                     Issues
      Early review of Herriman City’s Draft Parks, Trails, and Recreation Impact Fees.



                                  Summary of Advisory Opinion
      Herriman City’s impact fees substantially comply with the Impact Fees Act with respect to
      matters currently capable of review. Future review for compliance with the Impact Fee Act will
      be needed as the City imposes, collects, and spends impact fee funds


                                                   Review
      A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
      decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
      An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
      administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
      application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
      hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
      neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from John N. Brems, Herriman City Attorney,
on November 25, 2014. As a courtesy, a copy of that request was sent to Mr. Ross K. Ford,
Executive Director of the Utah Home Builders Association on December 3, 2014. No
submissions were received by any third party.

                                                 Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1. Herriman City Draft Impact Fee Facilities Plan: Parks, Trails, and Recreation, dated
        November 2014 and prepared by Zion’s Bank Public Finance;
     2. Herriman City Draft Impact Fee Analysis: Parks, Trails, and Recreation, dated
        November 2014 and prepared by Zion’s Bank Public Finance; and
     3. Herriman City Draft Ordinance Reaffirming the Adoption of the Impact Fee Facilities
        Plan and Impact Fee Analysis for Parks, Trails, and Recreation.
     4. Revised Herriman City Draft Impact Fee Facilities Plan: Parks, Trails, and Recreation
        (redline), dated March 2015 and prepared by Zion’s Bank Public Finance;
     5. Revised Herriman City Draft Impact Fee Analysis: Parks, Trails, and Recreation
        (redline), dated February 2015 and prepared by Zion’s Bank Public Finance.


                                 Introduction: Early Review of Impact Fees
By necessity, early review of impact fees is limited. The Utah Impact Fee act contains extensive
requirements covering all aspects of an impact fee system. However, many of those statutory
provisions are active only upon collection or expenditure of the fees. Early review of an impact
fee occurs prior to the collection or expenditure of any funds. Thus, many statutory requirements,
such as the requirement to segregate the funds in a separate ledger account or refund unspent fees
within six years, cannot be reviewed early. They have not occurred.

Early review of an impact fee is a review of the documents and procedures that establish the fee,
and their compliance with the requirements of the Impact Fee Act. Accordingly, no party should
assume that this Advisory Opinion ends the inquiry into the legality of the fees. In time, as the
fees are collected and expended, all involved parties should take continual care to ensure that the
impact fee complies with the Impact Fee Act.

Likewise, interested parties should note that an early review of an impact fee by the Property
Rights Ombudsman is limited to a legal review. No attempt is made to review the fee’s
accounting and engineering conclusions (beyond a cursory check for obvious errors and legal
compliance). The Ombudsman’s office has neither the capacity nor expertise to verify whether
an impact fee meets the standards of practice for those professions. In addition, all impact fees

Advisory Opinion – Herriman City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 14, 2015 Page 2 of 8
are based upon certain data and future projections, such as projected new growth in an area or
projected costs of needed facilities. The legal review undertaken here cannot verify the facts nor
guarantee the accuracy of the projections. This Opinion will examine the documents provided
only within the legal framework of the Impact Fee Act.

Subject to those limitations, this Office has made every attempt to accurately and thoroughly
apply the Impact Fee Act to the materials and facts provided. Where questions arise regarding the
conclusions in this Advisory Opinion or the accuracy of the fees in general, whether reviewed
herein or unrevewable, the parties are encouraged to make further inquiries.

                                            Analysis
The Utah Impact Fees Act is found in Title 11, Chapter 36a of the Utah Code (“Act”). In
accordance with UTAH CODE § 13-43-205(1), Herriman City has requested a review of its Parks,
Trails, and Recreation Impact Fees (“Impact Fees”) by providing a Draft Impact Fee Facilities
Plan: Parks, Trails, and Recreation (“IFFP”), a Draft Impact Fee Analysis: Parks, Trails, and
Recreation (“Analysis”), and a draft Ordinance Reaffirming the Adoption of the Impact Fee
Facilities Plan and Impact Fee Analysis for Parks, Trails, and Recreation (“Ordinance”). In
undertaking this analysis, this Advisory Opinion will forego reproduction of some lengthy
sections of the Act, which may be readily accessed. Only sections of the Act directly applicable
to this review will be discussed.

I.    Permissible Public Facilities

It is currently unknown whether the Impact Fees comply with the public facilities provisions of
the Act. All Impact Fees must comply with UTAH CODE § 11-36a-201(2). This section dictates
that impact fees may be used only for those public facilities defined in UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102.
That latter section states that impact fees can apply to “only the following impact fee facilities
that have a life expectancy of 10 or more years and are owned or operated by or on behalf of a
local political subdivision or private entity:” including for our purposes “(f) parks, recreation
facilities, open space, and trails.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(16).

Thus, in order to comply with this section of the Act, Herriman City's impact fees must be
expended on (1) parks, recreation facilities, open space, and trails, (2) with a 10 year life
expectancy, and (3) owned or operated by or on behalf of Herriman City.

Normally, an impact fee facilities plan will list the specific facilities upon which it intends to
spend the impact fees. Herriman City does not do so. Instead, the IFFP states that impact fee
revenue will be spent on “land or park improvements — as best meets the need of the City at the
time and as opportunities arise.” Until such facilities are actually selected for purchase and/or
improvement, it is impossible to verify whether those facilities meet the Act’s three-pronged
public facilities test. Compliance or noncompliance with this section of the Act can only be
determined once the facilities are selected. Thus, it is unknown whether Herriman City’s impact
fees comply with this requirement in the Act. The requirement to specify public facilities is
further discussed below.


Advisory Opinion – Herriman City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 14, 2015 Page 3 of 8
II. The Impact Fee Facilities Plan

In order to establish a legal Impact Fee, Herriman City must prepare and adopt an impact fee
facilities plan that complies with the Impact Fee Act. UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302 lists several
items and calculations that must be included within an IFFP. The relevant requirements can
generally be summarized into two categories: (i) Level of Service, and (ii) Revenue Source.

           A.       Level of Service

The Act defines “level of service” as “the defined performance standard or unit of demand for
each capital component of a public facility within a service area.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(11).
UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302(1) requires an IFFP to:

           (i)         identify the existing level of service;
           (ii)        establish a proposed level of service;
           (iii)       identify any excess capacity to accommodate future growth at the
                       proposed level of service;
           (iv)        identify demands placed upon existing public facilities by new
                       development activity at the proposed level of service; and
           (v)         identify the means by which the political subdivision or private entity will
                       meet those growth demands.

To restate, the Impact Fee Facilities plan must calculate the level at which the current parks,
trails, and recreation facilities serve the public. Also, the City must calculate the level of service
that it needs to accommodate projected growth, and explain how it is going to get there. The Act
prohibits using Impact fees to raise the level of service on existing development. Impact fees are
only to be used to provide new growth with the facilities necessary to achieve the City’s level of
service.

The Act does not dictate how the level of service calculation is to be done. Herriman City has
elected to calculate its existing Parks, Trails, and Recreation level of service using an
“investments per thousand” method. The City has estimated the dollar value of existing park
facilities, including both property and improvements, and expressed that number per 1000 city
residents. This method, one of several that could be chosen, defines a performance standard/unit
of demand for parks and recreation facilities, as required by the Act. Thus, “investment per
thousand” is a valid method to measure level of service.

Using the investment per thousand method, Herriman City also establishes a proposed level of
service, as required by the Act. This proposed level of service exceeds the existing level of
service by some measure. Nevertheless, Herriman City bases its final Impact Fee on the existing
level of service rather than the proposed level of service. In other words, Herriman is only
charging new growth an impact fee sufficient to bring new growth up to the current level of
service. This is perfectly permissible and may be preferable–it results in a lower fee.



Advisory Opinion – Herriman City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 14, 2015 Page 4 of 8
UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302(1)(a)(iii) requires the City to “identify any excess capacity to
accommodate future growth at the proposed level of service.” In the IFFP, Herriman City
indicates that there is no excess capacity in its existing parks, recreation and trails facilities, with
the exception of the equestrian center. Herriman supports this conclusion by providing a
comparison with the level of service of other communities in Utah, and the results of community
surveys. Most prominently, the City includes as an appendix to its IFFP a letter from its expert, a
landscape planner who drafted the City’s parks master plan. This expert concludes that, after a
review and analysis of relevant data, Herriman City has no excess capacity in its parks and trails
system. This showing sufficiently identifies excess capacity to accommodate future growth.

Finally, the Impact fee act requires Herriman City to identify the demands the new growth will
inflict upon its parks and recreation level of service, and how those demands will be met.
Herriman City adequately identifies the demands for new growth by demonstrating that, without
adding new facilities, the level of service will decline as anticipated population increases.

UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302(1)(a)(v) requires Herriman to identify the means by which it will meet
those growth demands. As stated above, this would typically be done by specifying public
facilities that the City plans to construct and spend impact fees on. Herriman, however, does not
provide a list of specific facilities. Instead, Herriman states that “fees collected will be used for
capital improvements — land or park improvements — as best meets the needs of the city at the
time and as opportunities arise.” In other words, the City intends to collect impact fee money
without any knowledge of what it will be spent on. The city only states a vague plan to spend it
as the need and opportunities arise.

This approach is not preferred. Moreover, UTAH CODE § 11-36a-602 states that

           A local political subdivision may expend impact fees only for a system improvement:
           (a) identified in the impact fee facilities plan; and
           (b) for the specific public facility type for which the fee was collected.

Thus the Act requires that collected fees be expended upon a system improvement that has been
identified in the IFFP.

Nevertheless, we do not believe that this section of the IFFP violates the Act. The word
“identify” is key. In both UTAH CODE § 11-36a-602 and in UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302(1)(a)(v), the
City is required to identify the improvements it plans to use impact fees on. A narrow view of this
word would equate to “specify” — which would make necessary the specific identification of the
proposed facilities. However, the plain meaning of the word “identify” is to “establish or
indicate.” Although specificity may be preferable, and in many cases may be necessary, we feel
that a narrow view of the word “identify” would lead to an inefficient result in some instances.
Better city planning and better located and improved parks can sometimes be obtained by
following Herriman’s intended method. The requirements in the Act are met because Herriman
indicates that it will spend impact fees on “capital improvements — land or park improvements
— as best meets the needs of the city at the time and as opportunities arise.” As stated above, this

Advisory Opinion – Herriman City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 14, 2015 Page 5 of 8
approach will require that the proposed facilities be reviewed for compliance with the act at the
time they are purchased rather than at the establishment of the fee. Specificity will be necessary
at some point. The funds cannot be spent without specifying what the funds will be spent on, and
determining that those funds satisfy the Act’s three-pronged public facilities test. But it is not
necessary in this case to read “identify” in the Act to require specificity in this early stage. We
find, therefore, that the Act does not prohibit Herriman’s approach.

           B.       Revenue Source Calculation

The Impact Fee Act also requires a City to “generally consider all revenue sources to finance the
impacts on system improvements.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302(2). This means that if the
necessary system improvements can be paid by means besides impact fees, those means should
be included in the calculation. Herriman City appears to have done this to a sufficient degree to
comply with the Act.

Herriman anticipates that land for trails will be acquired by other means, “through easements and
grants,” and will not need to be purchased. Accordingly, Herriman does not include the cost of
trail lands in its impact fee calculation. The City then indicates that it does not anticipate any
further revenue sources, except that donations of system improvements by a developer will be
used to credit impact fees to the benefit of the developer. Nothing has been provided that calls
these conclusions by the City into question. Although the IFFP’s consideration of these revenue
sources is brief and very cursory (not a “thorough discussion”), it appears to comply with the
requirements in the Act to consider all revenue sources.

Accordingly, Herriman City’s Impact Fee Facilities Plan generally complies with the Impact Fee
Act.

III. The Impact Fee Analysis

A City creating an impact fee must also prepare an Impact Fee Analysis. Therein, the data and
information from the IFFP and projections about future demand from development determine the
maximum fee that can be imposed. UTAH CODE § 11-36a-304 requires that an Impact Fee
Analysis

           (a)      identify the anticipated impact on or consumption of any existing capacity
                    of a public facility by the anticipated development activity;
           (b)      identify the anticipated impact on system improvements required by the
                    anticipated development activity to maintain the established level of service
                    for each public facility;
           (c)      subject to Subsection (2), demonstrate how the anticipated impacts
                    described in Subsections (1)(a) and (b) are reasonably related to the
                    anticipated development activity;
           (d)      estimate the proportionate share of:
                    (i) the costs for existing capacity that will be recouped; and



Advisory Opinion – Herriman City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 14, 2015 Page 6 of 8
                    (ii) the costs of impacts on system improvements that are reasonably related
                         to the new development activity; and
           (e)      based on the requirements of this chapter, identify how the impact fee was
                    calculated.

Herriman City bases its Analysis on its projected growth calculations. Herriman explains that
those growth calculations were obtained using historical growth data, with consideration of land
acreage within the City anticipated to be developed. Although the data and associated
explanations only provide general estimates, they provide a sufficient foundation for a reasonable
identification of anticipated growth.

Using those calculations, Herriman City identifies the impact upon the demand expected by this
new growth, by showing that if new growth continues and no further facilities are established,
the level of service will decline. Herriman City then identifies how it will maintain the current
level of service in the face of anticipated growth by showing the amounts that must be invested
in order to maintain the present “investment per thousand” level of service. Assuming the
accuracy of the growth projections, nothing could be found in these calculations that violate the
Impact Fee Act.

The crux of an impact fee analysis is the proportionate share calculation. This is where the
amounts needed to maintain the level of service is apportioned to each new unit of growth.
Herriman does this by calculating the number of standard units (derived from the population
projections) that are anticipated to enter the City within the next ten years. The Analysis then
divides the total funds needed within the next ten years by the total number of new citizens
anticipated to arrive in Herriman during the next ten years. This results in a per capita
proportionate share calculation. Ten years is an acceptable projection length.

The analysis then converts the per capita proportionate share calculation into a per unit
calculation by multiplying the per capita number by the number of capitas in a standard unit. The
City uses different multipliers for single family households and multi-family households to
account for different average household sizes. The result is the proportional share per unit, and
the impact fee. The calculation used appears to comply with the requirements of the Act.

IV. The Impact Fee Enactment

Finally, the Impact Fee Act requires adoption of an impact fee enactment. The provisions
required in the Act to appear in the enactment are verifiable by checklist – they are either in the
enactment or they are not. Herriman City’s proposed enactment contains each of the required
provisions in UTAH CODE § 11-36a-401. Herriman establishes its service area as the entire city in
Section 7. The enactment contains in Section 5 a very light, but nonetheless legally adequate
schedule of impact fees. Also in section 5, Herriman indicates its intent to charge parks and
recreation impact fees on residential development, indicates the fee for both single family and
multi-family development, and adopts by reference the formulas to calculate the fee set forth in
the Impact Fee Analysis.



Advisory Opinion – Herriman City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 14, 2015 Page 7 of 8
Herriman’s enactment also contains in Section 6 a required provision authorizing it to adjust the
standard impact fee in appropriate circumstances or based upon studies or data submitted by the
developer. Likewise, the enactment in section 6.3 requires Herriman City to credit a developer
for any dedication of land for, improvement to, or new construction of, any system
improvements, as the statute requires. Accordingly, the Enactment is compliant with the Act.

                                           Conclusion
Herriman City’s impact fees substantially comply with the Impact Fees Act. Nevertheless,
Herriman’s stated intent to “spend as opportunity arises” on permissible capital facilities,
although compliant with the Act at present, will require further review at such time that facilities
are identified and impact fees spent.



Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Herriman City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 14, 2015 Page 8 of 8
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                      Jackie Nostrom, City Recorder
                      City of Herriman
                      13011 S. Pioneer Street
                      Herriman, Utah 84096

On this ___________ Day of April, 2015, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
