                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI     BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director    Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:               Mayor Patrick H. Dunlavy, Tooele City

        Local Government Entity:                     Tooele City

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:             Beehive Storage LLC

        Type of Property:                            Self-Storage Facility

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:               February 14, 2017

        Opinion Authored By:                         Brent N. Bateman
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                      ISSUE
        Can Tooele City require that Beehive Storage LLC dedicate and improve a 66 foot wide portion
        of 1280 North Street as a condition of site plan approval for the expansion of the Beehive
        facility?

                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        A local government may require an exaction, such as dedication of property or installation of
        improvements, as a condition of development approval. Such exactions, however, must satisfy
        the analysis required by UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508. This analysis examines whether the exaction is
        roughly proportional, in both nature and extent, to the cost of assuaging the impacts of the
        development activity.

        Tooele City’s exaction upon Beehive Storage satisfies the “nature” aspect of the analysis.
        However, the requirement to dedicate and construct the entire 66 foot width of the road appears
        excessive, and thus fails the “extent” aspect of the test. An appropriate exaction in this matter
        must be proportionate to the development’s relatively minor impacts.
                                             REVIEW
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Mayor Patrick H. Dunlavy, on behalf of
Tooele City, on October 3, 2016. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Mr.
Douglas F. White, 636 East South Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah 84102.


                                           EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion submitted by Mayor Patrick H. Dunlavy, on behalf of
        Tooele City, on October 3, 2016.
     2. Response submitted by Mr. Douglas F. White, Attorney for Beehive Storage, LLC, on
        October 28, 2016.

                                          BACKGROUND
Since 1996, Beehive Storage LLC (“Beehive”)
has been the owner and operator of a self-
storage facility (the “Facility”) located at 1498
North Pine Canyon Road in Tooele City.
Because configuration of the parcel and
adjoining roads are material to this Advisory
Opinion, an approximate representation
appears here. The Facility currently consists of
multiple structures for indoor self-storage, plus
a gravel pad for outdoor boat and RV storage.
The only entrance or exit from the Facility is
located in the northwest corner and connects to
Pine Canyon Road (2000 N). The property east
of the Facility is undeveloped. To the south,
three parcels adjoin the Facility, two
containing commercial buildings, and one
smaller parcel owned by Beehive. The street

Advisory Opinion – Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 14, 2017 Page 2 of 7
known as 1280 North runs south of the adjacent businesses and dead-ends at the smaller Beehive
parcel.

Beehive recently submitted a site plan application to Tooele City for expansion of the Facility.
The site plan shows several new indoor storage buildings located upon the area currently used as
outside storage, and the outside storage relocated to the south upon the immediately adjacent
Beehive parcel.

Tooele City’s Right-of-way Master Plan shows 1280 North Street continuing through the smaller
Beehive parcel to reach the undeveloped properties to the east. Tooele City has informed Beehive
that in order to receive site plan approval for the expansion of its storage Facility, Beehive will
need to dedicate 66 feet of the property and construct the entire width of 1280 North in the
expansion area, including asphalt, curb, gutter, and sidewalk. Tooele City argues that this
dedication and construction of the road is a permissible and proportionate exaction upon which it
may condition approval of the site plan. Beehive objects to the requirement that it dedicate and
build this portion of 1280 North. Beehive argues that the exaction is unneeded and
disproportionate because the entire adjacent Beehive parcel will be fenced for security, and thus
no vehicles or traffic will enter or exit the property from 1280 North. In addition, Beehive argues
that Tooele City has no authority in its ordinances to require dedication and construction of this
road.

                                             ANALYSIS
I. Development Exactions and the “Rough Proportionality” Test

Tooele City’s requirement, that Beehive dedicate and improve 1280 North, is an exaction. An
exaction is a government-mandated contribution of property imposed as a condition of
development approval. B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, (BAM III), 2012 UT 26, ¶16.
Exactions arise from the principle that development causes impacts to a community. In order to
assuage those impacts, the community can exact from the developer property or improvements
for dedication to the public.

Exactions are legal and appropriate if they are roughly proportionate to the impact that the
development creates. The Utah Code provides:

           A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in
           a land use application . . ., if:
               (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
                    each exaction; and,
               (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
                    impact of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1). The language of this statute was borrowed directly from the U.S.
Supreme Court analyses in Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825 (1987) and
Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994), and has become known as the “rough
proportionality test.” See B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, (BAM I), 2006 UT 2, ¶8. If
the exaction meets this test, it is valid. If the exaction fails this test, it violates the protections
Advisory Opinion – Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 14, 2017 Page 3 of 7
guaranteed by the Takings Clauses of the Utah and U.S. Constitutions.1 Call v. West Jordan, 614
P.2d 1257, 1259 (Utah 1980). Thus this test “bar[s] Government from forcing some people alone
to bear public burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a
whole.” Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960). An exaction helps pay the costs of
the development’s impact. An excessive exaction requires the developer to pay for impacts
beyond its own. Banberry Development Corporation v. South Jordan City, 631 P..2d 899, 903
(Utah 1981).

The rough proportionality analysis was honed in Utah by B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake
County (BAM II), 2008 UT 74. In that opinion, the Utah Supreme Court explained that rough
proportionality analysis “has two aspects: first, the exaction and impact must be related in nature;
second, they must be related in extent.” Id. at ¶9. The “nature” aspect focuses on the relationship
between the purported impact and proposed exaction. The Court described the approach “in
terms of a solution and a problem . . . [T]he impact is the problem, or the burden which the
community will bear because of the development. The exaction should address the problem. If it
does, then the nature component has been satisfied.” Id. at ¶10.

The “extent” aspect of the rough proportionality analysis measures the impact against the
proposed exaction in terms of cost. Id. at ¶11 (“The most appropriate measure is cost—
specifically, the cost of the exaction and the impact to the developer and the municipality,
respectively.”). The court explained that “roughly proportional” means “roughly equivalent.” Id.
at ¶8. Thus, in order to be valid, the cost of an exaction must be roughly equivalent to the cost
that a local government would incur to assuage the impact attributable to a land use. Despite the
test for equivalency, mathematical precision is not required. Id. at ¶12, n.4.

In the third “B.A.M.” decision, the Utah Supreme Court summarized the analysis, firmly tying
the exaction to the infrastructure needs created by the development:

           [N]ot only must the nature of an exaction relate to government purpose or need
           (in that the exaction must alleviate the burdens imposed on infrastructure by the
           development), but the extent of the exaction must also be roughly proportional to
           the government’s need for infrastructure improvements created by the
           development.

BAM III, 2012 UT 26, ¶26. Accordingly, Tooele City’s requirement that Beehive dedicate the
land and build the improvements on 1280 North, imposed as a condition of site plan approval, is
an exaction that must satisfy the rough proportionality test. Tooele City may impose the exaction
“so long as there is a ‘nexus’ [or link] and ‘rough proportionality’ between the property that the
government demands and the social costs of the applicant’s proposal.” Koontz v. St. Johns River
Water Management District, 133 S.Ct. 2586, 2595 (2013). Tooele’s exaction must solve a
problem that Beehive’s development activity creates. And the costs to Beehive to dedicate 66


1
  The Takings Clause of the Federal Constitution is found in the Fifth Amendment, and is made applicable to the
states by the Fourteenth Amendment. See Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U.S. 226, 239 (1897). In
addition, “[t]he Utah Constitution reinforces the protection of private property against uncompensated governmental
takings in article I, section 22, Utah Constitution.” B.A.M. I, 2006 UT 2, ¶31.
Advisory Opinion – Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 14, 2017 Page 4 of 7
feet of property and to build and improve 1280 North must be proportionate to the impacts that
the development imposes upon the community.

II. The 1280 North Exaction

Beehive argues that Tooele City cannot impose any exaction to improve 1280 North because
Tooele City does not have an ordinance specifically allowing it to do so. Exactions are
authorized by state law. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1). Thus where impacts arise, exactions may be
imposed. In addition, Beehive argues that the City may not exact for 1280 North because the
City does not have an Impact Fee for roads. This exaction is a dedication of property and
improvements, so the Impact Fee Act does not apply. See UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(8). Although
all impact fees are exactions, not all exactions are impact fees.

Conversely, the City argues that the exaction is justified and proportionate because the road is
shown on the Tooele City Right-of-way Master Plan, and that the exaction meets Tooele City’s
minimum road right-of-way and improvement standard. Both of those facts may be true, and a
road in that location and of that size may be badly needed by Tooele City. But the amount that
may be exacted from this developer depends upon the impact of the development, not the need or
desire for a certain improvement by the City. The City may plan for and intend that a certain road
be established, but they can only impose an exaction that is roughly proportionate to the impact
created by the development activity. Even if a requirement is imposed by ordinance, a city can
only require that the developer pay its proportionate share. See BAM I, 2006 UT 2, ¶46 (“[T]he
legislature intended to apply the rough proportionality test to all exactions, irrespective of their
source.”). An excessive exaction imposed by ordinance is still excessive. If the desired road will
cost more than the developer’s share, then the City will need to find other ways to pay for the
remainder of the road.

           A.      The Exaction Promotes a Legitimate Government Interest

Tooele City has a legitimate governmental interest in safe and efficient traffic flow for vehicles
and pedestrians. Constructing new roads is a reasonable means of accomplishing the City’s
objectives. See Carrier v. Lindquist, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18, 37 P.3d 1112, 1117 (“In order for a
government to be effective, it needs the power to establish or relocate public throughways . . . for
the convenience and safety of the general public.”) See also UTAH CODE § 10-8-8. Thus the
essential link portion of the rough proportionality test is satisfied. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1)(a).

           B.      The Exaction Satisfies the Nature Portion of the Analysis

The nature aspect of the rough proportionality test asks whether the exaction provides a solution
to a problem created by the development activity. Beehive plans to expand both its indoor and its
outdoor storage capacity. This should cause an increase in traffic accessing the Facility.
Therefore, Beehive’s development will certainly have an impact on Tooele City traffic. Traffic in
and out of the Beehive Facility will empty onto Pine Canyon Road. Thus that location will
receive the bulk of the direct impacts. Nevertheless, the expansion of the Beehive Facility will
increase traffic in the general area. Some traffic to and from the Facility is likely to make its way
to 1280 North. In addition, although current plans call for security fencing and no point of access
to 1280 North, it cannot be said that improvements that abut a road have zero impact upon it,
Advisory Opinion – Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 14, 2017 Page 5 of 7
even if access to that road is not directly available. Access plans could change. Access may be
needed by emergency vehicles. The sidewalk and street could be affected by conditions on the
abutting property. In any event, the Facility expansion will impact roads in the area. This
problem could be solved by dedicating and improving nearby roadways. See Dolan, 512 U.S. at
395 (“[d]edications for streets, sidewalks, and other public ways are generally reasonable
exactions to avoid excessive congestion from a proposed property use.”). Since there is a
problem, and the exaction could provide the solution, the nature portion of the rough
proportionality test is satisfied.

           C.      The Requirements Do Not Satisfy the Extent Portion of the Analysis

The extent portion of the exaction analysis compares the city’s cost to the property owner’s cost.
These two costs should be roughly equivalent. Generally, greater impact justifies a greater
exaction. Where the impact is small, the exaction should likewise be small.

Tooele City has asked that Beehive dedicate the entire width of a 66 foot wide collector road
along Beehive’s approximately 282 foot southern boundary. In addition, Beehive is required to
pay for and construct all improvements, including asphalt, curb, gutter, and sidewalk, for the full
width. The only show of rough proportionality provided by the City includes bare statements that
the requirement meets Tooele’s established standards, and that the exaction is equivalent to the
cost of mitigating the burdens of the development. Because Tooele City has not provided the
required analysis,2 the City has not satisfied the extent aspect of the rough proportionality test.

Nevertheless, even without a complete analysis,3 the exaction appears excessive. A commonly
imposed road exaction for typical traffic impacts (where homes or businesses will directly access
that road) consists of dedication and construction of a half-width of a road along the frontage of
the property. This half-width frontage exaction is common practice and generally accepted as
roughly proportionate to a typical road impact.4 An abutting half-width generally does not
require one developer to provide improvements that others should provide --- i.e., the opposite
abutting landowner typically provides the other half-width. This typical half-width road exaction,
in response to typical impacts, may be useful as a yardstick of rough proportionality where a full
analysis of costs is neither provided nor practical.5

Tooele’s exaction requiring Beehive to dedicate to the public the full width of a 66 foot road, and
to construct the full width of the road, represents a far greater dedication than the typical
dedication illustrated by this example. At the same time, Beehive appears to bring a much

2
  The City bears the burden of showing that its proposed exaction satisfies the rough proportionality test. See Dolan,
512 U.S. at 391.
3
  The full analysis required to show rough proportionality is very impractical to provide, and perhaps impossible. In
fact, after many Advisory Opinions addressing exactions over several years, this Office has seen none.
4
  General acceptance of a half-width dedication as a roughly proportionate exaction is based upon the observation of
OPRO staff. This need not be proven for purposes of this Advisory Opinion, as the half-width exaction is only
illustrative and serves here as a guideline. Circumstances certainly do arise where a greater or smaller exaction
would be appropriate and needed depending on a greater or smaller level of impact.
5
  Referring to this generally accepted half-width exaction is not meant to adopt a de facto rule nor to endorse this as
an acceptable or legal exaction. It simply provides a useful measure of proportionate exactions, when a full analysis
is not provided, in order to promote settlement of disputes.
Advisory Opinion – Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 14, 2017 Page 6 of 7
smaller than typical impact. Traffic will not directly access 1280 North from the Facility,6 and
only a fractional percentage of the traffic increase to the Facility will directly impact 1280 North.
No construction other than a gravel storage pad is slated to take place adjacent to 1280 North.
Moreover, although traffic to the Facility will increase, daily traffic to a storage facility will not
be as heavy as many other commercial uses. Impacts will arise, but they will be small.

Accordingly, if a typical and generally accepted exaction has any value in determining whether
an exaction is excessive, this exaction appears to carry far greater costs while at the same time
carrying lower impacts. Therefore, this appears to be a case of an excessive exaction. Beehive is
creating some impact, and some exaction providing for 1280 North is appropriate. However,
asking Beehive to dedicate and improve the entire width of a 66 foot collector road that Beehive
will not directly access and which is some distance away from the entrance is not roughly
proportionate. Moreover, 1280 North will be heavily and primarily used by other developments,
including the property across the street to the south and the large vacant area to the east, which
stands especially to benefit from 1280 North. Once developed, other properties’ use of 1280
North will be exponentially heavier than Beehive’s. Beehive, and its relatively small impact,
should not be required to bear the burden of dedicating and constructing the entire road.

                                                 CONCLUSION
Some exaction for 1280 North appears appropriate, because Beehive’s expansion of its Facility
will impact Tooele City. But Beehive’s impact upon 1280 North will be light and small compared
to adjoining property owners that will benefit greatly. Tooele’s exaction must be reduced
significantly in order to bring it within the rough proportionality test, and this into compliance
with the current law.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




6
  Tooele City implies that access from the Facility onto 1280 North will be necessary, and perhaps required, because
of the difficulty in maneuvering large vehicles upon the property. Developer argues that there will be no difficulty in
accessing the existing exit, and that Tooele City has not shown any legal justification that would allow the City to
require addition of an access onto 1280 North, except perhaps for emergency vehicle access. We likewise can find
no justification for Tooele City to require Beehive to change or to add to the Facility access.
Advisory Opinion – Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 14, 2017 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in UTAH CODE § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE



On this ___________ Day of February, 2017, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered via the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid, and certified mail, return receipt
requested, and addressed to the person shown below.



Douglas F. White, Attorney
630 E. South Temple Street
Salt Lake City, Utah 84102




______________________________________________________
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
