                     Advisory Opinion #189
                      Parties: Home Builders Association of Utah, Elk Ridge City
                                             Issued: July 27, 2017

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                                Compliance with Land Use Ordinances

The Utah amendments to the International Fire Code, Utah Code § 15A-5-
203(1)(a), prohibit a local government from requiring fire sprinklers in all
residential structures, except in certain specific circumstances. Thus the City
ordinance requiring fire sprinklers in all residential buildings cannot be enforced.
However, the City can require fire sprinklers in residential structures that meet the
listed statutory circumstances.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI     BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director    Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:               Ross Ford, Home Builders Association of Utah

        Local Government Entity:                     Elk Ridge City

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:             Various

        Type of Property:                            Residential

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:               July 27, 2017

        Opinion Authored By:                         Brent N. Bateman
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                                      ISSUE
        Can the City of Elk Ridge require fire sprinklers in all residential structures or such are
        ordinances prohibited by the state fire code?



                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        The Utah amendments to the International Fire Code prohibit a local government from requiring
        fire sprinklers in residential structures, except in certain specific circumstances. Thus the Elk
        Ridge ordinance requiring fire sprinklers in all residential buildings cannot be enforced.
        However, Elk Ridge can require fire sprinklers in residential structures that meet the listed
        statutory circumstances.


                                                    REVIEW
        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts. A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Mr. Ross Ford on May 12,
2017. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Mayor Dennis Dunn, Elk Ridge City,
80 East Park Dr., Elk Ridge, Utah 84651.


                                                                    EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion submitted by Mr. Ross Ford, on behalf of the Home
        Builders Association of Utah, on May 12, 2017.
     2. The Utah Code and Elk Ridge City Ordinances, as they appear online.



                                                                BACKGROUND
Elk Ridge Utah has adopted an ordinance, section 10-12-38, requiring the installation of fire
sprinkler systems in all new residential construction. The Home Builders Association of Utah
(HBA), a trade association representing home builders and associated industries, has requested
this advisory opinion. The HBA challenges whether Elk Ridge’s sprinkler ordinance complies
with State law. The HBA argues that under recent changes in state law, cities are not permitted to
require fire sprinklers in structures where they are not required under the state fire code.
According to the HBA, this local ordinance requiring fire sprinklers in all residential structures is
unenforceable. Elk Ridge City did not provide a written response.


                                                                    ANALYSIS
The State of Utah has granted to local governments the authority to create and enforce land use
and building standards within their jurisdictions

           (2)     To accomplish the purposes of this chapter, municipalities may enact all
           ordinances, resolutions, and rules and may enter into other forms of land use
           controls and development agreements that they consider necessary or appropriate
           for the use and development of land within the municipality, including
           ordinances, resolutions, rules, restrictive covenants, easements, and development
           agreements governing uses, density, open spaces, structures, buildings, energy
           efficiency, light and air, air quality, transportation and public or alternative
           transportation, infrastructure, street and building orientation and width
Advisory Opinion – Home Builders Association of Utah v. Elk Ridge
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Date: July 27, 2017 Page 2 of 5
           requirements, public facilities, fundamental fairness in land use regulation,
           considerations of surrounding land uses and the balance of the foregoing purposes
           with a landowner's private property interests, height and location of vegetation,
           trees, and landscaping, unless expressly prohibited by law.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-102(2). That authority, based in the interest of the public health, safety, and
welfare, and promoting the standards of the community, is broad and subject to very deferential
discretion. However, even though the discretion of the local government is great, it has a limit.
Local authority to enact these laws only exists “unless expressly prohibited by law.” Id. Where
the law expressly prohibits the local government’s action, the action will be invalid.

The Elk Ridge City has an ordinance that requires the installation of fire sprinkler systems in all
new residential construction:

           Fire sprinkler systems are required to be installed in all new residential
           development serviced by the Elk Ridge City and Goosenest Water Company
           water systems. This requirement is for new construction of any heated structure or
           construction that constitutes more than fifty percent (50%) expansion of any
           dwelling unit and shall include any attached garage. The fire sprinkler system
           shall comply with the fire code and related regulations and the National Fire
           Protection Association article 13D standards adopted by the city. Sprinklers shall
           be provided with an exterior inspector's test port that complies with the following
           specifications or other material approved by the fire chief: a wall hydrant that is a
           Woodford model 65 (exposed type) or B65.

Elk Ridge Ordinance § 10-12-38. This ordinance appears to have been in place since 2008. Elk
Ridge’s recent enforcement of this ordinance has prompted this Advisory Opinion.

This blanket ordinance, requiring fire sprinkling systems on all new construction, is expressly
prohibited by Utah law. Residential construction in Utah is governed state-wide by the
International Residential Code, see UTAH CODE § 15A-2-103, and the International Fire Code,
UTAH CODE § 15A-1-403. These codes have been adopted by the legislature and apply to
construction activities throughout the state. Although these are international codes with specific
standards, they have the force of law in Utah.

The Utah legislature regularly adopts amendments to these codes specific to Utah policies and
reflective of Utah needs. These amendments are also adopted into state law and act as
modifications to the international code, and apply generally throughout the state. UTAH CODE §
15A-5-201.

One Utah amendment to the International Fire Code is crucial to this Advisory Opinion. It
applies to fire sprinkler systems in residential construction. This amendment, found in UTAH
CODE § 15A-5-203(1)(a), and legislatively amended most recently in 2016, sets forth the
conditions under which Utah Governments can require fire sprinklers in residential construction:



Advisory Opinion – Home Builders Association of Utah v. Elk Ridge
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Date: July 27, 2017 Page 3 of 5
           (a)         In IFC, Chapter 5, a new Section 501.5, Access grade and fire flow, is
                       added as follows: "An authority having jurisdiction over a structure built
                       in accordance with the requirements of the International Residential Code
                       as adopted in the State Construction Code, may require an automatic fire
                       sprinkler system for the structure only by ordinance and only if any of the
                       following conditions exist:
                       (i)     the structure:
                               (A)     is located in an urban-wildland interface area as provided in
                                       the Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code adopted as a
                                       construction code under the State Construction Code; and
                               (B)     does not meet the requirements described in Utah Code,
                                       Subsection 65A-8-203(4)(a) and Utah Administrative Code,
                                       R652-122-200, Minimum Standards for Wildland Fire
                                       Ordinance;
                       (ii)    the structure is in an area where a public water distribution system
                               with fire hydrants does not exist as required in Utah Administrative
                               Code, R309-550-5, Water Main Design;
                       (iii)   the only fire apparatus access road has a grade greater than 10%
                               for more than 500 continual feet;
                       (iv)    the total floor area of all floor levels within the exterior walls of
                               the dwelling unit exceeds 10,000 square feet; or
                       (v)     the total floor area of all floor levels within the exterior walls of
                               the dwelling unit is double the average of the total floor area of all
                               floor levels of unsprinkled homes in the subdivision that are no
                               larger than 10,000 square feet.

UTAH CODE § 15A-5-203(1)(a). This section expressly prohibits a blanket requirement of
sprinklers in all residential construction by stating that the local authority “may require an
automatic fire sprinkler system for the structure only by ordinance and only if any of the
following conditions exist.” Id., (emphasis added). By the plain language of this statute, a local
authority may require sprinklers in new residential construction only if one of the listed
conditions exists. A blanket requirement for fire sprinklers in all new residential construction,
without reference to any of the listed conditions, is thus expressly prohibited by state law.

Accordingly, Elk Ridge Ordinance § 10-12-38 is expressly prohibited by Utah law. Nevertheless,
it is important to note that Elk Ridge City may require fire sprinkler systems in some new
residential construction in compliance with this statute. The statute does permit a local
government to require fire sprinklers in new residential construction if the listed conditions are
met. Nothing has been provided to so indicate. Nevertheless, the entire City of Elk Ridge may be
within an urban-wildland interface area, as stated in subsection (A)(i). If so, then Elk Ridge may
require fire sprinkler systems in all new residential construction, in compliance with the state
law. Moreover, individual residences under construction may be within areas where a public
water distribution system with fire hydrants does not exist, or where road grades are greater than
10% for 500 feet as set forth in the statute. In such cases, the fire sprinkler requirement could be
enforced. In sum, this Office does not find that Elk Ridge cannot require fire sprinkler systems.


Advisory Opinion – Home Builders Association of Utah v. Elk Ridge
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Date: July 27, 2017 Page 4 of 5
Rather, we find that Elk Ridge City must follow the state code, which expressly prohibits a
blanket requirement of fire sprinklers in all new residential construction.


                                                                    CONCLUSION
The plain language of UTAH CODE § 15A-5-203(1)(a) states that local authorities may require
fire sprinkler systems in residential construction only where certain conditions are met. Thus, Elk
Ridge City cannot enforce its ordinance requiring fire sprinkler systems in all new residential
construction, without reference to the listed conditions.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Home Builders Association of Utah v. Elk Ridge
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Date: July 27, 2017 Page 5 of 5
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in UTAH CODE § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:


              Mayor Dennis Dunn
              City of Elk Ridge
              80 East Park Dr.
              Elk Ridge, Utah 84651



On this ___________ Day of July, 2017, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
