                     Advisory Opinion #184
                       Parties: City of Saratoga Springs, Concord Holdings, LC
                                             Issued: April 28, 2017

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                                            Vested Rights
                                  Entitlement to Application Approval

The 2009 Agreement entitles the developer to develop 32 acres of its project at a
density of at least 6 units to the acre, but no more. The language of the agreement
is unambiguous in this regard. The City may, of its own volition, grant higher
densities if it decides doing so would advance the public interest, but has no
obligation to do so.

Regardless of whether or not the City has fulfilled its obligations under the 2009
Agreement relative to Fairfield Road, the City may, pursuant to its inherent police
power, continue to use the remaining stretch of Fairfield Road, and may realign or
reconfigure the road to accommodate future growth and advance the public
interest as it sees fit. The 2009 Agreement cannot limit the City’s authority to do
this.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI      BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director     Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION
        Advisory Opinion Requested By:                City of Saratoga Springs

        Local Government Entity:                      City of Saratoga Springs

        Type of Property:                             Residential

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:                April 28, 2017

        Opinion Authored By:                          Jordan S. Cullimore
                                                      Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                      ISSUES
             1. Is the developer, pursuant to a 2009 development agreement between the developer and
                the City of Saratoga Springs, entitled to a density of more than 6 units to the acre?

             2. Is the City of Saratoga Springs, pursuant to the 2009 development agreement, obligated
                to prevent any future increase in traffic along Fairfield Road?

                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        The 2009 Agreement entitles Concord to develop 32 acres of its project at a density of at least 6
        units to the acre, but no more. The language of the agreement is unambiguous in this regard. The
        City may, of its own volition, grant higher densities if it decides doing so would advance the
        public interest, but has no obligation to do so.

        Regardless of whether or not the City has fulfilled its obligations under the 2009 Agreement
        relative to Fairfield Road, the City may, pursuant to its inherent police power, continue to use the
        remaining stretch of Fairfield Road, and may realign or reconfigure the road to accommodate
        future growth and advance the public interest as it sees fit. The 2009 Agreement cannot limit the
        City’s authority to do this.

                                                     REVIEW
        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Kevin S. Thurman, Attorney for Saratoga
Springs City, on May 16, 2016. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Concord
Holdings, LC, at 12308 South Raleigh CT, PO Box 1094, Draper, UT 84020. Concord Holdings
received the request on May 25, 2016.

                                               EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

      1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Kevin Thurman,
         Attorney for the City of Saratoga Springs. Received May 16, 2016.
      2. Response submitted by Paxton Guymon, Attorney for Concord Holdings, on July 22,
         2016.
      3. Reply submitted by Kevin Thurman, Attorney for Saratoga Springs, on August 26, 2016.
      4. Letter submitted by Kevin Thurman, Attorney for Saratoga Springs, on February 21,
         2017.

                                              BACKGROUND
Concord Holdings, LC (“Concord”) owns 44 acres of undeveloped real property in Saratoga
Springs (the “City”). Prior to 2009, the undeveloped property also included an additional 11.5
acres, which Concord sold to the City shortly after the property was annexed in 2009. The sale
enabled the construction of Pony Express Parkway and Foothill Boulevard. These roads now
border Concord’s remaining 44 acres to the south and east, respectively.

Under the terms of the purchase agreement (the “2009 Agreement”) for the 11.5 acres, the City
paid Concord $141,570 per acre along with “other consideration identified” in the agreement.
This “other consideration” is the subject of the present dispute between the parties. Additional
consideration was provided because the parties agreed that “the value of the subject property
may be higher than the agreed upon purchase price due to additional severance damages that
Concord may be entitled to if the property were otherwise obtained by the City through
condemnation proceedings.”

The terms of the agreement state that Concord would be entitled to build 252 apartments on
approximately 12 of the 44 acres. On the remaining 32 acres, Concord would be entitled to
“zoning with a comparable density not less than the City’s current R-6 zone for an approximate
yield of not less than 6 units to the acre. The parties disagree as to what constitutes not less than
6 units to the acre. Concord asserts that the language entitles it to 8 units to the acre because the

Advisory Opinion – City of Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 28, 2017     Page 2 of 6
City’s 2009 PUD Overlay Zone allowed for a density bonus of 2 additional units in the R-6 Zone
if certain performance standards were met. The City maintains that the agreement simply entitles
Concord to the base density of the R-6 Zone, which is 6 units to the acre. The City further argues
that the PUD Overlay Zone does not apply because it is not addressed in the agreement. The
agreement references the underlying R-6 Zone only.

The other disputed issue of “other consideration” in the agreement relates to Fairfield Road,
which bounds Concord’s property to the north. The 2009 Agreement states that “[t]he City agrees
to dead end, abandon or otherwise limit the traffic on the existing Fairfield Road in a manner to
be mutually agreed upon by City and Concord” after the Pony Express Parkway and Foothill
Boulevard are constructed. The City asserts that it fulfilled this term of the agreement when it
dead ended Fairfield Road where it runs into Pony Express Parkway. The City claims that
whereas Fairfield Road used to be a main thoroughfare to Eagle Mountain, Pony Express now
serves this purpose, and the remaining stretch of Fairfield Road may be used for local purposes
and/or realigned to serve other developing properties to the west of Concord’s property without
violating the terms of the 2009 Agreement.

Concord contends, however, that, pursuant to the 2009 Agreement, it did not agree to such an
arrangement, and that any change in the existing traffic or use of Fairfield Road may only occur
through mutual agreement between the City and Concord. Concord asserts that the City may “not
allow any increase in traffic on [Fairfield Road] from future developments.”

Saratoga Springs City has requested this Advisory Opinion to address these issues.

                                                 ANALYSIS
I.          Density Entitlements under the 2009 Agreement

Whether the 2009 Agreement entitles Concord to a density of 6 or 8 units to the acre is a
question of contract interpretation.1 When interpreting a contract’s terms and provisions, courts
look first to the plain meaning of the agreement’s language to determine the intent of the parties
involved. See Judge v. Saltz Plastic Surgery, 2016 UT 7, ¶ 24, 367 P.3d 1006. If a contract term
or provision is unambiguous, the contract is interpreted as a matter of law according to the
agreement’s plain meaning. Id.

If, however, a contract provision is ambiguous, “the intent of the parties becomes a question of
fact,” and the court may look to extrinsic evidence to resolve the ambiguity. Id. A contract
provision is ambiguous “if it is capable of more than one reasonable interpretation because of
‘uncertain meanings of terms, missing terms, or other facial deficiencies.’” Id. (quoting WebBank
v. Am. Gen. Annuity Serv. Corp., 2002 UT 88, ¶ 20, 54 P.3d 1139).

The relevant provision of the 2009 agreement entitling Concord to not less than 6 units to the
acre is unambiguous, and should be interpreted according to its plain meaning. Moreover, since

1
 Contract interpretation is not among the subjects for Advisory Opinions found in the Property Rights Ombudsman
Act, Utah Code § 13-43-205. We provide the following opinion here at the parties’ request with the sole intent of
assisting to resolve a dispute.
Advisory Opinion – City of Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 28, 2017     Page 3 of 6
the density bonus allowed by the Overlay Zone is not expressly addressed or contemplated by
the plain language of the agreement, it does not apply, and the agreement does not entitle
Concord to 8 units to the acre.

The agreement states that Concord is entitled to develop at a density “not less than the City’s
current R-6 zone for an approximate yield of not less than 6 units to the acre.” Admittedly, this
language is broad and somewhat open-ended, but it is not ambiguous. The language is not
“capable of more than one reasonable interpretation” on its face. Id. The phrase “not less than 6
units to the acre” plainly includes 6 units to the acre as an acceptable density, but it does not
plainly entitle Concord to develop at 8 units to the acre. Moreover, the referenced R-6 zone,
according to the information provided this office, allows 6 units to the acre, but not 8. The two
references, read in conjunction with one another, produce the interpretation that Concord is
entitled to develop at a density of at least 6 units to the acre.

The apparent purpose of the agreement’s open-ended “not less than” language is to set a floor
density, while giving the City discretion to approve a higher density than 6 units to the acre if the
City determines that such an increase would be in the public interest. However, the express terms
of the agreement do not impose upon the City an obligation to grant a density increase.

Accordingly, since the agreement plainly entitles Concord to at least 6 units to the acre, but does
not expressly entitle it to 8 units to the acre, the City may fulfill its obligation and meet the terms
of the agreement by granting Concord the right to develop its property at a density of at least 6
units to the acre. The City has no obligation under the plain and express terms of the agreement
to approve a development application proposing a density of 8 units to the acre.

II.         Obligations Related to Fairfield Road under the 2009 Agreement

As stated above, the City asserts that it fulfilled its obligation “to dead end, abandon or otherwise
limit the traffic on the existing Fairfield Road in a manner to be mutually agreed upon by City
and Concord” when it dead ended Fairfield Road at Pony Express Parkway. The City further
contends that, moving forward, it may use the remaining section of the right-of-way however it
deems appropriate, and that it may allow future development to connect to what is left of
Fairfield Road. Concord maintains, however, that the City may “not allow any increase in traffic
on [Fairfield Road] from future developments,” because Concord did not mutually agree to
future use of the road, pursuant to the 2009 Agreement.

The parties have asked for our opinion on the following question: whether the City in fact
fulfilled its obligation under the terms of the 2009 Agreement when it dead-ended Fairfield
Road. We decline to reach this question because the answer is not dispositive in light of
overriding legal principles.

State law authorizes the use of development agreements2 to give developers and local
governments a flexible tool to address unique circumstances and provide both parties with a
greater degree of certainty. Through a development agreement, a developer may obtain a vested
right to certain development standards such as density, lot size, setback distance, as well as other
2
    See UTAH CODE § 10-9a-102(2).
Advisory Opinion – City of Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 28, 2017     Page 4 of 6
standards commonly found in a traditional zoning ordinance. However, parties to a development
agreement may not limit the local government’s ability to exercise its legislative discretion and
authority.

Whenever a local government exercises its legislative authority to promote the public health,
safety, or general welfare, it is exercising its “police power.” See Retan v. Salt Lake City, 226 P.
1095, 1097 (Utah 1924). When entering into agreements, a city may not “bargain away or divest
itself of the right to make reasonable laws, and to exercise the police power whenever it becomes
necessary to conserve or promote the health, safety or welfare of the community.” Id. at 1096
(quoting 3 McQuillan, Municipal Corporations, § 1169).

Moreover, a local government’s power “to contract respecting a particular thing does not confer
power, by implication, to contract even with reference to such thing so as to embarrass and
interfere with its future control over the matter, as the public interests may require.” Id.
Consequently, when a local government enters into an agreement that purportedly limits its
legislative authority, the agreement is “subject at all times to the free and full exercise by the city
of its police power in the public interest.” Id. at 1096.

The Utah Code grants broad legislative authority to municipalities to “lay out, establish, open,
alter, widen, narrow, extend, grade, pave, or otherwise improve streets….” 3 UTAH CODE § 10-8-
8. This authority constitutes a valid exercise of the police power. Consequently, any agreement
the City enters into limiting this authority is, as previously stated, “subject at all times to the free
and full exercise by the city of its police power in the public interest.” Retan, 226 P. at 1096. “No
matter what the terms of the contract, it is subject to the right of the city to exercise its police
power for the public benefit.” Id. at 1097.

Accordingly, regardless of whether the dead-ending of Fairfield Road fulfilled the City’s
obligation under the terms of the 2009 Agreement, the City is well within its authority to
continue to allow public use of the remaining stretch of Fairfield Road and approve realignment
or reconfiguration of the road to accommodate future development. Concord does not possess
authority under the 2009 Agreement to prevent or proscribe the City’s ongoing jurisdiction and
authority in this area.

                                                 CONCLUSION
The 2009 Agreement entitles Concord to develop 32 acres of its project at a density of at least 6
units to the acre, but no more. The language of the agreement is unambiguous in this regard. The
City may, of its own volition, grant higher densities if it decides that doing so would advance the
public interest, but has no obligation to do so.

Regardless of whether or not the City has fulfilled its obligations under the 2009 Agreement
relative to Fairfield Road, the City may, pursuant to its inherent police power, continue to use the
remaining stretch of Fairfield Road, and may realign or reconfigure the road to accommodate


3
  See also Carrier v. Lindquist, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18, 37 P.3d 1112. (In order for a government to be effective, it needs
the power to establish or relocate public throughways…for the convenience and safety of the general public.)
Advisory Opinion – City of Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 28, 2017     Page 5 of 6
future growth and advance the public interest as it sees fit. The 2009 Agreement does not limit
the City’s authority to do this.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – City of Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 28, 2017     Page 6 of 6
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE



On this ___________ Day of May, 2017, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
via the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid, and certified mail, return receipt requested
and addressed to the person shown below.



Concord Holdings, L.C.
Attn: LaVar Christensen
12308 S. Raleigh CT
PO Box 1094
Draper, Utah 84020




_____________________________________________________
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
