                     Advisory Opinion #136
                                            Parties: Highland City
                                         Issued: December 26, 2013

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                                D: Exactions on Development
                                J: Requirements Imposed on Development
                                Other Topics (v): Interpretation of Ordinances

A local government may allow voluntary dedications from developers for open
space or parks, as long as the developer receives a fair exchange in the form of
development concessions or other incentives.         Since the dedications are
voluntary, they are not exactions, and the property may be sold or disposed of in
the same manner as other property belonging to the local government.




                                                DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each
Advisory Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was
prepared. Over time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes
or new interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide
general guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be
considered legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current
laws.




                     The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                                  (801) 530-6391
                     Utah Department of Commerce                                                 1-877-882-4662
                     PO Box 146702                                                           Fax: (801) 530-6338
                     160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                     www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                     Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                         propertyrights@utah.gov
                          State of Utah
                          Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT
   Governor
                          OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
 SPENCER J. COX           FRANCINE A. GIANI       BRENT N. BATEMAN
Lieutenant Governor       Executive Director      Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




                                               ADVISORY OPINION

      Advisory Opinion Requested by:                   Highland City

      Local Government Entity:                         Highland City

      Applicant for the Land Use Approval:             Various Developers

      Type of Property:                                Residential

      Date of this Advisory Opinion:                   December 26, 2013

      Opinion Authored By:                             Elliot R. Lawrence
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       Issues
      Is open space dedicated in exchange for density bonuses, as provided by ordinance and stated in
      a development agreement an exaction?

      May a local government sell or transfer land dedicated in exchange for density bonuses?

                                    Summary of Advisory Opinion
      The exercise of governmental powers is always subject to statutory and constitutional limits.
      Although local governments enjoy broad discretion to carry out their objectives, they cannot
      exceed the authority granted to them by the state legislature, and they may not exceed the limits
      proscribed by statute or by the state and federal constitutions. These restrictions remain in place
      when a government entity enters an agreement with a private party. The statutory and
      constitutional framework that defines and restricts governmental authority is essentially
      incorporated into any agreement.

      The City’s ordinances allowing developers to dedicate open space in exchange for development
      concessions are valid, and carry out a legitimate government objective. As long as the
      developers receive development rights in a fair exchange for the property, the dedications should
      be constitutionally acceptable. Because the dedications are voluntary, they are not exactions, and
      the exaction statute in the Utah Code does not apply. The City may therefore sell property
      dedicated under its ordinances in the same manner as it could sell other property.
                                                Review
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Highland City, on October 4, 2013. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Shane Morris, a property developer referred by
Highland City, at 1186 North 210 East, American Fork, UT 84003, the address provided by
Highland City. The letter to Mr. Morris was returned to this Office on November 8, 2013
unopened. Mr. Morris’ address was verified the Division of Corporations and sent via certified
mail to Shane Morris at 1186 North 210 West, American Fork, Utah 84003. The letter to Mr.
Morris was once again returned to this Office on December 9, 2013 as unclaimed.

                                               Evidence
The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

     1.          Request for an Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Timothy G. Merrill,
                 attorney for Highland City, received by the Office of the Property Rights
                 Ombudsman, October 4, 2013.

     NOTE: This Opinion was requested by Highland City to review its ordinances. This request
     was apparently made at the suggestion of homebuilders developing land in the City. No
     response to the request was received.

                                               Background
This Opinion concerns ordinances adopted by Highland City allowing clustering or higher
densities of residential units (i.e., “density bonuses”) for developers who donate open space. The
City has asked the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman to evaluate (1) whether open space
dedicated to the City as provided in these ordinances constitutes an exaction within the meaning
of § 10-9a-508, and (2) if open space dedicated under the ordinances may be sold or transferred
by the City.




Advisory Opinion – Highland City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 26, 2013 Page 2 of 8
Like most local governments, Highland City encourages development of parks or open spaces to
enhance the City aesthetically, protect natural amenities such as wetlands or forested areas, and
to provide recreational opportunities. Highland City has adopted an “open space” ordinance,
applicable to its R-1-20 and R-1-40 zones, giving developers the option of dedicating open space
in exchange for “clustering” residential density. 1 Following the criteria established in the
ordinance, a developer may propose a subdivision plat showing clustered residences and
providing areas dedicated for open space. The proposal would be considered as part of the
normal plat approval process, and the City may reject the proposal. Dedicating open space in
exchange for density clustering is at the option of the developer. Property designated as open
space may be dedicated to the City, transferred to an approved private conservation organization,
or owned by a homeowner’s association. 2

The City’s Development Code also contains separate provisions allowing developers to receive
density bonuses in exchange for open space. 3 The ordinance establishes a point scale through
which developers may “earn” additional density (that is, more homes per acre than the maximum
allowed by the zoning ordinance) by dedicating open space. Points are based on the amount of
open space dedicated. Additional points may be awarded by “enhancements,” which include such
things as trails, “quality” natural areas, “view-sheds,” landscaping, and consistent architectural
features within a development.4 Like the possible open space dedications in exchange for
clustering, the dedication is voluntary, and is subject to approval by the City. 5

The City’s ordinances spell out the criteria used to evaluate a proposed dedication in exchange
for either clustering or density bonuses, as well as the procedure to approve a plat with dedicated
open space. These criteria include consideration of the property’s value as open space,
preservation of natural vegetation, potential for recreational uses, etc. 6 The City indicates that it
enters into agreements with developers to govern specific developments (including dedication of
open space), but the ordinances do not require such agreements.




1
  See HIGHLAND CITY DEVELOPMENT CODE, §§ 5-4-401 to -409 (“Open Space Subdivision Option”). “Clustering”
places homes in a smaller area than that allowed by the zoning ordinance. Under the City’s ordinance, the same
number of homes could be built, but in a smaller area. This would allow developers an option to dedicate open
space that may not be suitable for homes (such as steep slopes or wetland areas), while still constructing the same
number of units.
2
  The property may remain in a natural state, or developed for recreational uses (such as public trails, etc.)
3
  See HIGHLAND CITY DEVELOPMENT CODE, §§ 3-4801 to -4809 (“Open Space Density Bonus”). This is similar to
approval for clustered development, but a developer could receive approval to build more units per acre. The
provision is only applicable to the City’s R-1-40 zone (roughly 1 unit per acre).
4
  See id., § 3-4806(19). A “view-shed” refers to unobstructed views of natural areas.
5
  The proposal would be approved by the City’s Planning Commission and the City Council, as part of the
subdivision plat approval process.
6
  See e.g., id., § 5-4-407(1)(g) (“Evaluation Criteria”); and § 3-4807(1)(f) (“Evaluation Criteria”). A specific
consideration is whether the open spaces dedicated will connect together, forming a network throughout the City.
Id., §§ 5-4-407(1)(f) and 3-4807(1)(d).

Advisory Opinion – Highland City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 26, 2013 Page 3 of 8
                                                 Analysis
     I. The City May Accept Open Space in Exchange for Development Concessions,
        Subject to Statutory and Constitutional Limitations.

           A. Government Authority is Always Subject to Statutory and Constitutional Limits

Although local governments enjoy broad latitude to carry out their objectives, that discretion is
tempered by constitutional and statutory constraints. “Local governments, as subdivisions of the
State, exercise those powers granted to them by the State Legislature . . . and the exercise of a
delegated power is subject to the limitations imposed by state statutes, and state and federal
constitutions. A state cannot empower local governments to do that which the state itself does
not have authority to do.” State v. Hutchinson, 624 P.2d 1116, 1121 (Utah 1980) (citation
omitted). Thus, a local government must act within the statutory and constitutional framework
that both defines and limits its authority.

           When the State has granted general welfare power to local governments, those
           governments have independent authority apart from, and in addition to, specific
           grants of authority to pass ordinances which are reasonably and appropriately
           related to the objectives of that power, . . .. [C]ourts will not interfere with the
           legislative choice of the means selected unless it is arbitrary, or is directly
           prohibited by, or is inconsistent with the policy of, the state or federal laws or the
           constitution of this State or of the United States.

Id., 624 P.2d at 1126.

These limits apply even when local governments enter contracts with private entities. The Utah
Supreme Court has explained that while local governments have broad authority to contract with
private interests, they may not violate statutory or constitutional provisions. See Price
Development Company, LP v. Orem City, 2000 UT 26, ¶ 23, 995 P.2d 1237, 1245. Price concerned
agreements to refund tax revenue to retailers in exchange for commitments to remain as tenants
in the University Mall. 7 The agreements were challenged as violating constitutional and
statutory restrictions on collection and expenditure of local taxes. The court held that the
agreements did not exceed any constitutional or statutory limits, but that such limits could not be
ignored. As an incentive to the retailers, Orem proposed to pay them an amount equal to a
portion of the sales taxes collected each year. 8

The court rejected an argument that Orem was effectively granting an illegal tax exemption to
the retailers. Price Dev. Co., 2000 UT 26, ¶ 18, 995 P.2d at 1245. The court noted that the
7
  University Mall is located in Orem. The agreements were sparked by the construction of a new shopping mall in
Provo. Orem feared that major tenants would move from University Mall to the new shopping center in the
neighboring city, luring shoppers away and reducing the City’s sales tax revenue.
8
  The payment was capped according to a formula established in the agreement. The money was to help fund
improvements to the mall as well as a marketing campaign.

Advisory Opinion – Highland City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 26, 2013 Page 4 of 8
incentive was not a tax exemption, but payments from Orem’s tax revenue. “Local governments
must abide by the explicit limitations the constitution and statutes place on [them], but if they
can find an alternative permissible way to achieve the same end, [a court] will not stand in their
way.” Price Dev. Co., 2000 UT 26, ¶ 23, 995 P.2d at 1245 (emphasis added). The court reasoned
that once the taxes were collected, Orem could spend the revenue and improve economic
conditions by retaining major retailers. Tax incentives are often used to foster private economic
investment. There was no statutory or constitutional violation, essentially because Orem had
discretion over how to spend its tax revenue. The city had thus found an alternative way to
achieve the same result as a tax exemption.

The court contrasted Orem’s incentive program with a tax exemption addressed in Mountain
States Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Ogden City. 9 In that case, Ogden granted tax exemptions to
utility franchises. 10 The court held that Ogden did not have authority to grant such exemptions,
and so its scheme was invalidated. In contrast, Orem’s incentive program did not grant illegal
exemptions, but spent city revenue for an acceptable purpose. Orem’s agreements validly spent
public revenue, while Ogden’s exemptions were unauthorized uses of public authority.

A government entity may not escape statutory or constitutional limits simply by signing an
agreement. Government is always subject to limits imposed by statute, and especially to limits
imposed by state and federal constitutions. See Hutchinson, 624 P.2d at 1121. 11 Those limits
are, in essence, incorporated into any agreement entered by a public agency. 12 Although local
governments have broad latitude to enter and execute development agreements, they nevertheless
do not cease to be public agencies when an agreement is signed. 13

           B. The City May Grant Development Concessions in Exchange for Open Space.

The City’s ordinances allowing developers to dedicate open space in exchange for development
concessions are within the City’s authority. See UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-102(2). 14 The City,
however, is subject to statutory and constitutional provisions which protect property owners from
9
  26 Utah 2d 190, 487 P.2d 849 (1971).
10
   The agreement allowed utility franchises to pay a 2% tax on gross revenue generated within the city in lieu of
other taxes. Mountain States, 26 Utah 2d at 191, 487 P.2d at 849.
11
   See also Toll Brothers v. County of Burlington, 944 A.2d 1, 18 (N.J. 2008) (“The exercise of . . . power must
conform with the [New Jersey Municipal Land Use Law] even if embodied in a contract; a developer and a
municipality cannot do by contract what the statute prohibits.”)
12
   See Building Industry of Central California v. City of Patterson, 90 Cal. Rptr. 3d 63, 75 (Cal. Ct. App 2009)
(amended portions at 2009 Cal. App. LEXIS 399). The California Court of Appeals held that “constitutional
scrutiny” prohibiting extortionate fees and exactions applied to an “in lieu” fee established by a development
agreement. That scrutiny limited governmental authority and was “incorporated into the Development Agreement.”
     In a sense, limits on parties are incorporated into any contract. For example, a person cannot enter a valid
contract to carry out an illegal act, such as the sale of stolen goods; nor may a party enter a contract if performance
is impossible; such as the sale of property which does not belong to the party. A contract does not make the act
valid, and the limitations are at least implied in a contract, if not expressly stated. In a similar manner, a government
entity may not enter a contract to do something that would violate the entity’s authority.
13
   “A municipality cannot act as an individual does. It must proceed in conformity with the statutes, or . . . the
common law, by ordinance or resolution or emotion. Especially this is so where real property is concerned.” Toll
Bros., 944 A.2d at 18 (citations and original alterations omitted).
14
   “Open space” listed as one of the areas in which municipalities may regulate.

Advisory Opinion – Highland City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 26, 2013 Page 5 of 8
excessive fees and requirements. Thus, when it carries out its ordinances, and allows developers
to dedicate open space in exchange for additional density or clustering, the City must act within
the framework of regulations protecting private property rights.

This Opinion does not address a specific proposal from any specific developer to dedicate open
space, and so this analysis is limited to general terms only. The City’s ordinances anticipate a
voluntary exchange of open space for development concessions. This indicates that a developer
receives value (in the form of the development concessions), and that the City also receives value
(in the form of the open space). As long as the exchange is voluntary and is a fair exchange of
value, it should not cross any constitutional barriers. 15

     II. Because the Open Space Dedications are Voluntary, They Are not Exactions.

           A. Voluntary Dedications Are Not Exactions

Because developers have the option to dedicate open space to take advantage of the City’s
ordinances, the dedications are not exactions. “A development exaction is a government-
mandated contribution of property imposed as a condition of approving a developer’s project.”
B.A.M. Development, L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, 2012 UT 26, ¶ 16 (emphasis added). If a
dedication is voluntary, it is not “government-mandated,” and cannot be an exaction. On the
other hand, a dedication that was required in order to obtain development approval would be
mandatory, and would therefore be an exaction. Local governments may require exactions,
which are governed by language in the Utah Code. 16 However, since a voluntary dedication
cannot be an exaction, the statute would not apply.

Although a voluntary dedication is not an exaction, it still must be fundamentally fair to the
developer. This comports with the general principles of fairness which underlie takings and
exactions law, which is to “bar Government from forcing some people alone to bear public
burdens, which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.” Armstrong
v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960); see also Dolan v. Tigard, 512 U.S. 374, 384 (1994). 17 In
order to satisfy constitutional scrutiny, the dedication must not be extortionate. As has already
been discussed, as long as the development concessions are a fair exchange for the open space,
the dedications would likely satisfy constitutional requirements.




15
   See generally Price, 2000 UT 26, ¶ 27, 995 P.2d at 1247. In Price, the court stated that when public property is
transferred, the public entity must receive fair value. Following a similar approach, if the City concedes
development rights, it should also receive fair value for those rights. If necessary, an appraisal may determine the
values of the development rights and open space.
16
    See UTAH CODE ANN. §§ 10-9a-508 and 17-27a-507. These sections adopt the Nollan/Dolan “rough
proportionality” analysis, and also regulate other aspects of exactions. See B.A.M. Development v. Salt Lake County,
2006 UT 2, ¶ 46, 128 P.3d 1161, 1170.
17
   The Utah Constitution provides similar protections. B.A.M. Development, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 31, 128 P.3d at 1168.

Advisory Opinion – Highland City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 26, 2013 Page 6 of 8
           B. The City May Sell Land Dedicated as Open Space.

Because the exaction statute does not apply to voluntary dedications, nothing restricts the City
from selling open space given in exchange for development concessions. The exaction statute
includes a restriction on property acquired as an exaction:

           (4)(a) If a municipality plans to dispose of surplus real property that was acquired
           under this section and has been owned by the municipality for less than 15 years,
           the municipality shall first offer to reconvey the property, without receiving
           additional consideration, to the person who granted the property to the
           municipality.
                   (b) A person to whom a municipality offers to reconvey property under
                       Subsection (4)(a) has 90 days to accept or reject the municipality's
                       offer.
                   (c) If a person to whom a municipality offers to reconvey property
                       declines the offer, the municipality may offer the property for sale.
                   (d) Subsection (4)(a) does not apply to the disposal of property acquired
                       by exaction by a community development and renewal agency.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-508(4). With some exceptions, this statute requires that any property
acquired as an exaction must be offered back to the original owner.

Since the exaction statute does not apply, the City is free to sell any open space dedicated under
its ordinances. The City is not obligated to offer the property back to the original dedicator. It
may sell or transfer the property in the same manner as any other property not subject to the
restrictions of § 508(4). 18 Additional restrictions may apply to the future and ongoing use of
such property, such as whether it must remain open space after sale. Those restrictions would
depend on the types of agreements or restrictions upon the property in place at the time of
dedication.

                                                     Conclusion
In all actions, government agencies are subject to statutory and constitutional provisions. Local
governments have broad discretion to carry out their objectives, but their authority is defined by
state statute, as well as constitutional provisions. A local government cannot do what is
prohibited by law. This restriction applies when governments enter voluntary agreements with
private parties. A local government does not cease being a public entity simply because it enters
a contract. The statutory and constitutional framework that limits governmental authority should
be considered as being incorporated into agreements entered by governmental agencies.



18
     The City would be subject to other statutes and ordinances governing the sale or disposal of its property.

Advisory Opinion – Highland City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 26, 2013 Page 7 of 8
The City’s ordinances providing that developers may dedicate open space in exchange for
development concessions is a valid exercise of the City’s authority, and carries out a legitimate
governmental objective. As long as the property owner receives a fair exchange for the open
space, it should be constitutionally acceptable. Because the dedications are voluntary, and not
mandatory, they are not exactions, and the exaction statute in the Utah Code does not apply.
Thus, that statute places no restrictions on the City’s ability to sell property that is dedicated as
open space under its ordinances.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Highland City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 26, 2013 Page 8 of 8
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

              Wini Jensen, City Recorder
              Highland City
              5378 W. 10400 North
              Highland, UT 84003

On this ___________ Day of December, 2013, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
