                     Advisory Opinion #193
                                   Parties: Carol Abbott; Sevier County
                                           Issued: January 25, 2018

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:
                           Requirements Imposed Upon Development
                         Compliance with Mandatory Land Use Ordinances

Counties possess broad authority to regulate and permit subdivision of land in
unincorporated areas within its borders. If a property owner desires to subdivide
land to create new building lots, she must follow the county ordinance’s applicable
procedures and requirements.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI      BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director     Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION
        Advisory Opinion Requested By:                Carol Abbott

        Local Government Entity:                      Sevier County

        Type of Property:                             Recreational

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:                January 25, 2018

        Opinion Authored By:                          Jordan S. Cullimore
                                                      Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                       ISSUE
        May Sevier County require Ms. Abbott to comply with the County’s subdivision requirements
        prior to obtaining additional building permits for development?


                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        Counties possess broad authority to regulate and permit subdivision of land in unincorporated
        areas within its borders. If a property owner desires to subdivide land to create new building lots,
        she must follow the county ordinance’s applicable procedures and requirements.

                                                     REVIEW
        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
        administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
        application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
        hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
        neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
        the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
        the courts.
A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Carol Abbott on August 22, 2017. A copy
of that request was sent via certified mail to Steve C. Wall, County Clerk/Auditor, Sevier County,
at 250 North Main Street, Richfield, Utah. The County received the request on August 29, 2017.

                                           EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

       1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Carol Abbott on August 22, 2017.
       2. Sevier County Subdivision Submittal Requirements, submitted by Jason Mackelprang,
          Building Inspector and Zoning Administrator for Sevier County, on December 7, 2017.

                                          BACKGROUND
Ms. Abbott originally owned 960 acres of seasonally-accessible mountain property in rural
Sevier County (the “County”), 41 miles from the town of Monroe. According to the materials
submitted, Ms. Abbott has, over a period of time, sold separate portions of the 960 acres to three
interested buyers. 320 acres remain under Ms. Abbott’s control. The remaining land is located in
the County’s GRF-20S Grazing, Recreation, and Forestry Seasonal Zone.

When Ms. Abbott recently approached the County about further dividing and selling off
additional building lots, County officials instructed her she would need to go through the formal
subdivision process required by the Sevier County Code (the “County Code”) to create sellable
building lots and qualify for additional building permits.

Upon learning this, Ms. Abbott submitted a Request for Advisory Opinion to this Office. The
Requests asks us to examine the question of whether it is reasonable and lawful for the County to
require her to go through the County’s formal subdivision process to create new building lots.

                                           ANALYSIS
The Utah State Code grants each county in Utah broad authority to “provide for the health, safety
and welfare” of the county and its residents by enacting “ordinances…and rules…that [the
county] consider[s] necessary or appropriate for the use and development of land within the
unincorporated area of the county.” UTAH CODE § 17-27a-102(1)(a)-(b). Pursuant to the County
Land Use, Development, and Management Act1 a county may enact a subdivision ordinance
governing how unincorporated land within its boundaries may be divided and developed. See
UTAH CODE §§ 17-27a-601, 603.

Sevier County has enacted such an ordinance. Sevier County Code § 13.04.010 provides that
“[n]o person shall divide, resubdivide, or propose to divide land which is located…in Sevier
County into two or more (any division of land) lots…for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, for offer, sale lease or development…, except in compliance with” the County’s

1
    Title 17-27a of the Utah Code.
Advisory Opinion – Carol Abbott
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 25, 2018       Page 2 of 3
subdivision ordinance and other applicable regulations. SEVIER COUNTY CODE § 13.04.010(A).
Moreover, Section 13.04.040 of the Code further provides the following:

           [T]he building official shall not grant a permit, nor shall any officer of Sevier
           County grant any license or permit for the use of any land or the construction or
           alteration of any building or structure on a lot which would be in violation of any
           of the provisions of [the subdivision ordinance]…until a subdivision plat thereof
           has been recorded, or approved as required by [the subdivision ordinance].

SEVIER COUNTY CODE § 13.04.040 (emphasis added).

Consequently, if Ms. Abbott desires to further subdivide her remaining 320 acres, she must
comply with existing provisions of the County Code and follow the County’s formal subdivision
process to create new building lots that qualify for additional building permits. The fact that Ms.
Abbott was apparently able to divide off and sell parcels of land in the past without following the
formal subdivision process is irrelevant to the present circumstance. The County is obligated to
require compliance with the existing ordinance when new development is proposed. See UTAH
CODE § 17-27a-508(2) (indicating that “[a] county is bound by the terms and standards of
applicable land use regulations and shall comply with mandatory provisions of those
regulations”).

If Ms. Abbott plans to subdivide her remaining 320 acres into 5 or more building lots, she will
need to follow the full subdivision process outlined in Title 13 of the County Code. If she plans
to subdivide the land into 4 building lots or fewer she may apply to have her proposed
subdivision designated as a “minor subdivision” if the proposal meets certain additional
conditions. See SEVIER COUNTY CODE §§ 13.12.060-070. The minor subdivision process may
take less time to complete than the full subdivision process since the preliminary and final plats
may be considered at the same Planning Commission meeting, instead of separately. SEVIER
COUNTY CODE § 13.04.070.

In either case, she will be obligated to also comply with applicable zoning standards and
requirements, and any other applicable regulations.

                                            CONCLUSION
Sevier County possesses authority under Utah law to require Ms. Abbott to comply with the
County’s subdivision ordinance. Consequently, she will need to comply with all applicable
County Code requirements if she plans to subdivide her land into new building lots that will
qualify for additional building permits.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


Advisory Opinion – Carol Abbott
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 25, 2018       Page 3 of 3
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                      Steven C. Wall
                      Sevier County Clerk/Auditor
                      250 North Main Street
                      Richfield, UT 84701

On this ___________ Day of _______, 2018, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
