                     Advisory Opinion #214
                                   Parties: R. Paul Evans; City of Provo
                                          Issued: August 6, 2019

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                      Interpretation of Ordinances
                                     Appealing Land Use Decisions

Mr. Evans lacks legal standing to raise this claim, and likewise is not the property party
to request an Advisory Opinion from this office. Mr. Evans has not alleged a legally
cognizable, distinct, and palpable injury that gives rise to a personal stake in the
outcome of the dispute.

Mr. Evans, on behalf of himself and other neighboring property owner interests he
represents, alleges that the large electronic display sign erected by Blue Rock Medical
affects their aesthetic and recreational enjoyment of the area and may diminish the
property values of a home in a neighboring subdivision. Such generalized harms do not
provide standing, nor do they qualify this matter for an Advisory Opinion.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI       BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director      Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                                 ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:                 R. Paul Evans

        Local Government Entity:                       City of Provo

        Type of Property:                              Commercial

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 August 6, 2019

        Opinion Authored By:                           Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                        ISSUE

        Does a recently constructed, large, electronic display sign violate Provo City Code?

                                         SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

        Based on the information provided, R. Paul Evans lacks legal standing to raise this claim, and
        likewise is not the proper party to request an Advisory Opinion from this office. Mr. Evans has
        not alleged a legally cognizable, distinct, and palpable injury that gives rise to a personal stake in
        the outcome of the dispute. Mr. Evans, on behalf of himself and the other neighboring property
        owner interests he represents, alleges that the large electronic display sign erected by Blue Rock
        Medical affects their aesthetic and recreational enjoyment of the area and may diminish the
        property values of a home in a neighboring subdivision. Such generalized harms do not provide
        standing, nor do they qualify this matter for an Advisory Opinion.

                                                      REVIEW

        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
        administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
        application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
        hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
        neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from R. Paul Evans on January 22, 2019. A
copy of that request was then sent via certified mail to Amanda Ercanbrack, Provo City
Recorder, 351 West Center Street, Provo, Utah 84601.

                                                EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by R. Paul Evans, on January 22, 2019.
     2. Response received from Marcus O. Draper, Provo City Attorney’s Office, on February 5,
        2019.
     3. Response received from R. Paul Evans on February 25, 2019.
     4. Response received from Marcus O. Draper, Provo City Attorney’s Office, on March 13,
        2019.
     5. Response received from R. Paul Evans on March 19, 2019.
     6. Response received from Marcus O. Draper, Provo City Attorney’s Office, on April 1,
        2019.
     7. Response received from R. Paul Evans on April 12, 2019.

                                              BACKGROUND

According to the record, Blue Rock Medical, LLC purchased the property located at 3152 North
University Avenue in December of 2010.1 At that time, Provo City Code allowed a single sign
with a face no larger than sixty square feet and a height of no more than ten feet. In May of 2013
and again in February of 2018, Provo City amended the relevant City Code provisions to restrict
electronic display signs in the area.

In September of 2016, Blue Rock requested a City Code amendment which would have allowed
an electronic display sign on the subject property with a sign face over 700 square feet. Provo
City Council unanimously voted to deny the proposed amendment. In response, the following
month, Blue Rock filed a lawsuit alleging that Provo City violated Blue Rock’s due process,
equal protection, and free speech rights guaranteed under the Constitution, and that the sign
regulations amounted to a regulatory taking.

Two years later, Blue Rock and Provo City settled the lawsuit out of court by signing a
settlement agreement which permits Blue Rock to construct and operate an electronic display
sign with a face no larger than 232 square feet, and a height of no more than seventeen and one
half feet. The settlement agreement notes that the sign is “being permitted by the City as a


1
  Background information is taken from the record provided by Mr. Evans. Provo City did not address the issues
leading up to this advisory opinion in any of their responses.


Advisory Opinion – R. Paul Evans/Provo City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 6, 2019                  Page 2 of 7
grandfathered non-conforming use.” According to the record provided by Mr. Evans, the City
Code still only permits a sign with a face of sixty square feet which is no taller than ten feet tall.

Construction on the sign began in December 2018. The sign is now complete and operational.

In the record, Mr. Evans briefly alleges that the sign damages the “aesthetic, recreational, and
environmental values” enjoyed by himself and his neighbors. Mr. Evans uses the two walking
and biking trails along North University Avenue for “enjoyment, exercise, and connection with
natural beauty.” In addition, Mr. Evans uses the corridor for travel by private vehicle and public
transportation to visit his disabled daughter who resides nearby. Mr. Evans also alleges that the
property value of the home owned by Linen Fields, LLC, 0.7 miles away and on a different road,
will diminish as a result of the sign.

                                                    ANALYSIS

Mr. Evans’ advisory opinion request raises several legal questions, the first of which is whether
he is an appropriate party to submit a request on this matter. Provo City argues that Mr. Evans
has suffered no direct injury attributable to the electronic display sign and therefore, this office is
precluded by law from issuing an advisory opinion based on his request.

To determine whether this advisory opinion request falls within the purview of this office, we
will first examine standing requirements to bring a matter before the Utah courts, then apply as
appropriate, the corresponding requirements to request an Advisory Opinion from this office.

     I.        Standing Requirements in Utah Courts

Standing is a legal term that means the right to have a court adjudicate a matter in which one is
interested.

          Standing is a jurisdictional requirement that must be satisfied before a court may
          entertain a controversy between two parties. . . . The issue of standing requires the
          court to focus on whether the parties have both a sufficient interest in the subject
          matter of the dispute and a sufficient adverseness so that the issues can be
          properly explored.2

Utah courts have a well-established rule that to have traditional standing as a third-party to a land
use decision a party must establish a particularized injury or special damages.3 “A party must
both allege and prove special damages peculiar to himself in order to entitle him to maintain an
action to enjoin [a] violation of a zoning ordinance. His damage must be over and above the
public injury [that] may be caused by the violation of the zoning ordinance.”4 To enjoin a zoning
violation, a party must establish that their damage “differ[s] in kind or [is] substantially more


2
  Specht v. Big Water Town, 2007 UT App 335, ¶ 8.
3
  See, e.g., Id.
4
  Id. at ¶ 10.


Advisory Opinion – R. Paul Evans/Provo City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 6, 2019                  Page 3 of 7
than [the injury to] the general community.”5 In short, the party must demonstrate that they are
aggrieved in way that a member of the general public is not.

Provo City maintains that Mr. Evans has failed to establish such harms, and therefore, lacks
standing on this issue. Mr. Evans claims the sign will adversely affect his (1) recreational
interests and (2) the overall environment and aesthetic qualities of the vicinity. He also claims
that (3) the sign diminishes the property value of the home Linen Fields owns 0.7 miles away.
Each claim of injury will be discussed in turn.

Mr. Evans first contends that the sign interferes with his recreational interests. Mr. Evans claims
that the sign negates the open urban forest landscape feel he enjoys while using the two walking
and biking trails in the area. Mr. Evans notes that in Sierra Club v. Utah Air Quality Bd. the Court
stated that “recreational interests are legally cognizable interests for purposes of our standing
analysis.”6 However, the court also stated that “not all allegations of injury to recreational
interests will automatically qualify.”7 The recreational harms included in the record are largely
unsupported statements, would apply to the general community population, and do not define a
particularized injury. Therefore, the alleged recreational harms do not provide standing.

Mr. Evans next contends that the sign will affect the overall environment and aesthetic qualities
of the area. However, the sign is in a commercially zoned area, built out with office, medical
office, and strip commercial uses. Many properties in the vicinity have large pylon signs along
University Avenue. The adjacent properties to the north and to the south each operate a large
electronic display sign installed prior to the 2013 City Code restrictions. The palpable injury to
area aesthetics caused by the presence of an additional large electronic display sign on the
property is not articulated in the record and not otherwise evident. Therefore, the alleged
aesthetic harms do not provide standing.

Next, Mr. Evans claims that the sign will diminish the property value of a home Linen Fields
owns 0.7 miles away. The record lacks analysis supporting this allegation, stating only that Mr.
Evans “believes that the illegal sign at Blue Rock will result in a decreased property value.” The
record neither provides evidence that the home will suffer a reduction in value, nor a direct
connection between the challenged action and purported future harms. Such unsupported
allegations do not provide standing.

Therefore, the harms alleged in the record by Mr. Evans would not provide him traditional
standing before Utah courts.

In addition to traditional standing discussed above, Utah courts provide non-aggrieved parties an
additional avenue to the courts via alternative standing.8 The Utah Supreme Court has extended


5
  Id.
6
  Utah Chapter of the Sierra Club v. Utah Air Quality Bd., 2006 UT 74 ¶ 30.
7
  Id.
8
  See, e.g., Jenkins v. Swan 75 P.2d 1145, 1150 (Utah 1983) (recognizing an alternative means by which a party can
prove standing by showing that it is an appropriate party raising issues of significant public importance).


Advisory Opinion – R. Paul Evans/Provo City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 6, 2019                  Page 4 of 7
alternative standing (1) to an appropriate party who (2) raises issues of great significance that
would not otherwise be raised.9

According to the established test for alternative standing, a party is an appropriate party if it
demonstrates that it has “the interest necessary to effectively assist the court in developing and
reviewing all relevant legal and factual questions”10 Mr. Evans states that he served as Provo
City Riverbottoms Neighborhood Chair when the existing sign standards for the area were
enacted. As such, he was directly involved in drafting and refining the ordinance language and
had a hand in shepherding it through the approval process. He was also the party who identified
the alleged sign violation in question and filed the relevant appeal with the Provo City Board of
Adjustment. As such, he claims he is an appropriate party to raise this issue. However, Mr.
Evans no longer lives in the area and does not appear to be impacted differently than the average
interested community resident. His history with passing the sign code does not equate to
sufficient interest. Therefore, Mr. Evans is not an appropriate party warranting alternative
standing.

Even were Mr. Evans an appropriate party, he would need to demonstrate that “the issues [he]
seeks to raise ‘are of sufficient public importance in and of themselves’ to warrant granting the
party standing.”11 This requires the court to determine not only that the issues are of a sufficient
weight but also that they are not more appropriately addressed by another branch of government
pursuant to the political process.12 The more generalized the issues, the more likely they ought to
be resolved in the legislative or executive branches.”13

Mr. Evans briefly alleges that aesthetic harms caused by the sign are of great significance.
Where the sign is in a commercial area with multiple pylon signs, and at least two electronic
display signs in the immediate vicinity, the evidence in the record does not support this
conclusion.

As Mr. Evans is not an appropriate party to raise this issue, and he has not alleged the violation
of a significant issue, he does not have standing under the alternative standing test.

Therefore, given the information provided in the record, Mr. Evans would not have standing in a
Utah court of law under either the traditional or alternative standing tests.




9
  Id.
10
   Utah Chapter of the Sierra Club v. Utah Air Quality Bd., 2006 UT 74 ¶36 quoting Jenkins v. Swan 75 P.2d 1145,
1150 (Utah 1983).
11
   Id.
12
   Id.
13
   Id.


Advisory Opinion – R. Paul Evans/Provo City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 6, 2019                  Page 5 of 7
     II.       Limits on the authority of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman to issue
               Advisory Opinions

Standing14 requirements established by Utah courts are not synonymous with standards
governing the legal right to bring the same issue to this office for an advisory opinion. The two
thresholds are related, but not identical.

To request an advisory opinion from this office, according to state law, a party must be either (1)
a local government, (2) a private entity, or (3) a potentially aggrieved party. UTAH CODE § 13-
43-205. As Mr. Evans is neither a local government nor a directly involved private entity15, he
must meet the eligibility requirements as a potentially aggrieved third-party.16

The authority of this office to issue an advisory opinion differs from standing in Utah courts in
two key ways. First, the traditional standing test Utah courts use determines whether a party is
aggrieved. By statute, this office instead uses the lower hurdle of potentially aggrieved. Second,
Utah courts have extended standing to non-aggrieved parties through an alternative standing test.
The Ombudsman Act does not similarly extend the authority of this office over such non-
aggrieved parties. Due to these differences, it is possible that a party could have standing in Utah
courts, but fall outside the authority of this office to issue an advisory opinion, and vice versa.

Neither potentially aggrieved, nor aggrieved are defined by state statute. Where clarifying
statutes are missing, we turn to the common law and the ordinary meaning and usage of the
words. As discussed above, Utah Courts have defined aggrieved party in established traditional
standing tests. This standard can then be appropriately broadened to account for parties
potentially demonstrating such aggrieved status. Potentially is an adverb meaning with the
inherent capacity for coming into being. It describes something that could happen or might be
true. Potentially is a lower bar than probably and a higher bar than perhaps.



14
   This Office is not a court of law, and although this Office does have statutory limitations similar to the concepts of
standing and jurisdiction, those terms are reserved for official court use. Although our statutory limits are often
discussed in terms of standing or jurisdiction, they are in fact statutorily imposed limitations to our ability to produce
Advisory Opinions. Herein, this office will refer to standing in purely the sense of the ability to bring an action to
court. Standing will not be used to refer to the ability to request an advisory opinion from this office.
15
   Mr. Evans has argued that he also has standing as a private entity. The rules of ordinance interpretation require
that we “presume that the legislative body used each word advisedly.” Harold Selman, Inc. v. Box Elder County,
2011 UT 18, ¶ 18. Additionally, we are to “read the plain language of the statute as a whole, and interpret its
provisions in harmony with other statutes in the same chapter.” Id. As both “private entity” and “aggrieved party”
are listed in the relevant statute as distinct entities, they must also be defined as distinct entities. To do otherwise
would render one of the entries moot. An “aggrieved party” is a third-party indirectly suffering particular damages
as a result of a governmental land use decision. It follows that “private entity” cannot be the same such affected
third-parties. Instead, it is logical that “private entities” would be limited to those persons directly involved in the
land use decision. Herein, Blue Rock Medical, not Mr. Evans, would qualify as a private entity for the purpose of
determining eligibility for an advisory opinion.
16
   While initially filing the request for advisory opinion as an individual, Mr. Evans has joined the interests of Linen
Fields LLC, a company which he is a member and manager of, and other neighbors with “like concerns and
standing,” to his own interests. For the sake of simplicity, all such interests are included in any reference to “Mr.
Evans’ interests.”


Advisory Opinion – R. Paul Evans/Provo City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 6, 2019                  Page 6 of 7
Therefore, Mr. Evans must demonstrate that he has the inherent capacity to establish a
particularized injury or special damages have occurred. The alleged harms must show the
possibility of differing in kind or being substantially more than the injury to the general
community.

Mr. Evans allegations do not reach this lower hurdle. As detailed above, Mr. Evans alleges
damage to (1) recreational interests as pedestrians and cyclists (2) aesthetic harms where there
are numerous commercial pylon signs as well as at least two electronic display signs, and (3) the
alleged drop in value to a home 0.7 miles away on a different road. In the interest of furthering
alternative dispute resolution, we generally interpret statutes governing our authority broadly, but
our reach is not unlimited. Granting this office authority over this request is a stretch too far.
None of the harms Mr. Evans alleged in the record have the inherent capacity to establish a
particularized injury or special damages. Each are generalized harms, potentially experienced by
Mr. Evans in no greater degree than the general community suffers.

In summary, we find the harms Mr. Evans alleges insufficient to support a claim as a potentially
aggrieved party, as required by state statute. Therefore, Mr. Evans is not the appropriate party to
request an advisory opinion from this office on this issue.

We express no further opinion regarding the legal questions raised by the advisory opinion
request.

                                              CONCLUSION

Based on the information provided, R. Paul Evans lacks legal standing to raise this claim, and
likewise is not the proper party to request an Advisory Opinion from this office. Mr. Evans has
not alleged a legally cognizable, distinct, and palpable injury that gives rise to a personal stake in
the outcome of the dispute. Mr. Evans, on behalf of himself and the other neighboring property
owner interests he represents, allege that the large electronic display sign erected by Blue Rock
Medical affects their aesthetic and recreational enjoyment of the area and may diminish the
property values of a home in a neighboring subdivision. Such generalized harms do not provide
standing, nor do they qualify this matter for an Advisory Opinion.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – R. Paul Evans/Provo City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 6, 2019                  Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                      Amanda Ercanbrack
                      Provo City Recorder
                      351 West Center Street
                      Provo, Utah 84601

On this ___ Day of August, 2019, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
