                       Advisory Opinion 276
                              Parties: Colts Neck Investments, Lindon City

                                        Issued: September 27, 2023

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                         Compliance with Mandatory Land Use Ordinances
                                  Interpretation of Ordinances

The plain language of City Code requires that a visual buffer be installed along the northern, public
street-facing side of a commercial property intended for use as a storage lot for an adjacent
business. However, application of City Code results in two possible visual buffers through applicable
fencing/landscaping standards under which the proposed commercial use could apply.

First, the City Code lawfully requires that a landscaped buffer, which is 20’-wide and begins at the
back of the sidewalk, be installed and maintained in connection with use of the storage lot. In
addition to the landscape buffer, the Code includes outdoor storage and merchandise screening
fencing standards which requires that a 6’-tall opaque fence be installed behind the buffer area.

Alternatively, the Code includes provisions for residential/nonresidential screening fence standards
which requires the Property Owner to install a 7’-tall masonry or concrete fence on top of the
property boundary to screen the commercial use from the adjoining residential zone. However, if the
7’-tall masonry or concrete fence is installed on top of the property boundary, no landscaped buffer
may be required.

The Property Owner may choose to submit (or amend) a land use application depicting either (1) a
20’-wide landscaped buffer area with a storage screening 6’-tall opaque fence at the rear of the
buffer area, or (2) a residential/nonresidential screening 7’-tall concrete/masonry wall along the
property boundary at the back of the sidewalk, with no landscaped area. The owner’s proposed use
would conform to the requirements of the applicable land use regulations under either approach.

                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor               MARGARET W. BUSSE         JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                             Executive Director         Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION

         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                Colts Neck Investments

         Local Government Entity:                      Lindon City

         Applicant for land Use Approval:              Colts Neck Investment

         Type of Property:                             Commercial

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                September 27, 2023

         Opinion Authored By:                          Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                        ISSUES

              1. May the City lawfully require a property owner to install and maintain a 20’-wide
                 landscape buffer along an entire street frontage effectively diminishing the usable lot area
                 by 20%?

              2. Do enhanced fence standards intended to screen commercial uses from residential uses
                 apply where the property abuts a public road with residences across the street and where
                 the fence will be set back 20’ from the property line?

                                          SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

         The plain language of City Code requires that a visual buffer be installed along the northern, public
         street-facing side of a commercial property intended for use as a storage lot for an adjacent
         business. However, application of City Code results in two possible visual buffers through
         applicable fencing/landscaping standards under which the proposed commercial use could apply.

         First, the City Code lawfully requires that a landscaped buffer, which is 20’-wide and begins at the
         back of the sidewalk, be installed and maintained in connection with use of the storage lot. In
         addition to the landscape buffer, the Code includes outdoor storage and merchandise screening
         fencing standards which requires that a 6’-tall opaque fence be installed behind the buffer area.

         Alternatively, the Code includes provisions for residential/nonresidential screening fence
         standards which requires the Property Owner to install a 7’-tall masonry or concrete fence on top
         of the property boundary to screen the commercial use from the adjoining residential zone.
However, if the 7’-tall masonry or concrete fence is installed on top of the property boundary, no
landscaped buffer may be required.

The Property Owner may choose to submit (or amend) a land use application depicting either (1)
a 20’-wide landscaped buffer area with a storage screening 6’-tall opaque fence at the rear of the
buffer area, or (2) a residential/nonresidential screening 7’-tall concrete/masonry wall along the
property boundary at the back of the sidewalk, with no landscaped area. The owner’s proposed use
would conform to the requirements of the applicable land use regulations under either approach.

                                                REVIEW

A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Title 13, Chapter 43, Section
205 of the Utah Code. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty
to exhaust administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a
land use application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue.
It is hoped that this can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral
forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end
of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Timothy Clyde on behalf of Colts Neck
Investments on April 7, 2023. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Adam Cowie,
City Administrator, Lindon City, 100 North State Street, Lindon, UT 84042.

                                               EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

      1. Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Timothy Clyde on behalf of Colts Neck
         Investments on April 7, 2023.
      2. Letter from Brian K. Haws, City Attorney, on behalf of Lindon City, on May 4, 2023.

                                              BACKGROUND

This Advisory Opinion asks whether the City can require the Property Owner to install and
maintain (1) a 20’-wide landscape buffer along the entire street frontage of a lot in use as outdoor
storage for an existing business on an adjacent lot as well as (2) a 7’-tall masonry or concrete wall.

Colts Neck Investment (the “Property Owner”) owns and operates a vinyl fencing business in
Lindon City (the “City”). This business has been in operation for twenty years. The Property
Owner has expanded the outdoor storage yard onto a vacant adjacent parcel that the Property
Owner also owns (the “Storage Lot”).

In 2019 and in accordance with local ordinances, the City required the Property Owner to rezone
the Storage Lot from residential to commercial to accommodate the storage of materials. As a
condition of the rezoning, the Property Owner was required to install curb, gutter, and sidewalk


Advisory Opinion – Colts Neck / Lindon City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 27, 2023 Page 2 of 9
and related public infrastructure improvements along the lot frontage of 400 North. The rezoning
also specifically required the Storage Lot to meet all City landscaping requirements.

Three years later, the Property Owner submitted a site plan application which included the required
roadway improvements as well as the proposed landscaping and fencing, with all improvements
to be installed in phases, with final phases of the work complete by December, 2025.

The Property Owner and the City disagree on the material required for the fence facing the street.
The Property Owner maintains that Lindon City Code (“City Code” or “Code”) Section 17.18.050
applies. This section applies to fences surrounding storage of materials and requires only a 6’-tall
“site obscuring” fence for storage yards. This storage screening section of Code would allow the
Property Owner to install chain link fencing with privacy slats.

City staff maintains that the code section regulating commercial developments abutting residential
zones applies instead. This section governing residential/nonresidential screening requires the
installation of a 7’-tall masonry or concrete fence along the disputed boundary, as articulated in
City Code Section 17.48.040.

The Property Owner reads this section of Code as requiring residential/nonresidential screening
including masonry or concrete fencing only where the Storage Lot directly abuts a residential zone,
and only where the fence is built directly on the property line. The boundary in question directly
abuts a public street, 400 North, with residences on the far side of the street.

The Code allows the Planning Commission to approve fencing other than masonry/concrete if it
finds that certain requisite conditions are met. Accordingly, the matter was submitted to the
Planning Commission to determine what screening material would be required. On March 28,
2023, the Planning Commission determined that it would not approve an alternate to the masonry
or concrete fence, and that the Property Owner is required to construct fencing as required by
Section 17.48.040. The record articulates a history of complaints by the residential property owners
living across the street from the lot. The neighbors allege that that the property has not been
maintained and is unsightly. The Planning Commission was aware of this history.

The Property Owner also questions whether the City may lawfully require that the entire street
frontage along 400 North be landscaped. The Code requires that a 20’ landscaped buffer be
installed and maintained along the street frontage. This will diminish the usable area of the lot by
approximately 20%.

Accordingly, the Property Owner is requesting this Advisory Opinion to determine whether the
required fencing material is masonry/concrete or may be chain link with privacy slats and whether
the City may lawfully require that 20% of the lot be landscaped.

                                              ANALYSIS

As a threshold matter, the City maintains that the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman does
not have authority to issue an Advisory Opinion on this topic because the issue was not appealed
to district court, so is now moot. Accordingly, that issue will be addressed first.



Advisory Opinion – Colts Neck / Lindon City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 27, 2023 Page 3 of 9
      I.          Request for Advisory Opinion appropriately made before final decision was
                  rendered.

The City believes the objections raised by the Property Owner are untimely because the decision
made by the Planning Commission on March 28, 2023 regarding the required fencing material was
not appealed to district court. As such, the legal issue can no longer be appealed and is therefore
moot.

The City makes legally sound arguments; however, the authority of this Office differs slightly
from that established for courts. The authority for Advisory Opinions is outlined in Utah Code
Section 13-43-205(1)(b) which stipulates that “a request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at
any time before a final decision on a land use application” has been made. In this case, the Advisory
Opinion was requested on March 31, 2023, just three days after the Planning Commission made
their determination on March 28, 2023, well before the 14-day appeal window closed.

The Advisory Opinion Request was filed within the appeal window which followed the Planning
Commission’s determination. The requirement that our Office issue an Advisory Opinion in
response to a timely request does not change, even when the issue would become moot because
judicial relief cannot affect the rights of the litigants.

As such, the issue falls within our authority and accordingly provide the following Advisory
Opinion.1

      II.         Area abutting public street must include a 20’-wide landscaped buffer and storage
                  screening fence must be set behind this buffer.

City Code requires that a visual barrier be installed along the Property boundary fronting the public
street as part of site plan approval. See generally CITY CODE §17.48. City Code requires that this
visual barrier include a landscaping strip 20’-wide along all street frontages. CITY CODE §
14.18.030. A second section of Code requires that a 7’-tall concrete or masonry fence be built along
the property line separating residential and nonresidential uses as part of the visual barrier. CITY
CODE §14.48.040. And finally, an apparently conflicting third section of Code requires a 6’-tall
chain link fence be installed as a visual barrier surrounding outdoor storage. CITY CODE
§14.18.050. Both parties agree that the Code requires a visual barrier be installed along the
property boundary fronting the public street. The dispute is over the material and height of that
required fence, its location, and whether 20’ of landscaped buffer may be required.

We first tackle whether the 20’-wide landscaped buffer may lawfully be required. The City Code
requires a 20’-wide strip starting at the back of the sidewalk be landscaped and be maintained as a
landscapped buffer. The Property Owner argues that this diminishes the usable lot area by
approximately 20% which is quite onerous and severly impacts the reasonable enjoyment of the
property.


1
  The Property Owner initially requested an Advisory Opinion regarding the requirement that curb, gutter, and other
roadway improvements be installed as a condition of the rezoning. This legislative decision was made in 2019 and
any ability to appeal those conditions has long since passed. As such, that issue is not timely for an Advisory Opinion
and has not been included in this Opinion.

Advisory Opinion – Colts Neck / Lindon City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 27, 2023 Page 4 of 9
According to City Code Section 17.48.030, “A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of each lot shall
be maintained in permanent landscaped open space” and “Unless otherwise approved by the
planning commission, a landscaped berm at least three feet (3') high and twenty feet (20') wide
shall be landscaped to meet the design requirements of Chapter 17.19 and maintained in a living,
growing condition along all public street frontages.” CITY CODE § 17.48.030(3) – (4).

We first look to the plain language of the text. The Code is unambiguous on this issue. The Code
requires each lot to maintain a permanent landscaped area at least 20’-wide unless otherwise
approved by the Planning Commission. Based on information in the record, the Planning
Commission has not waived these landscaping requirements. Therefore, the Code unambiguously
requires a 20’-wide landscaped buffer.

We next look to whether the ordinance itself is lawful. The Utah Code grants broad legislative
authority to municipalities to regulate land use, including requiring landscaping. Utah Code
Section 10-9a-102(2) specifically grants municipalities the authority to govern “open spaces” and
“uses”. This general regulatory authority over land use and development has been upheld by the
U.S. and Utah Supreme Courts. “It is established that an owner of property holds it subject to
zoning ordinances enacted pursuant to a state’s police power.” Western Land Equities v. Logan,
617 P.2d 388 (Utah 1980) quoting Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U.S. 365 (1926). The police
power has been interpreted by Utah courts to include the right to regulate aesthetics. For instance,
in Buhler v. Stone, the Utah Supreme Court found that “reasonable measures to minimize
discordant, unsightly and offensive surroundings . . . and to preserve the beauty as well as the
usefulness of the environment are within the police power.” 533 P.2d 292 (Utah 1975).

In conclusion, the City may lawfully require the Storage Lot landscaping to conform to City Code
including the requirements that a 20’-wide strip along the back of the sidewalk be landscaped and
maintained as a landscaped buffer.

      III.        A residential/nonresidential screening 7’-tall masonry or concrete fence may only
                  be required on top of the property line, not 20’ back from the property line.

We next address whether the City can require that a 7’-tall residential/nonresidential screening
concrete or masonry wall be installed as an additional visual barrier at the back of the 20’-wide
landscaped strip discussed above. The Property Owner does not dispute that a buffer fence is
required, but maintains that the Code allows for a less costly storage screening 6’-tall chain link
fence with privacy slats to be installed instead.

The Property Owner points out that City Code Section 17.48.050 governs storage and merchandise
screening. The Storage Lot is for storing merchandise and equipment and this section, on its face,
would apply. This section requires that “The storage of merchandise outside an approved building
shall be in an area approved as part of the site plan and shall be within an area enclosed with a
sight obscuring fence of at least six feet (6’) in height.” The Property Owner therefore maintains
that a 6’-tall storage screening chain link fence with privacy slats meets the Code requirements.

Conversely, the City asserts that an alternate section of Code applies. City Code Section 17.48.040
governs fencing and screening between a nonresidential development and a residential use or a
residential zone. This section requires that “A masonry or concrete fence seven feet (7’) high shall

Advisory Opinion – Colts Neck / Lindon City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 27, 2023 Page 5 of 9
be constructed and maintained along any property line between a nonresidential development and
a residential use or residential zone.”

We are asked to determine which fence material and height applies to the Storage Lot on the street-
facing side.

When interpreting a statute, the primary goal is to ascertain the legislature’s intent, the best
evidence of which is the plain language of the statute itself. Ragsdale v. Fishler, 2020 UT 56, ¶ 29.
The plain language of the statute is to be read as a whole and its provisions interpreted in harmony
with other statutes in the same chapter. Selman v. Box Elder County, 2011 UT 18, ¶ 29 (citations
omitted). Furthermore, “municipal ordinances are subject to ordinary rules of statutory
interpretation.” See Colosimo v. Gateway Cmty. Church, 2018 UT 26, ¶ 46, 424 P.3d 866. We
therefore begin with the text, “presume that the [legislative body] used each word advisedly, and
deem all omissions to be purposeful.” Id. (cleaned up). Further, “[b]ecause zoning ordinances are
in derogation of a property owner’s common-law right to unrestricted use of his or her property, .
. . provisions permitting property uses should be liberally construed in favor of the property
owner.” Ogden City Plaza Investors v. Ogden City Board of Zoning, 2022 UT App 74 (cleaned
up).

In this case, the requirement for masonry or concrete fencing applies “along any property line
between a nonresidential development and a residential use or residential zone.” CITY CODE
§17.48.040(1).




The aerial photo clipped from Google Maps above is provided for reference. The Storage Lot is
highlighted in yellow.

The parties agree that the properties to the west (CG, General Commercial, CAP office) and the
south (CG-A, General Commercial, Fencing business) are not a “residential use or residential
zone,” therefore, those property boundaries do not need to be improved with a “seven foot (7’)
masonry or concrete fence.” They can instead be buffered with a storage screening six-foot tall
chain link fence with privacy slats. The parties further agree that the property to the east (R1-20,
Residential Very Low Density) is a residential zone and therefore, the enhanced screening

Advisory Opinion – Colts Neck / Lindon City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 27, 2023 Page 6 of 9
requirements between residential and nonresidential uses, including a “seven foot (7’) masonry or
concrete fence” apply.

It is the north boundary fence which abuts the public road which is disputed. The land immediately
to the north of Property Owner’s parcel is public right-of-way not constituting part of any
subdivision or parcel. On the far side of the street are two residences which are zoned residential
(R1-20, Residential Very Low Density). The City Zoning Map indicates that the street itself is
zoned residential (R1-20, Residential Very Low Density).

The Property Owner maintains that a residential/nonresidential screening masonry or concrete
fence is only required when built directly on the boundary line of property which abuts a residential
zone. The City Code in question reads “A masonry or concrete fence seven feet (7’) high shall be
constructed and maintained along any property line between a nonresidential development and a
residential use or residential zone.” CITY CODE § 17.48.040 (emphasis added). The City is
requiring that the fence be placed 20’ from the back of sidewalk, behind the required landscaped
buffer area, therefore the fence will not be placed directly on top of the boundary line, and the
Property Owner argues, need not be 7’-tall nor masonry or concrete.

In contrast, the City recites the history of conflict between the Property Owner and the residential
neighbors to the north and maintains that the express language of City Code Section 17.48.040
“does not require the fence be built ‘on’ a property line, only ‘along’ the property line, and that
there are other places in the City where concrete fences between residential and commercial uses
were built well back from the actual property lines.”

The City Code does not define along. When otherwise not defined, “ordinance terms should be
interpreted and applied according to their commonly accepted meaning. . . “ M&S Cox Invs., LLC
v. Provo City Corp., 2007 UT App 315, ¶ 31, 169 P.3d 789. We therefore look to standard
dictionaries to define the term. Black’s Law Dictionary provides that along means “by, on, or over”
“according to the subject-matter and context.” Black’s Law Dictionary (2nd Ed.). Meriam Webster
defines along as “in a line marching the length or direction of (example: walking along the road),
also, at a point or points on (example: a house along the river). Miriam Webster Dictionary, online
edition, accessed August 29, 2023. These definitions favors the interpretation put forth by the
Property Owner, i.e. that along means on top of or running immediately adjacent to the boundary
line.

Where any amibiguity remains in the plain language definition of along, we are reminded that the
courts have given us direction in cases where there is more than one plausable interpretation of an
ordinance. “Because zoning ordinances are in derogation of a property owner’s common-law right
to unrestricted use of his or her property, . . . provisions permitting property uses should be liberally
construed in favor of the property owner.” Ogden City Plaza Investors, 2022 UT App 74 at ¶ 7
(cleaned up). Any ambiguity is interpreted in favor of the Property Owner. Therefore, for our
purposes, along is interpreted as meaning on top of or running immediately adjacent to the property
line.

We next apply this interpretation to the City Code. The Code reads “A masonry or concrete fence
seven feet (7’) high shall be constructed and maintained along any property line between a
nonresidential development and a residential use or residential zone.” CITY CODE § 17.48.040. In

Advisory Opinion – Colts Neck / Lindon City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 27, 2023 Page 7 of 9
plain language, the City may require the Property Owner to install a 7’-tall masonry or concrete
fence on top of or immediately adjacent to the property boundary. Therefore, this
residential/nonresidential screening wall may not be required 20’ back from the property line, as
is currently proposed.

The City may still require that the 6’-tall storage screening opaque fence be installed, even behind
the 20’-wide landscaped buffer. This section of City Code applies to all outdoor storage of
merchandise and equipment, and is not restricted to locations along the boundary of the property.
See CITY CODE § 17.48.050.

We therefore conclude that City Code requires only that a 6’-tall storage screening opaque fence
be installed behind the landscape buffer, as required to screen outdoor storage of merchandise.
Alternatively, the City Code requires the Property Owner to install a 7’-tall masonry or concrete
residential/nonresidential screening fence on top of the property boundary. If the fence is installed
on top of the property boundary, no landscaped buffer may be required.2

The Property Owner may choose which of the two visual buffer standards to meet. Utah Code
Section 10-9a-306(2) reads “If a land use regulation does not plainly restrict a land use application,
the land use authority shall interpret and apply the land use regulation to favor the land use
application.” In this case, the City Code does not stipulate which buffer must apply, therefore, the
Property Owner may choose to submit (or amend) an application that adheres to either standard
and be entitled to approval.

                                                   CONCLUSION

The plain language of City Code requires that a visual buffer be installed along the northern, public
street-facing side of a commercial property intended for use as a storage lot for an adjacent
business. However, application of City Code results in two possible visual buffers through
applicable fencing/landscaping standards under which the proposed commercial use could apply.

First, the City Code lawfully requires that a landscaped buffer, which is 20’-wide and begins at the
back of the sidewalk, be installed and maintained in connection with use of the storage lot. In
addition to the landscape buffer, the Code includes outdoor storage and merchandise screening
fencing standards which requires that a 6’-tall opaque fence be installed behind the buffer area.

Alternatively, the Code includes provisions for residential/nonresidential screening fence
standards which requires the Property Owner to install a 7’-tall masonry or concrete fence on top
of the property boundary to screen the commercial use from the adjoining residential zone.
However, if the 7’-tall masonry or concrete fence is installed on top of the property boundary, no
landscaped buffer may be required.



2
  Of note, when this section of City Code is read in its entirety, the section of City Code requiring a 7’-tall barrier
between commercial and residential uses/zones arguably contemplates scenarios involving only interior lot lines where
the two uses actually abut one another and not where property boundaries abut a public street. Otherwise, the
requirement that the lot frontage be improved with a 20’-wide landscaped buffer is moot. Installing a landscaped
barrier behind an opaque 7’-tall wall would not be of any benefit.

Advisory Opinion – Colts Neck / Lindon City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 27, 2023 Page 8 of 9
The Property Owner may choose to submit (or amend) a land use application depicting either (1)
a 20’-wide landscaped buffer area with a storage screening 6’-tall opaque fence at the rear of the
buffer area, or (2) a residential/nonresidential screening 7’-tall concrete/masonry wall along the
property boundary at the back of the sidewalk, with no landscaped area. A land use application
proposing either of these approaches would conform to the requirements of the applicable land use
regulations, and would therefore be entitled to approval.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Colts Neck / Lindon City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 27, 2023 Page 9 of 9
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not constitute
legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of
Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may not
reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in § 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are also
designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
