                       Advisory Opinion 288
                                 Parties: David Wright and Millcreek City
                                             Issued: June 27, 2024

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                Compliance With Land Use Regulations

                        Entitlement to Application Approval (Vested Rights)

                                        Subdivision Plat Approval


Where a substandard property was created by deed without subdivision approval,
the city’s recording of a notice of noncompliance on the property was an appropriate
action as a means of code enforcement to prevent illegal use of the property. The
city may exercise prosecutorial discretion in allowing a limited gardening use to
occur on the property without a permit, but the property owner would not be entitled
to approval for any permit on the illegal lot to conduct development activity, including
grading, clearing, and excavation, as prohibited by applicable land use regulations.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                           (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                        1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                             www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                 propertyrights@utah.gov
                             State of Utah
                             Department of Commerce
   SPENCER J. COX            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
      Governor
                             MARGARET W. BUSSE         JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON          Executive Director         Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION


         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                David Wright

         Local Government Entity:                      Millcreek City

         Applicant for Land Use Approval:              Wright Mind, LLC

         Type of Property:                             Vacant/Forestry and Recreation Zone

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                June 27, 2024

         Opinion Authored By:                          Richard B. Plehn, Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       ISSUES

              1. Did the City properly record a Notice of Noncompliance stating the property was created
                 without regard to lot requirements in applicable ordinances?
              2. May the property be put to agricultural use and is the property entitled to grading permit
                 approvals in furtherance of such a use?

                                          SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

         The subject property is a substandard lot illegally subdivided by deed that did not comply with the
         applicable County subdivision ordinances at the time of its creation, including minimum lot area
         and frontage requirements in the applicable zone.

         State law allows cities to take appropriate actions to prevent or enjoin the violation of its
         subdivision ordinance. The City’s recording of a notice of noncompliance on the property was an
         appropriate action as it imparted record notice of the violation as a means of code enforcement to
         prevent the illegal use of the property. While cities have prosecutorial discretion in enforcing land
         use violations, state law would not allow a city to approve any submitted application for a land use
         permit on an illegal lot where the proposal fails to conform to the requirements of applicable land
         use regulations in any regard, including a zone’s minimum lot size requirements for permitted uses.
The City has concluded that it does not object to a limited gardening use on the Subject Property
and that it will not require a land use approval for this activity. This is appropriate. If the property
owner seeks a permit to conduct development activity, defined to include grading, clearing, and
excavation, state law would require the City to follow the mandatory provisions of the City’s land
use regulations. In this case, the current regulations governing the parcel would prohibit
development activity on the parcel, and the permit would not be entitled to approval.

                                                       EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

       1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by David Wright, on behalf of Wright Mind
          LLC, received May 1, 2023.
       2. Submission from John Brems, City Attorney for Millcreek, received May 1, 2023.
       3. Email from David Wright, received May 3, 2023.
       4. Call with John Brems and Francis Lilly on February 15, 2024.
       5. Call with David Wright on March 7, 2024.
       6. Meeting with John Brems and Francis Lilly on April 17, 2024.
       7. Call with David Wright on May 24, 2024.

                                                      BACKGROUND

Wright Mind, LLC (Wright), owns a 0.27-acre parcel of property (“Subject Property”) at 4661 S
Ledgemont Drive, in Millcreek, and is part of the Forest Residential (FR-5) zone and Foothills and
Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ). The Subject Property fronts on a residential street, but is
undeveloped, intensely sloped, and—on its side of the street—neighbored by a larger unsubdivided
parcel and other subdivided residential lots.

The Subject Property was once part of a larger subdivision remnant of approximately a little over
8 acres (“Parent Parcel”). However, on December 7, 2004, the owner of this Parent Parcel deeded
nearly all of the property, 8.07 acres, to a lot owner in one of the adjoining subdivisions as
additional acreage to that lot, but in doing so, withheld the approximately 10,0001 square foot
Subject Property with the intention of future development. A June 1, 2010 letter from the former
owner of the Parent Parcel states that “[w]hen we sold the property between Jupiter and Ledgemont
. . . we held out of the sale a piece that had frontage on Ledgemont. Our reasoning for holding this
property was because we felt there was a buildable area along the frontage of Ledgemont.”

At the time of the conveyance that resulted in the creation of the Subject Property, the property
was in the County’s FR-5 zone, with the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone. This zone had a 5-
acre minimum lot size requirement for any subdivision of land, and all permitted uses in the zone
were required to comply with all applicable requirements “including those relating to site and lot
dimensions.” SALT LAKE COUNTY ORDINANCES § 19.12.020 (2001).



1
    Recognized by the parties to be the 0.27-acre Wright parcel, though the acres to sq. ft conversion isn’t exact.

Advisory Opinion – Wright Mind LLC / Millcreek City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 27, 2024 Page 2 of 7
In 2011, the Salt Lake County Zoning Administrator issued a letter pertaining to history of the
Parent Parcel, including the conveyance that created the Subject Property. The purpose of this letter
was to address the allowed use of the 8.07 acres of the Parent Parcel that had been deeded as
additional lot acreage. The Zoning administrator noted that as it had remained separate from the
lot to which it was deeded as additional acreage, it concluded that “[u]n-subdivided land that is not
combined with a subdivided lot may be used for agricultural purposes, but is subject to the
subdivision platting requirements if it is converted to any other kind of use (such as residential
development).”

Millcreek City later incorporated in 2017, and adopted all existing Salt Lake County zoning
ordinances, including the FR-5 zoning district and the FCOZ that applied to the Subject Property.

The City states that, in approximately 2020, in response to the Subject Property being listed for
sale and several inquiries to the City about the potential for development, the City recorded a
Notice of Noncompliance against the Subject Property to notify potential buyers that the property
was not eligible for development.

The Notice of Noncompliance, dated September 29, 2020 and recorded the next day, states as
follows:

            Notice is hereby given that the property located at 4661 South Ledgemont Drive is
            not in compliance with Millcreek Ordinances. Specifically, the parcel was created
            in 2004 without regard to the subdivision design standards established in
            §18.08.010, the minimum lot area and frontage requirements in the FR-5 zone, as
            established in §19.12.040 of the Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances, and the
            Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone requirements found in §18.20.025 and
            Chapter 19.72 of the Salt Lake County Ordinances. These ordinances were in force
            at the time of the creation of the lot, were subsequently adopted by Millcreek upon
            its incorporation in 2017, and remain in force as of the recording of this notice.

Wright purchased the Subject Property in August of 2021 subject to the recorded Notice of
Noncompliance. The following month, Wright applied for and was granted by the City an
Excavation Permit dated September 14, 2021, with the project description as “We will be flattening
the dirt back from the gutter edge on our side of the property 5’.”

At some point after issuing the permit, the City appeared to have reversed course and informed
Wright that no site grading or disturbance of the property could be pursued, including that some
initial work of planting trees and plants that had already been performed should be undone.

Wright claims that he has not petitioned to build on the property, rather, his plans for the property
include some grading and terracing the property to be used as a private garden. The City has
responded that it does not object to Wright gardening on the property without the need for land use
approval, as the same is routinely enjoyed by other property owners in FCOZ without seeking
approval. However, the City clarifies that whereas it assumes Wright intends for some type of
development activity that requires a permit, the City would intend to review the proposal for
compliance with the requirements of the FCOZ ordinance.

Advisory Opinion – Wright Mind LLC / Millcreek City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 27, 2024 Page 3 of 7
Wright has requested this Advisory Opinion to determine whether such use of the property is
permitted, whether it is entitled to grading permits in furtherance of such a use, whether the City
properly recorded the Notice of Noncompliance, and what effect the recorded notice has on its
property.

                                                      ANALYSIS

State law requires all subdivisions of land to be approved by the applicable land use authority in
the relevant jurisdiction. See, UTAH CODE § 17-27a-603(2).2 However, this does not apply if the
division is “exempt under Section 17-27a-605 or excluded from the definition of subdivision under
Section 17-27a-103.” Id. These same requirements and exceptions, generally, were found in Salt
Lake County’s Subdivision Ordinance at the time of the Subject Property’s 2004 deed. See, SALT
LAKE COUNTY ORDINANCES §18.040.260 (1998).

We have been asked to opine on whether the City acted lawfully in recording a notice of
noncompliance on the Subject Property alleging that the property was created as an illegal division
of land, or whether the property may be legally put to agricultural use and may otherwise be
entitled to certain grading permits in furtherance of that use.

      I.          The Subject Property Was Created by an Illegal Subdivision of Land, and the
                  City’s Recorded Notice of Noncompliance was a Lawful Way to Enjoin Further
                  Violations of its Land Use Regulations

Section 17-27a-103 excludes from the definition of “subdivision” certain divisions of land by deed
in unincorporated county jurisdictions, including the “bona fide division or partition of agricultural
land for agricultural purposes.” See, UTAH CODE § 17-27a-103(73)(c)(i).

The County’s 2011 letter had concluded that the 8.07 deeded acres that resulted in creating the
Subject Property could be used for agricultural purposes but would need to meet subdivision
standards if converted to any other use. The County based its conclusion by citing Section 17-27a-
605(2) of the Utah Code. However, under that section, to be considered a bona fide division of
agricultural land, the parcel must (1) be land in agricultural use as defined in Section 59-2-502,3
(2) meet the minimum size requirement of applicable land use ordinances, and (3) not used for any
nonagricultural purposes now or in the future. Id. § 17-27a-605(2). Under those circumstances,
land divided by deed may continue as agricultural use, but any subsequent proposed change in use
requires that the property and proposal satisfy the current applicable zoning requirements of the
applicable zoning district.

We have been asked to opine on whether the County’s 2011 letter applies to the Subject Property
and means that the property may be approved for a proposed agricultural use. We conclude that

2
  While current citations are used, the general requirement that all subdivisions of land are subject to approval by the
applicable land use authority has been found in law since well before the time of the land divisions at issue here.
3
  “Land in agricultural use” means “land devoted to the raising of useful plants and animals with a reasonable
expectation of profit . . . [or] “land devoted to and meeting the requirements and qualifications for payments or other
compensation under a crop-land retirement program with an agency of the state or federal government.”

Advisory Opinion – Wright Mind LLC / Millcreek City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 27, 2024 Page 4 of 7
the letter does not apply to the Subject Property, or that if it did, does not correctly conclude that
the Subject Property, or even the 8.07 acres that had been the subject of the deed, may be legally
put to agricultural use.

First, the 2004 deed of the Parent Parcel does not meet the subdivision definition’s exclusion for
bona fide divisions for agricultural purposes. The evidence in the record reflects that the purpose
of the 2004 deed was to convey 8.07 acres to a nearby lot owner as additional acreage to a
residential lot, and also to withhold the remaining 0.27-acre Subject Property for purposes of future
development. Neither of these qualifies as an agricultural purpose, and therefore the conveyance
is considered a subdivision as it was a division of land “for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, for offer, sale, lease, or development.” Id. § 17-27a-103(73)(a).

Second, the 2004 deed was also not exempted from platting requirements for agricultural divisions
under Section 605(2) as the Parent Parcel was unsubdivided vacant acreage at the time of deed,
not being put to any active use, and therefore was not “land in agricultural use” at the time of the
conveyance. Moreover, while the 8.07 acres that was conveyed away in the deed might have, itself,
met the 5-acre “minimum size requirement” of the applicable FR-5 zone, the deed also resulted in
the creation of the 0.27 acre Subject Property, which does not meet the zone’s minimum size
requirement.

As the 2004 deed was not excluded from the definition of a subdivision and was not exempted
from platting requirements, the resulting division of land was an illegal subdivision that violated
state law. See, id. § 17-27a-611(1)(a)-(b). Moreover, by creating the Subject Property that did not
conform with minimum lot size for the purpose of future development, the 2004 deed also violated
Salt Lake County ordinances at the time, which provided that “[n]o parcel of land which has less
than the minimum width and area requirements for the zone in which it is located may be cut off
from a large parcel of land for the purpose, immediate or future, of building or development as a
lot, except by permit of the board of adjustment.” SALT LAKE COUNTY ORDINANCES § 19.76.090
(2001).

Utah law gives certain remedies to cities and counties to take action to require the property to
conform to state or local subdivision requirements, which includes “an injunction or any other
appropriate action or proceeding to prevent or enjoin the violation.” See, UTAH CODE §§ 17-27a-
611(2)(a)-(c) (for counties), 10-9a-611(2)(a)-(b) (for municipalities).

We have been asked to opine on whether the City’s Notice of Noncompliance was properly
recorded against the property. One purpose in recording documents is to impart notice to all
persons of their contents. See, id. § 57-3-102. While not explicitly stated in state code at the time,
state law was recently amended to clarify that a city “may submit to a county recorder’s office for
recording . . . a document related to . . . code enforcement. Id. §10-9a-532(2)(e).4 As discussed,
the 2004 deed that created the new acreage parcel and the Subject Property remainder was in
violation of state law and local ordinance. The City’s recording the Notice of Noncompliance
stating that the Subject Property parcel had been created without regard to the minimum lot area
and frontage requirements in the FR-5 zone and FCOZ overlay did not, by its terms, create or
impose any kind of restriction on use or development that did not already exist, but merely
4
    Amended by Chapter 415, 2024 General Session.

Advisory Opinion – Wright Mind LLC / Millcreek City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 27, 2024 Page 5 of 7
imparted record notice of the violation. The recorded notice therefore is an action consistent with
Section 10-9a-611(2) as an acceptable way to prevent or enjoin further violation of the law in the
property’s use.

      II.         The City May Choose Not to Enforce a Code Violation for a Gardening Use
                  Undertaken Without Development Approval, But May Not Approve Applications
                  for Permits that Do Not Comply with Land Use Ordinances.

Just as a city has available remedies to enjoin violations, a city also generally enjoys discretion in
how and when to enforce violations of its ordinances. See, Heckler v. Chaney, 470 U.S. 821, 831,
84 L. Ed. 2d 714, 105 S. Ct. 1649 (1985) (“decision not to prosecute or enforce, whether through
civil or criminal process, is a decision generally committed to an agency’s absolute discretion”).
Nevertheless, in considering any land use application submitted by a property owner seeking
approval of a land use permit,5 a municipality “is bound by the terms and standards of applicable
land use regulations and shall comply with mandatory provisions of those regulations,” UTAH
CODE §10-9a-509(2), and state law requires the municipality’s land use authority to “apply the
plain language of [its] land use regulations.” Id. §10-9a-306(1).

In this matter, despite the recorded notice of noncompliance, the City has conceded that it does not
object to Wright gardening on the property without the need for land use approval, as the same is
routinely enjoyed by other property owners in FCOZ without seeking approval. However, the City
clarifies that whereas it assumes Wright intends for some type of development activity that requires
a permit, the City would intend to review the proposal for compliance with the requirements of the
FCOZ ordinance.

Under the FCOZ ordinance, all development activity is subject to an application process for review
and approval, and development is defined to include “all land disturbance activities such as
grading, clearing, and excavation.” MILLCREEK ZONING CODE (MKZ) §§ 19.72.020(B), 19.72.030.
The FCOZ further provides that all development must comply with the standards of the underlying
zone. Id. § 19.72.040. The FR-5 zone provides that all permitted uses in the zone must also comply
with all applicable requirements “including those relating to site and lot dimensions.” Id. §
19.12.010.

While the City has discretion in choosing whether to pursue enforcement of a violation by any
active gardening use on the property, because the Subject Property is an illegal lot that does not
conform with the FR-5 zone’s 5-acre minimum lot area requirement and other applicable land use
regulations, the City may not affirmatively approve a submitted application for a land use permit
necessary for development activity in furtherance of such a use.6


5
  See definitions of “land use applicant,” “land use application,” and “land use permit.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-103.
6
  Since the filing of this advisory opinion request, the City has since rezoned repealed all of its FR zones, and rezoned
all properties in the FR districts to a new “Forest Recreation Estates” (FRE) zone. See, Ord. 24-01, enacted February
12, 2024. While this opinion references the now-appealed FR-5 zoning standards, the analysis and outcome of the
opinion are unchanged in reference to the property’s current zoning – that is, the City has prosecutorial discretion as
to whether to take any enforcement action on the current use of the property as a violation of the City’s ordinances,
but whereas the Subject Property is an illegal lot that cannot conform to applicable regulations, a land use application
submitted for a land use permit on the property is not entitled to approval.

Advisory Opinion – Wright Mind LLC / Millcreek City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 27, 2024 Page 6 of 7
                                                      CONCLUSION

Because the Subject Property was the result of an illegal subdivision that did not conform to
applicable subdivision standards including minimum lot size, the City acted lawfully in recording
the notice of noncompliance detailing the violation. While the City has prosecutorial discretion
whether to enforce a code violation regarding any current use of the property, and may
appropriately allow incidental gardening on the land, the City, under the current land use
regulations governing the property, may not affirmatively approve a land use application seeking
a land use permit as any proposed development of the property would not comply with the
minimum lot requirements for allowed uses in the applicable zone.



Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Wright Mind LLC / Millcreek City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 27, 2024 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based
on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of the author’s
understanding of the relevant law, the author does not represent anyone involved in this
matter. Anyone with an interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the
advice of his or her own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement
of how to protect or advance his or her interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty and consequential damages may also be available if the court finds that the opposing
party—if either a land use applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally
violated the law governing that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are
also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
