                     Advisory Opinion #213
                                Parties: Bonnie Timmerman, Virgin Town
                                          Issued: July 30, 2019

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                      Conditional Use Applications

The Town approved the applicant’s conditional use permit to operate an RV park and
campground in reliance on a zoning designation enacted by Town Ordinance 2018-9. As
a result of a referendum vote, that ordinance was passed contrary to another town
ordinance, and thus in violation of law. While the enactment of the ordinance was never
timely appealed, the approval of applicant’s conditional use permit was timely appealed.
Under Utah law, an affected party that timely brings a claim challenging the approval of a
conditional use permit may raise a challenge to the legality of the ordinance itself. Since
the Town’s decision to approve applicant’s conditional use permit was based on an
illegal ordinance, a claim brought in district court challenging the permit’s approval would
survive.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI     BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director    Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor



                                             ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:               Bonnie Timmerman

        Local Government Entity:                     Virgin Town

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:             Zion Sunset Resort, LLC

        Type of Property:                            Agricultural/Resort

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:               July 30, 2019

        Opinion Authored By:                         Jordan S. Cullimore
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                      ISSUE

        Did Virgin Town lawfully approve a conditional use permit application submitted by Zion Sunset
        Resort, LLC to operate an RV Park and Campground on property located within the Town?

                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        Virgin Town approved Zion Sunset Resort’s conditional use permit to operate an RV park and
        campground in reliance on a zoning designation enacted by Town Ordinance 2018-9. As a result
        of a referendum vote, that ordinance was passed contrary to another town ordinance, and thus in
        violation of law. While the enactment of the ordinance was never timely appealed, the approval
        of Zion Sunset Resort’s conditional use permit was timely appealed. Under Utah law, an affected
        party that timely brings a claim challenging the approval of a conditional use permit may raise a
        challenge to the legality of the ordinance itself. Since the Town’s decision to approve Zion
        Sunset Resort’s conditional use permit was based on an illegal ordinance, a claim brought in
        district court challenging the permit’s approval would survive.

                                                    REVIEW
        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
        administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Bonnie Timmerman on April 10, 2019. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to John Grow, Mayor for Virgin Town, on April
11, 2019.

                                                   EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion submitted by Bonnie Timmerman on April 10, 2019.
     2. Email response submitted by Heath H. Snow, Attorney for Virgin Town, on April 17,
        2019.
     3. Email with additional information, submitted by Bonnie Timmerman on April 18, 2019.
     4. Reply submitted by Heath H. Snow, Attorney for Virgin Town, on May 15, 2019.
     5. Response submitted by Bonnie Timmerman on May 29, 2019.
     6. Response submitted by Heath H. Snow, Attorney for Virgin Town, on June 4, 2019.
     7. Response submitted by Bonnie Timmerman on June 7, 2019.

                                                  BACKGROUND
On February 28, 2018, the Virgin Town Council passed Virgin Ordinance 2018-07, expanding
the “geographic eligibility area” of the Highway Resort Zone (HR Zone) to include property
owned by Zion Sunset Resort, LLC (ZSR). This was necessary because, under the Virgin Town
Code, the HR Zone is subject to a location-based restriction. The Town Council may not include
land in the HR Zoning District unless the land is located within the geographic eligibility area
described in the Town Code. ZSR sought to request application of the HR Zone to its property
(ZSR Property), but in order for that to be possible, the Town Council needed to first exercise it
legislative authority to expand the HR Zone’s geographic eligibility area to include the ZSR
Property.

At the same February 28, 2018 meeting, the Town Council passed Virgin Ordinance 2018-9. This
ordinance approved a rezone request, submitted by ZSR, to change the zoning designation of the
ZSR property from Rural Agricultural (RA Zone) to Highway Resort (HR Zone), in light of the
prior expansion of the HR Zone’s geographic eligibility area.

On March 5, 2018, eligible sponsors submitted to Virgin Town (Town) referendum petitions on
Ordinance 2018-7 and Ordinance 2018-9. These petitions satisfied all the requirements to be
placed before the electorate of the Town in the form of Proposition 20 (Ordinance 2018-7), and
Proposition 21 (Ordinance 2018-9). This was done on November 6, 2018, during the Town’s
general election. Ultimately, the voters rejected Ordinance 2018-7, which would have expanded

Advisory Opinion – Bonnie Timmerman/Virgin Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 30, 2019     Page 2 of 6
the Highway Resort Zone’s (HR Zone) geographic eligibility area to include the ZSR Property,
but accepted Ordinance 2018-9, applying the HR Zone to the ZSR Property.

In light of this result, the Town concluded that “the voters of the Town spoke via populous vote
and stated that they did not want to see property south of SR-9 and north of the Virgin be eligible
to seek rezonings to the HR Zone from one end of Town to the other (Ordinance 2018-7
rejection), yet they did say that they approved having the [ZSR Property] rezoned from RA to
HR (Ordinance 2018-9 acceptance).”

In accordance with this conclusion, the Town, on March 27, 2019, approved a conditional use
permit, submitted by ZSR, to construct and operate an RV Park and Campground on the ZSR
Property, on the basis that the HR Zone governed the ZSR Property and allowed the use. Bonnie
Timmerman (Timmerman) timely appealed this approval and submitted an Advisory Opinion
request to this Office. In her Request for Advisory Opinion, Timmerman asserts that Ordinance
2018-9, applying the HR Zone to the ZSR Property, is invalid, regardless of the fact that the
Virgin Town voters accepted the referendum on the ordinance, because Ordinance 2018-9 was
contingent upon Ordinance 2018-7 passing, which it did not because the voters rejected it via
referendum. Since Ordinance 2018-7, expanding the geographic eligibility area of the HR Zone,
failed, Timmerman argues the Town lacked authority to enact Ordinance 2018-9, whether by
Council action or voter approval.

The Town, on the other hand, contends that because the two ordinances were considered under
two separate propositions, they each stand alone, and one cannot be contingent upon the other.
The Town further argues that the people may legislate without limitation on their authority,
which they did when they accepted Ordinance 2018-9 and applied the HR Zone to the ZSR
Property, irrespective of the outcome of the referendum on Ordinance 2018-7.

                                                  ANALYSIS
Typically, it is not difficult to determine which of a town’s various zoning districts applies to a
parcel of land in the town when a property owner applies for a land use permit. Normally, the
property owner may simply refer to the town’s current official zoning map to locate the property
and identify the applicable zoning designation. The present situation is not so straightforward
because both ordinances became subjects of referendum petitions.

I.         The Referendum Power

Under Section 1(2)(b)(ii) of Article 6 of the Utah Constitution, the legal voters of a town may
“require any…ordinance passed by the [town council] to be submitted to the voters thereof, as
provided by statute, before the law or ordinance may take effect” (emphasis added). The power
of an electorate to exercise legislative authority within a jurisdiction and submit a local law to
popular vote is an inherent power reserved by the people in the Utah Constitution. See Krejci v.
City of Saratoga Springs, 2013 UT 74 ¶ 24, 322 P.3d 662.

The Virgin Town electorate exercised this power when it rejected Ordinance 2018-7, but
accepted Ordinance 2018-9. The effect of these decisions was to reject the expansion of the HR

Advisory Opinion – Bonnie Timmerman/Virgin Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 30, 2019     Page 3 of 6
Zone’s geographic eligibility area to include the ZSR Property, but to nonetheless rezone the
ZSR Property to the HR Zone.

II.        Application of Ordinance 2018-9 to the Zion Sunset Resort Conditional Use Permit

As indicated above, the Town argues that the two ordinances stand alone and that the rejection of
Ordinance 2018-7 does not prevent the enactment of 2018-9 because the town voters, in contrast
to the limited power held by a town council, have unrestricted discretion to enact any ordinance,
regardless of a law stating otherwise. This simply is not the case. No entity has authority to
violate law. Local law, in the form of local ordinances, sets limitations on the exercise of local
legislative authority. If local law prohibits an action, the legislative body, whether it be a town
council or the electorate via initiative or referendum, must comply with the law. See UTAH CODE
§ 10-9a-509(2) (“A municipality is bound by the terms and standards of applicable land use
regulations and shall comply with mandatory provisions of those regulations.”). If the local
legislative authority determines that a law does not serve the public interest, it may change the
law through the formal legislative processes, but it may not simply disregard or ignore the law,
even if the legislative body is the electorate exercising its authority via the referendum process.

Timmerman asserts that since the town’s electorate rejected Ordinance 2018-7 the voters then
lacked authority to enact Ordinance 2018-9 since the ZSR property wasn’t eligible for rezone to
the HR Zone under the Town Code. This position is correct. The decision made by the Town’s
voters to reject Ordinance 2018-7 but approve Ordinance 2018-9, effectively approving the
rezone request but not expanding the eligibility area, was a violation of the Town’s ordinances.
The Town Code plainly prohibits applying the HR Zone to a property unless the property is
located within the HR Zone’s geographic eligibility area.

The implications of the voters’ decision to accept one and reject the other are best illustrated by
considering what would have happened had the Town Council done this itself, irrespective of the
electorate’s referendum vote. Had the Town Council approved the zone change but rejected the
expansion, the Town would have illegally adopted a zoning ordinance. The zone change would
violate the Town’s own ordinances requiring expansion of the eligibility area.

We conclude that the result of a referendum accepting a town council’s enactment of an
ordinance has the same effect as if the town council had enacted the ordinance. 1 The Town,
through its citizens’ vote, violated its own ordinances by approving a zone change outside of the
geographic eligibility area of the HR Zone.

There are, however, procedural considerations related to timeliness. A violation such as the one
just described does not necessarily void the zoning ordinance, but leaves it subject to a legal
challenge. See UTAH CODE 10-9a-801(3)(a)(i) (explaining that a land use regulation must be
presumed to be valid if it was enacted in accordance with State law). If no legal challenge comes
1
 The Town, citing Carter v. Lehi City, 2012 UT 2, 269 P.3d 141, argues that the electorate’s authority to legislate is
broader and less restricted than a town council’s authority to legislate. We distinguish Carter from this case to the
extent that Carter addresses the electorate’s initiative power, which is the electorate’s power to pass a law of its own
accord, where this case involves the electorate’s referendum power, which is the power to accept or reject a law
passed by the town council. Thus because the voters are weighing in on the Town’s action, the effect is as if the
Town had done the action itself.
Advisory Opinion – Bonnie Timmerman/Virgin Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 30, 2019     Page 4 of 6
within the proscribed appeal period, the decision will stand. See UTAH CODE 10-9a-801(5) (“...a
challenge to the enactment of a land use regulation or general plan may not be filed with the
district court more than 30 days after the enactment.”).

In the present case, Ordinance 2018-9 was subject to challenge when it officially went into effect
on November 28, 2018, after the result of the referendum was formalized. However, no one
timely appealed Ordinance 2018-9 on the basis that it violated applicable law. Consequently, the
law became applicable and unappealable after the 30 day appeal window lapsed. It would appear
that the City contemplated this when it “allowed all appeal periods to run” before approving
ZSR’s conditional use permit to construct and operate an RV Park and Campground on March
27, 2019.

Nevertheless, this does not end the analysis. The law allows another means through which an
affected party may challenge an illegal ordinance, regardless of when the ordinance went into
effect. Utah law provides that an affected party may challenge the legality of an ordinance at the
time a land use decision, such as the approval of a conditional use permit, is made in reliance on
the subject ordinance. See Gilmore v. Summit County, 2010 UT 69, 246 P.3d 102.

In Gilmore v. Summit County, the Utah Supreme Court held that once a party has satisfied the
Land Use Development and Management Act’s (LUDMA) jurisdictional requirements to bring a
claim challenging the legality of a land use decision, the party bringing the claim “may raise any
and all claims relating to the alleged arbitrary, capricious, or illegal nature” of the decision that
adversely affects the party’s interests. Gilmore v. Summit County, 2010 UT 69, ¶ 26, 246 P.3d
102 (emphasis added).

In Gilmore, an affected party failed to challenge the constitutionality of an ordinance within 30
days of the ordinance’s enactment. Several years after the enactment of the ordinance, the
affected party sought approval of a development application that was subject to the ordinance.
The local government involved in the case asserted that the ordinance was immune from
challenge because its enactment was never timely appealed. Nevertheless, the Court determined
that, as stated above, as long as the affected party satisfied jurisdictional requirements to bring a
claim, the party could raise any and all claims related to the decision’s asserted illegality.

In Gilmore, the affected party claimed the ordinance on which the decision was based was illegal
due to constitutionality. Here Timmerman claims that the decision to approve ZSR’s CUP was
illegal because the ordinance on which the decision was based was passed in violation of the
Town’s ordinances. Since Timmerman is correct that Ordinance 2018-9 was passed in violation
of the Virgin Town Code, a claim2 asserting as much in Court would survive and could prevail
since the RA Zone does not permit RV parks or campgrounds.




2
  The submitted materials do not present the needed information to determine whether Timmerman, in this case, is
an adversely affected party that can meet the jurisdictional requirements for bringing a challenge in district court. If
she is not an affected party, then she likely would not prevail on a challenge that the decision was based on an illegal
ordinance.
Advisory Opinion – Bonnie Timmerman/Virgin Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 30, 2019     Page 5 of 6
                                                  CONCLUSION
The Town approved ZSR’s conditional use permit to operate an RV park and campground in
reliance on a zoning designation enacted by Town Ordinance 2018-9. As a result of a referendum
vote, that ordinance was passed contrary to another town ordinance, and thus in violation of law.
While the enactment of the ordinance was never timely appealed, the approval of ZSR’s
conditional use permit was timely appealed. Under Utah law, an affected party that timely brings
a claim challenging the approval of a conditional use permit may raise a challenge to the legality
of the ordinance itself. Since the Town’s decision to approve ZSR’s conditional use permit was
based on an illegal ordinance, a claim brought in district court challenging the permit’s approval
would survive.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Bonnie Timmerman/Virgin Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 30, 2019     Page 6 of 6
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                             Mayor Matthew Spendlove
                             114 South Mill St.
                             PO Box 790008
                             Virgin, Utah 84779

On this 30th day of June 2019, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
