                       Advisory Opinion 239
                               Parties: Harbut & Sawyer / Big Water Town
                                              Issued: May 5, 2021

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                 Compelling, Countervailing Interests

                                Compliance With Land Use Ordinances

                                       Interpretation of Ordinances


The meaning of “subdivision” under Utah Code and local ordinance does not refer to any land
division, but to the recorded division of land approved pursuant to a regulatory scheme. Big Water
Town’s ordinances prohibit consolidating subdivided lots. Small tracts of once-public land that
were initially platted and divided by the US government to convey to private ownership under a
federal homesteading act are not considered to be subdivided lots for purposes of parcel joinder.

Municipalities must comply with the mandatory provisions of its land use ordinances. A dispute
over private easement rights does not generally speak to an application’s compliance with
applicable land use regulations, and the municipality should approve a compliant application if not
contrary to law, while leaving disputes over private rights to the courts to resolve. However, a
deprivation of private property rights resulting from a land use approval may, in certain cases, be
properly considered a compelling, countervailing public interest that could justify denial of a
compliant application until a court or the involved parties resolve any inherent takings concerns.
While third parties asserted an easement interest in the subject property and alleged taking
concerns with a planned unit development, the site plan did not propose any infringement on the
purported easement, and the Town’s approval without regard to the easement claim was proper.

                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                           (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                        1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                             www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                 propertyrights@utah.gov
                             State of Utah
                             Department of Commerce
   SPENCER J. COX            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
      Governor
                             MARGARET W. BUSSE        JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON          Executive Director        Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION


         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                Ronald E. Harbut and Tom Sawyer

         Local Government Entity:                      Big Water Town

         Applicant for Land Use Approval:              Michael and Robin Crowther

         Type of Property:                             Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                May 5, 2021

         Opinion Authored By:                          Richard B. Plehn, Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       ISSUE

              1. Did the Town’s approval of a joinder of land tracts originally issued together as US land
                 patents violate the Town’s ordinances that prohibit consolidating subdivided lots?
              2. May the Town approve a development proposal where a third party has asserted that the
                 approval would interfere with a private easement interest in the subject property?

                                          SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

         Tracts of land are not considered to be a subdivision under state law or local ordinance simply by
         virtue of having originated as issued land patents of once-public lands. Therefore, a provision of
         the Town’s ordinances prohibiting the consolidation of subdivided lots in an existing subdivision
         did not prohibit approval of the application for joinder of tracts deriving from BLM land patents.

         Regarding the proposed development, municipalities are bound by, and must comply with, the
         mandatory provisions of its land use ordinances. A dispute over private easement rights does not
         generally speak to an application’s compliance with applicable land use regulations. A
         municipality’s land use authority should approve compliant applications if there is sufficient
         information to find that the municipality’s approval is not contrary to law, while leaving disputes
         over private rights to the courts to resolve.
However, even a complete application that complies with applicable standards is not entitled to
approval if the land use authority formally finds that a compelling, countervailing public interest
would be jeopardized by approving the application. The potential deprivation of an individual’s
fundamental property rights as a result of a land use approval may, in certain cases, be properly
considered a compelling, countervailing public interest that could justify denial of a development
application until a court or the involved parties resolve any takings concerns inherent in approval.

Here, third parties assert private easement rights over the subject property and raised takings
concerns in opposition to the Town’s approval of a residential subdivision. However, the
subdivision plans actually approved by the Town do not appear to alter or restrict those purported
rights in any way. The Town concluded that the proposed development presented no takings issues,
and moved forward with approval of the application. The Town’s action to approve without regard
to the asserted private claims was not improper.

                                                      REVIEW

A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Title 13, Chapter 43, Section
205 of the Utah Code. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty
to exhaust administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a
land use application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue.
It is hoped that this can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral
forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end
of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Ronald E. Harbut on November 16, 2020,
and later joined by Tom Sawyer on November 25, 2020. A copy of the request was sent via certified
mail to Jennifer Johnson, Municipal Clerk for Big Water Town, 60 North Aaron Burr, Big Water,
Utah 84741, on December 1, 2020.

                                                      EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Supplemental Arguments and Documents submitted by Ronald E. Harbut, received January
        15 and January 19, 2021.
     2. Letter from attorney Joseph M. Chambers re: Opinion Regarding Advisory Opinion
        Request, submitted by Ronald E. Harbut, dated February 19, 2021.
     3. Letter re: Lone Rock Views at Lake Powell Subdivision, submitted by David W. Hunter,
        attorney for Michael & Robin Crowther, dated March 16, 2021.
     4. Letter from Joseph M. Chambers in response to March 16, 2021 David Hunter letter, dated
        March 22, 2021.
     5. Letter from attorney Scott F. Garrett on behalf of concerned citizens of Big Water to Mayor
        David Schmuker dated January 22, 2021.


Advisory Opinion – Harbut & Sawyer / Big Water Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 5, 2021 Page 2 of 10
     6. Memorandum re: Big Water Town’s Legal Position, submitted by Justin Wayment, counsel
           for Big Water, dated April 21, 2021.


                                                      BACKGROUND

In the Town of Big Water, just off of state highway 89, sits a group of nine adjacent tracts of vacant
land of similar size (roughly 3 acres each), labeled as parcels B-24-75 through B-24-83,1 illustrated
as follows:




1
 As depicted in the following illustration, there are actually 10 parcels, as lot B-24-78 appears to have subdivided off
a one-acre portion now labeled B-24-78A.

Advisory Opinion – Harbut & Sawyer / Big Water Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 5, 2021 Page 3 of 10
Once public land, the area comprising the above-illustrated properties was internally surveyed and
platted for the defined tracts by the Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”) in 1958 and transferred
from the Federal Government to private ownership through land patents issued in 1959 pursuant
to the Small Tract Act of 1938. Each land patent is described as “subject to a right-of-way not
exceeding 33 feet in width, for roadway and public utility purposes” along specified boundaries of
each tract that, when read together, depict a 66-foot right-of-way originating off highway 89 and
running through the nine tracts along certain of their respective shared boundaries, as shown in the
above illustration above by dotted lines.

Michael & Robin Crowther (“the Crowthers”) own five of the nine tracts, Lots 79 through 83, and
approached the Town with plans to develop a residential subdivision called “Lone Rock Views at
Lake Powell”. Tom Sawyer and Ronald Harbut (“the Neighbors”) own Lots 76 and 77,
respectively, in the southwest end of the grid. These tracts are both otherwise landlocked but for
the right-of-way described in the land patents across the Crowther-owned tracts. The Neighbors
argue that the rights-of-way referenced in the US land patents constitute a dedication of a public
right-of-way, as well as a reservation of private easement rights for the surrounding lot owners.

The Crowthers applied to the Town for a lot consolidation/parcel joinder to combine the five tracts
they own in anticipation of further subdividing the resulting consolidated property into several
townhomes. The Town approved the lot consolidation/parcel joinder on April 5, 2021. As for the
Lone Rock Views subdivision, the initial site plan submitted depicted three rows of townhomes,
with the middle row sitting on top of the right-of-way described in the land patents, and proposed
relocating that portion of right-of-way to the western boundaries of lots 79 and 80 to service the
other tracts, and adding some private roads. This application was subsequently withdrawn, and a
new design was submitted, and subsequently approved on April 5, 2021, which acknowledges the
land patents’ described rights-of-way in their entirety, and instead depicts two rows of townhomes
on either side of the patent right-of-way running NE/SW, while half the width of the 66’ NW/SE
patent right-of-way on the Crowther side will be improved along the shared boundaries of lots 78
and 79, connecting with new 33’ private roads.

The Neighbors oppose the lot consolidation and proposed subdivision and road plan, alleging that
the land patents constitute a subdivision which cannot be further subdivided under the Town’s
ordinances. Further, citing the Crowthers’ initial site plan, the Neighbors express concern with the
approved plan to only improve half the width of certain portions of the patent rights-of-way, fearing
that the Town may simply vacate the remaining unimproved portions of the rights-of-way in the
future, which would then pave the way for the Crowthers to resurrect the original site plan. The
Neighbors argue that any action by the Town accepting a plat that does not respect all of the current
patented rights-of-way constitutes a taking of their property interests in a private easement.

                                                      ANALYSIS

     I.          History of Private Land Ownership in Utah and the Town of Big Water

In way of a brief history, the United States government acquired territory including what now
constitutes the State of Utah from Mexico with the signing of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo in
February 1848. As a result, this land came into possession of the Federal Government with a clear

Advisory Opinion – Harbut & Sawyer / Big Water Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 5, 2021 Page 4 of 10
and undisputed title.2 Under the Homestead Act of 1862 and other land-grant acts, the United States
conveyed title in public lands to individuals across the country, including Utah, well into the
twentieth century. Therefore, every original land title in Utah can be traced to a patent or other
document transferring that land from the Federal Government.

In this case, the subject tracts of land were all issued as land patents by the BLM under the Small
Tract Act of 19383 between August and September of 1959. The community later officially
incorporated as the Town of Big Water on July 1, 1984.

Essentially, it appears that all privately owned property within the limits of the Town of Big Water
derives title from these land patents as platted by the BLM under the Small Tract Act.4

     II.         Parcel Joinder and Subdivisions

The Town has approved a consolidation of the Crowther-owned tracts into a single parcel in
anticipation of the proposed Lone Rock Views subdivision, which will further subdivide the
consolidated parcel into townhomes. The Town’s subdivision ordinance provides for parcel
joinder, also called “lot consolidation”.

The Town’s ordinance defines “parcel joinder (lot consolidation)” to mean “revising the legal
description of more than one contiguous unsubdivided parcel of property into one legal description
encompassing all such parcels of property,” or, “joining a subdivided parcel of property to another
parcel of property that has not been subdivided.”5

The Neighbors argue that this language does not authorize the joinder of two subdivided parcels,
and allege that the properties in question constitute a legal subdivision. The Neighbors turn to Utah
Code, as it existed at the time of the Request for Advisory Opinion,6 for the definition of
“Subdivided land” as meaning “the land, tract, or lot described in a recorded subdivision plat.”7
Because Lots 75-83 were issued as land patents pursuant to the BLM’s 1958 survey and plat, the


2
  Utah entered the Union as a state in 1895 pursuant to an 1894 Enabling Act. The Enabling Act proposed to admit
Utah as a state on an “equal footing with the original states.” As with all other states entering the Union, the transition
of the Utah territory to statehood had no effect on private land titles conferred prior to statehood. However, the
Enabling Act required the people of Utah to “forever disclaim all right and title to the unappropriated public lands
lying within the boundaries thereof,” and to agree that those lands “shall be and remain subject to the disposition of
the United States.” Utah Enabling Act, ch. 138, 28 Stat. 107 (1894).
3
  52 Stat. 609 (June 1, 1938). The Small Tract Act of 1938 was a law passed by Congress making it possible for any
citizen to obtain certain lands from the Federal Government for residence, recreation, or business purposes.
4
  According to the Big Water General Plan dated January 16, 1996 over 80% of the land base within the corporate
limits was in public ownership and approximately 10% had been platted under provisions of the Small Tract Act. Big
Water further developed its land base by acquiring additional property from the BLM through the Recreation and
Public Purposes Act. The State of Utah owns several tracts of land within and around the town proper as State
Institutional Trust Lands-(SITLA) that have been turned into subdivisions. Kane County Resource Management Plan,
137-138 (July 2017).
5
  14.20.020 (emphasis added).
6
  Provisions of the Utah Code relevant to this issue have been affected by H.B. 409, which was enacted by the 2021
General Legislative Session and will take effect on May 5, 2021. See discussion, infra.
7
  UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-103(64) (2020), affected by H.B. 409, 2021 Utah General Legislative Session (signed by
Governor on March 22, 2021).

Advisory Opinion – Harbut & Sawyer / Big Water Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 5, 2021 Page 5 of 10
Neighbors argue, they constitute a legal subdivision.8 The Town argues that the BLM “lots” do not
constitute a subdivision, and that the Town has historically treated similarly situated lots as
undivided parcels that could be further subdivided under Town ordinances.9

Whether interpreting a local ordinance or state statute, the standard rules of statutory construction
apply.10 The primary goal in interpreting statutes is “to give effect to the legislative intent, as
evidenced by the plain language, in light of the purpose the statute was meant to achieve.”11 That
necessarily includes that courts “construe statutes in a manner that renders all parts thereof relevant
and meaningful.”12

Here, the Neighbors’ interpretation is impermissible. Both state law and the Town’s subdivision
ordinances make a clear distinction between property that has been subdivided, and property that
has not. However, considering the history of private property deriving title from public land-grants,
as discussed, the Neighbors’ interpretation would mean that all privately owned property within
the State of Utah generally, and in particular the Town of Big Water specifically, would be
considered subdivided land insofar as some map or plat depicting the tracts divided off from larger
public lands was recorded. As applied, such an interpretation renders the Town’s distinction of
subdivided and unsubdivided parcels in its subdivision ordinance meaningless.

This is not the meaning of “subdivision” or “subdivided lands” under Utah Code, and, in turn, the
Town’s subdivision ordinance. In looking to the definition of “subdivided land” that references a
“recorded subdivision plat,”13 the Neighbors overlook that “Plat” is defined as a professionally
prepared map or other geographical representation of land “mad[e] and prepare[d] in accordance
with Section 10-9a-603”14—which details plat requirements for land use approval of a subdivision
under local subdivision ordinances.

A subdivision therefore does not refer to any division of land; rather, it relates to the recorded
division of land as approved by a land use authority pursuant to a regulatory scheme. This is made



8
  The Neighbors, or Mr. Harbut particularly, also feel that this is validated by County records. Mr. Harbut points to
Kane County’s online summary of the recorded warranty deed under which he acquired the property, which begins a
description of conveyance as “SUBD: BIG WATER S 24 T 43S R 2E” followed by the legal description found in the
actual deed instrument (a copy of Mr. Harbut’s actual warranty deed was included in the party submissions. See
Submission 3, Exhibit H). Mr. Harbut believes this is proof of an existing subdivision, but fails to understand that the
County’s online summary is informational only. The County Recorder’s role is simply to be a custodian of documents;
its actions do not ratify the legality of the recorded instruments nor does the acceptance and recording of an instrument
serve to arbitrate competing legal claims of the parties involved—only a court may do that. See, e.g., Grand Cty. v.
Rogers, 2002 UT 25, ¶ 25 (the mere act of accepting and recording conveyance instruments did not reasonably justify
a belief by a developer that the county intended to forego enforcing its land use code).
9
  Case in point being “Lot 78” of the properties in question, which appears to have been subdivided in some point in
the past to create a 1-acre “Lot 78A”. See illustration in Background, supra.
10
   See Brendle v. City of Draper, 937 P.2d 1044, 1047 (Utah Ct. App. 1997).
11
   Foutz v. South Jordan, 2004 UT 75, ¶ 11, 100 P.3d 1171.
12
   Id. (cleaned up).
13
   UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-103(64) (2020), affected by H.B. 409, 2021 Utah General Legislative Session (signed by
Governor on March 22, 2021).
14
   UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-103(49) (2020), affected by H.B. 409, 2021 Utah General Legislative Session (signed by
Governor on March 22, 2021).

Advisory Opinion – Harbut & Sawyer / Big Water Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 5, 2021 Page 6 of 10
even more apparent by the recent legislative changes to statutory language that clarifies some terms
relevant to subdivisions.15

Here, because the BLM’s internal survey and division of land tracts for conveyance to private
ownership—done years prior to the Town’s incorporation—was not made pursuant to any
regulatory scheme of a local land use authority, such divisions are not considered a subdivision
under Utah law. As such, approving the Crowther parcel joinder/lot consolidation did not violate
the provision in Town ordinances prohibiting joinder or consolidation of subdivided lots.16

     III.        Right-of-Way Dispute

A point of dispute on the proposed subdivision development is the accounting for existing public
streets and other rights-of-way in the approval process.

Here, the Neighbors argue that Big Water’s acceptance of a subdivision plat that vacates or accepts
dedication of roads and easements that interferes with the patented rights-of-way to extinguish
their rights would amount to a taking. This may have arguably been a concern with the initial,
withdrawn application that proposed relocating the patent rights-of-way, but the revised
preliminary plat that was actually approved by the Town appears to make this point moot. While
the plans only propose to improve a half-width of certain portions of the patent rights-of-way, the
plat nevertheless clearly depicts and accounts for the full width of the entire portion of the rights-
of-way as described in the land patents. The Neighbors’ concern with the Town’s approval as it
relates to the rights-of-way is wholly limited to speculation as to some future action the Town may
take in derogation of their purported easement rights—which is not ripe for consideration.

Despite this, the parties have each carefully articulated their respective positions on whether the
land patent rights-of-way constitute a dedication of a public right-of-way, a reservation of a private
easement, neither, or both—and appear interested in having the Ombudsman’s Office weigh in.

Our jurisdiction is limited to answering questions of compliance with Utah’s Land Use
Development and Management Act (LUDMA) in adhering to applicable land use ordinances in
approving land use proposals.17 To that end, a municipality is bound by the terms and standards of
applicable land use regulations and shall comply with mandatory provisions of those regulations.18
The land use authority substantively reviews a complete application and takes final action to
approve or deny the application according to those standards.19 An applicant is typically entitled
15
   H.B. 409 Municipal and County Land Use and Development Amendments, enacted in the 2021 General Legislative
Session, completely removes the definition of “subdivided land” and makes several other changes to terms relevant
to subdivisions. First, a clarification that a “parcel” is simply real property that is “not a lot”, whereas a “lot”
specifically means—regardless of label—a tract of land “created by and shown on a subdivision plat that has been
recorded” with the county recorder. “Plat”, in turn, was clarified as “mean[ing] an instrument subdividing property
into lots as depicted on a map or other graphical representation.” (emphasis added). In other words, a map that depicts
a partition of property is not itself a subdivision; rather, a plat is the legal instrument used to subdivide according to a
map or other representation.
16
   This question, specifically, is what was raised in the Request for Advisory Opinion and is the extent to which we
opine on whether the lot consolidation application was properly approved.
17
   See UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-205 (also, compliance with Utah’s Impact Fee Act, which is not applicable here).
18
   UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(2).
19
   UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509.5(2)(a).

Advisory Opinion – Harbut & Sawyer / Big Water Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 5, 2021 Page 7 of 10
to approval of a land use application if the application conforms to the requirements of the
applicable land use regulations, land use decisions, and development standards; however, even a
compliant application may not be entitled to approval if “the land use authority, on the record,
formally finds that a compelling, countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by approving
the application.”20

We believe that a “compelling, countervailing public interest” is akin to the “compelling state
interest” so often discussed by the courts as pertaining to fundamental rights, including private
property rights.21 Therefore, in certain cases, it may be appropriate for a municipality to deny a
complete land use application if it reasonably presents constitutional taking issues.22

However, where the existence of certain private rights are raised in opposition to proposed
development, turning to the land use authority to resolve disputed property interests places the
municipality in the impermissible position of adjudicating private rights; this is a role fulfilled only
by the court as the sole authority to quiet title in real property. 23 Therefore, where there is a
legitimate factual dispute as to a land use applicant’s right to what is proposed, or whether the
proposal will materially affect the private property interests of another person, a municipality may
choose to deny the application until a court or the involved parties resolve any takings concerns
inherent in approval of the development.

Here, because it appears that the Crowthers’ proposed development does not involve any alteration
to the rights-of-way, regardless of whether they are determined to be public or private, there is
nothing for us to opine on as the proposal does not implicate any applicable land use ordinances
regarding the roads. The Town also appears to have concluded that it had the information necessary
to determine that approval of the proposed development would not create a taking, provided it
assures and affords legal and adequate access to the rear tracts. Because the plans, as presented to
the Town for approval, would not affect the purported easement interests of the Neighbors, it was

20
   UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(ii)(A).
21
   For example: Jeffs v. Stubbs, 970 P.2d 1234 (Utah 1998) (holding that free speech is only to be burdened if a
compelling state interest is found and the law is the least restrictive means of accomplishing that interest, and the state
has a compelling interest in ensuring that all parties are able to resolve legal disputes before a neutral
tribunal); Kearns-Tribune Corp. v. Lewis, 685 P.2d 515 (Utah 1984) (holding that the public’s right of access to a
criminal trial subject only to “narrowly tailored exceptions tied to a compelling state interest”); In re P, 648 P.2d 1364
(Utah 1982) (holding that the cutting of family ties is a step of the utmost gravity which should be done only for the
most compelling reasons ); Gallivan v. Walker, 2002 UT 89 (holding that “the right of individuals to associate for the
advancement of political beliefs, and the right of qualified voters, regardless of their political persuasion, to cast their
votes effectively“); and State v. Debooy, 2000 UT 32 (holding that the State has a clear and compelling interest
in promoting highway safety and keeping drunk drivers off the road) (emphasis added).
22
   Pursuant to the Constitutional Takings Issues Act, UTAH CODE ANN § 63L-4-101 et seq., each political subdivision
must consider certain guidelines when taking any action other than a formal exercise of eminent domain that might
otherwise result in the physical taking or exaction of private real property.
23
   Utah law has not directly addressed a municipality’s obligation as to consideration of private property disputes
raised in response to a land use proposal. However, this concept that land use approval is not the appropriate venue
for quiet title claims has been well articulated in some other states. See, e.g., Borough of Braddock v. Allegheny County
Planning Department, 687 A.2d 407 (Pa. Cmwlth. 1996) (a zoning board is an inappropriate vehicle to deal with
complex issues of title, which the opposing parties should resolve by a quiet title action); see also, Cybulski v. Planning
& Zoning Comm'n, 43 Conn. App. 105, 110, 682 A.2d 1073, 1076 (1996) (planning commission does not have the
authority to determine whether a claimed right-of-way is a public highway, since that conclusion can be made only by
a judicial authority in a quiet title action).

Advisory Opinion – Harbut & Sawyer / Big Water Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 5, 2021 Page 8 of 10
not improper for the Town to move forward with approval despite the Neighbors’ opposition over
private easement concerns.24

Any remaining dispute as to whether the Neighbors have a private easement interest in the
Crowther property should be left to the courts to resolve. As to speculative future action by the
developer, should a separate development plan arise in the future that proposes a vacation or
alteration of the rights-of-way, the issue should be addressed at that time by the Town according
to the legal framework that we have identified.25 Otherwise, outside of a land use approval under
these standards, the law provides other avenues for aggrieved third parties to pursue relief to
prevent an otherwise valid land use if it would violate private property rights.26

                                                      CONCLUSION

The tracts of land included in the Town’s parcel joinder approval did not constitute an existing
subdivision under the Town’s ordinances. Because the proposed development acknowledges the
entirety of the rights-of-way depicted in the land patents, the Town properly concluded that no
present controversy needed resolution prior to the Town’s review and approval. Quiet title disputes
as to public or private rights-of-way cannot be resolved by the Town’s land use authority. Should
unresolved issues arise in a future request, the Town may deny approval if it makes a finding of a
compelling, countervailing public interest until such potential constitutional takings issues are
resolved. Otherwise, complete land use applications that do not implicate takings issues should be
reviewed for approval under applicable land use ordinances.




24
   We again note that the Town’s consideration of the land patent rights-of-way is the extent to which we have analyzed
whether the development proposal was entitled to approval, as framed in the Request for Advisory Opinion. The
Town’s approval was decided after receipt of the Request for an Advisory Opinion, and we are aware that a citizens
group has challenged the Town’s approval on appeal for several alleged deficiencies under the Town’s ordinances.
Because those alleged deficiencies were not briefed in the parties’ submittals, we do not dedicate any portion of our
analysis to these other points of ordinance compliance. We note for reference, however, that in reviewing a challenge
to a municipality’s land use decision for noncompliance with its ordinances, the applicable standard employed by the
courts is one of prejudice resulting from the noncompliance, in that there must be “a reasonable likelihood that the
legal defect in the city's process changed the outcome of the proceeding.” Potter v. S. Salt Lake City, 2018 UT 21, ¶
24 (holding that no prejudice was established by a petition to vacate a public street that failed to list the name and
address of adjacent property owners as required, where conceded that it would not have affected the city council’s
decision).
25
   Except that in instance of a petition to vacate a public road, rather than constituting an administrative review
under existing ordinances by a land use authority, the vacation must be approved by the legislative body upon
finding good cause for the vacation and that “neither the public interest nor any person will be materially injured by
the vacation.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-609.5(4). Vacation of a public street, however, does not impair any private
right-of-way or easement of a property owner. UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-609.5(6)(b)(i); see also Tuttle v. Sowadzki,
41 Utah 501, 508, 126 P. 959, 962 (Sup.Ct. 1912) (in addition to a public easement, property owners that abut on a
street also acquire a private easement, which “can only be taken from them or obstructed by making proper
compensation therefor.”) Indeed, governmental action that effectively deprives a property owner of reasonable
access to property constitutes a compensable taking. Three D Corp. v. Salt Lake City, 752 P.2d 1321, 1325 (Utah Ct.
App. 1988).
26
   UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-802(1); see generally, Benjamin v. Lietz, 116 Utah 476, 211 P.2d 449 (Sup.Ct. 1949)
(holding that a business, though lawful under zoning, may be operated so as to constitute a nuisance).

Advisory Opinion – Harbut & Sawyer / Big Water Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 5, 2021 Page 9 of 10
Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Harbut & Sawyer / Big Water Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 5, 2021 Page 10 of 10
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based
on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are
also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of Commerce,
Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as designated in that
database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:


                             Amber Banfill, Municipal Clerk
                             Big Water Town
                             60 North Aaron Burr
                             Big Water, Utah 84741-2127


On this 12th Day of May, 2021, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
