                       Advisory Opinion 280
                  Parties: Ryan Leick / Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                          Issued: December 28, 2023

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                Compliance with Land use Regulations

                                       Interpretation of Ordinances

The local land use approval process is not the proper forum for resolving title
disputes. However, Emigration Canyon’s ordinances make certain slope regulation
waivers available to “lots of record,” which, as defined, requires frontage on a right-
of-way. Where a landowner sought a determination of whether they qualified as a
“lot of record” via a disputed and unadjudicated right-of-way claim over adjoining
property, the MSD necessarily had to make a factual determination whether a right-
of-way exists for purposes of applying its ordinance.

A land use decision is supported by substantial evidence if it provides the reasoned
explanation of the basis of its decision, and a reasonable mind could reach the same
conclusion. A party’s dispute of a right-of-way claim is itself a fact that may be relied
on in making a factual conclusion of whether a right-of-way exists. The MSD’s
decision that the applicant’s property did not qualify as a “lot-of-record” is
supportable by substantial evidence as a reasonable mind could agree that no right-
of-way exists in fact where the unadjudicated right-of-way claim is disputed by the
adjoining landowner, and no information was produced showing that the right-of-
way had been claimed by a highway authority.

                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                           (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                        1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                             www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                 propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor
                              MARGARET W. BUSSE               JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                              Executive Director               Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor




                                              ADVISORY OPINION (AMENDED)1

          Advisory Opinion Requested By:                          Ryan Leick

          Local Government Entity:                                Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District

          Applicant for Land Use Approval:                        Ryan Leick

          Type of Property:                                       Agricultural

          Date of this Advisory Opinion:                          December 28, 2023

          Opinion Authored By:                                    Richard Plehn, Attorney
                                                                  Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                                 ISSUES

          Did the Municipal Services District err in its determination that the property in question is not
          considered a “lot of record” for purposes of a waiver to slope regulations?


                                             SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
          The owner of landlocked property up Emigration Canyon sought development approval of certain
          accessory structures in furtherance of a permitted agricultural use, but certain slope regulations in
          local ordinances widely prohibited development unless a waiver was granted. The ordinance
          allows for waivers for “lots of record,” for which “frontage on a right-of-way” was one of the
          required elements. The land use authority was therefore required to make a finding of whether a
          right-of-way existed to provide access to the property as a factual matter in order to determine
          whether the property was a lot of record.



          1
            An advisory opinion in this matter was initially issued on November 30, 2023. In response to a request by Mr. Leick,
          our Office has decided to issue this amended opinion to revise some statements in the opinion that pertain to the factual
          information that was in the record before the MSD for consideration. These revisions are made after consulting with
          the other involved parties, and do not affect the original opinion’s analysis or conclusion.
An administrative land use decision must be supported by substantial evidence, and a failure to
make findings renders a decision arbitrary and capricious. A decision is supported by substantial
evidence if the authority provides an explanation of its reasoning, and, considering all the evidence
in the record, both favorable and contrary, a reasonable mind could reach the same conclusion as
the agency. However, the local land use approval process is not the proper forum for determining
title, ownership, rights or interest of parties to real property. That a party contests the property
interests at issue in a land use proposal is, itself, a fact that the authority may consider in support
of its conclusion. Material issues of fact resulting from disputed property interests may therefore
be a basis for denying an application.

While the Municipal Service District’s decision, as issued, was arbitrary and capricious because it
provided no reasoned explanation for the basis of its decision, the District has since provided some
reasoning to support the decision—which is that the District did not find a public road existed
where the applicant’s claim of a public road was contested by an affected adjoining property owner,
had not been shown to be claimed by any purported highway authority, and had not been
adjudicated by a court with authority to quiet title. This reasoning satisfies the substantial evidence
standard in support of a decision to deny the lot of record determination as a reasonable mind could
reach the same conclusion.

                                            EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Ryan Leick, on March 9, 2022.
     2. Email response from Adam S. Long, on behalf of Emigration Canyon Metro Township and
        SLCO Municipal Services District, on May 18, 2022.
     3. Email response from Ryan Leick on May 23, 2022.
     4. Amended Request for Advisory Opinion, submitted by Ryan Leick, on March 27, 2023.
     5. Letter from Adam S. Long, on behalf of the Municipal Services District, on May 17, 2023.
     6. Letter from Ryan Leick on June 1, 2023.
     7. Letter from Adam S. Long on June 8, 2023.
     8. Letter from Mark Kittrell, on behalf of Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities, on
        October 27, 2023.
     9. Letter from Ryan Leick on October 31, 2023.

                                          BACKGROUND
Ryan Leick owns a 40-acre parcel up Emigration Canyon, located at the SE 1/4 of the SE 1/4 of
Section 20, Township 1 North, Range 2 East, Salt Lake Basin and Meridian. The property is zoned
Forestry & Recreation FR-20 and subject to the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ) of
the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code of Ordinances (Township Code).

According to Mr. Leick, due to surrounding geography, the property can only be accessed by an
unimproved dirt jeep trail known as “Freeze Creek Trail” that originates from Pioneer Creek Road,
and which traverses over property owned by Salt Lake City (SLC). Mr. Leick alleges that the trail

Advisory Opinion – Leick / MSD
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2023 Page 2 of 9
was constructed at some point prior to December of 1881, at a time when all property in the
surrounding area was in the public domain. Mr. Leick alleges that the trail was an established
public road prior to SLC’s acquisition of its property by deed in 1907.

Mr. Leick engaged in discussions with Salt Lake County’s Greater Salt Lake Municipal Service
District (MSD)—who acts as the land use authority for Emigration Canyon Metro Township—for
his intention to build a shed or similar structure in furtherance of a permitted agricultural use.
While the MSD determined that no building permit would be required for the proposed agricultural
accessory structure under the Forestry & Recreation zoning, it concluded that the property is also
subject to the Foothill & Canyons Overlay Zone, which widely prohibit land disturbance or
development activity to protect steep slopes and imposes certain grade requirements for roads.
However, the Township Code also allows for a waiver of slope protection standards for “Lots of
Record.”2 Mr. Leick asked for a “lot of record” determination in order to qualify for waivers under
the FCOZ regulations in furtherance of his development plans for the property. The MSD treated
Mr. Leick’s correspondence on the matter as a formal application, which we assume included all
previous correspondence on Mr. Leick’s initial agricultural permit as part of the record.

One of the requirements for a lot of record is that the property “have frontage on a . . . right-of-
way.”3 Mr. Leick claimed that his property qualifies as having frontage on a right-of-way due to
the “Freeze Creek Trail,” which he asserts constitutes an established public right-of-way according
to both Utah statute, section 72-5-104 (Utah’s prescriptive road statute), and federal Revised
Statute 2477 from Section 8 of the Mining Act of 1866 (R.S. 2477).

In response to Mr. Leick’s initial agricultural use application, SLC’s Department of Public Utilities
had opposed any efforts by Mr. Leick to obtain land use or development permits on his property
as it disputed that Mr. Leick had any right to traverse the SLC’s parcel to access his land. There
was also no information produced that the alleged right-of-way had been claimed as a public road
by any entity that would be the relevant highway authority.4 The MSD issued a letter determining
that Mr. Leick did not qualify as a lot of record.

Mr. Leick sought to appeal the MSD’s lot determination on the grounds that he could establish that
he had legal access to his property by an established public right-of-way that predates SLC’s
ownership of its property according to federal and state law. Mr. Leick has requested an advisory
opinion as to whether the MSD erred in its determination that his property is not a lot of record.

                                                   ANALYSIS
     I.          Ombudsman’s Jurisdiction for an Advisory Opinion.

As a threshold matter, both the MSD and SLC’s Department of Public Utilities responded to Mr.
Leick’s Advisory Opinion request, and argued that the Ombudsman’s Office did not have

2
  See EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP CODE OF ORDINANCES (ECMTCO) §19.12.150.
3
  Id. §19.72.200.
4
  See UTAH CODE § 72-5-104(8)(4) (the dedication and abandonment under Utah’s prescriptive road statute creates a
right-of-way held by the state or a local highway authority in accordance with Sections 72-3-102, 72-3-103, 72-3-104,
72-3-105, and 72-5-103).

Advisory Opinion – Leick / MSD
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2023 Page 3 of 9
jurisdiction to render an opinion on Mr. Leick’s access claims, alleging the issue did not fall under
one of the topics authorized by state statute. The Property Rights Ombudsman Act provides that a
written advisory opinion may be requested to determine compliance with specific, listed sections
of Utah Code that are primarily found within the Municipal and County Land Use Development
and Management Acts, and Utah’s Impact Fees Act. See, UTAH CODE § 13-43-205(1).

SLC argues that Mr. Leick has asked the Ombudsman to issue an opinion on whether he has access
across SLC’s property based on Section 72-5-104 of Utah’s Transportation Code (Utah’s
“prescriptive road” statute), and federal Revised Statute 2477 from Section 8 of the Mining Act of
1866 (R.S. 2477), neither of which are included in the Property Rights Ombudsman Act’s list of
sections of statute available for an advisory opinion.

We disagree that the Ombudsman’s Office does not have jurisdiction over Mr. Leick’s request.
While it is true that the statutes cited as the basis upon which Mr. Leick has claimed that he has an
established access right are not topics for which an advisory opinion may be requested, the overall
the context of Mr. Leick’s proceedings with the MSD falls squarely under our authority. Mr. Leick
has alleged he has adequate access to meet the elements of a “lot of record” under Emigration
Canyon’s Municipal Code in order for MSD to make a determination of the applicability of the
Code’s development restrictions to Mr. Leick’s property. The MSD’s determination in that matter
falls under the authority of the Ombudsman’s Office to provide an advisory opinion. In other
words, Mr. Leick is a “land use applicant”5 who has requested that the MSD, as the designated
“land use authority,”6 render a “land use decision”7 by “apply[ing] the plain language of [its] land
use regulations.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-306.

As mentioned, the Property Rights Ombudsman Act allows for an advisory opinion to be requested
to determine compliance with certain sections of the Municipal Land Use, Development, and
Management Act, specifically, “Sections 10-9a-507 through 10-9a-511.” Id. § 13-43-205(1)(a)(i).
Sections 10-9a-509 and 10-9a-509.5, in particular, apply to any land use application that is
submitted by a land use applicant to obtain a land use decision from a land use authority. Namely,
these sections provide that “[e]ach land use authority shall substantively review a [land use
application] and shall approve or deny each application with reasonable diligence,” id. § 10-9a-
509.5(2)(a), and that in doing so, a “municipality is bound by the terms and standards of applicable
land use regulations and shall comply with mandatory provisions of those regulations.” Id. § 10-
9a-509(2).

The Township Code provides that for properties in the Forestry & Recreation zones and also
located in the Foothills & Canyons Overlay Zone, such as the property in question, “the planning
commission may waive grade requirements for streets/roads and slope protection requirements for
lots of record . . . provided the conditions and criteria set forth in [ordinance] are satisfied.”
EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP CODE OF ORDINANCES (ECMTCO) §19.12.150
(emphasis added).



5
  See Id. § 10-9a-103(28).
6
  Id. § 10-9a-103(30).
7
  Id. § 10-9a-103(31).

Advisory Opinion – Leick / MSD
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2023 Page 4 of 9
As such, Mr. Leick’s request for a “lot of record” determination is a “land use decision” on a “land
use application” rendered by the MSD as the “land use authority,” and therefore is an appropriate
topic for an Advisory Opinion.

     II.         MSD’s Determination Letter, as Issued, Was Not Supported by Substantial
                 Evidence as it Provided No Explanation for the Basis of its Decision, Requiring
                 the Matter to be Reconsidered in Order to Make Required Findings.

As stated, the Township Code generally prohibits development activity in the Foothill & Canyons
Overlay Zone, but allows for certain waivers of grade and slope protection requirements for “lots
of record.” ECMTCO §19.12.150. For the purpose of the overlay regulations, the Township Code
defines “Lot of Record” as “[a] lot or parcel of land established in compliance with all applicable
state statutes, county ordinances, and/or other legal requirements at the time of its creation and
recorded in the office of the Salt Lake County recorder either as part of a recorded subdivision or
as described on a deed, having frontage upon a street, a right-of-way approved by the Land use
hearing officer, or a right-of-way not less than twenty feet wide.” Id. § 19.72.200 (emphasis added).

Where the Code’s provisions have made the “frontage on . . . a right-of-way” a required element
of a “lot of record” determination, the Township has, by the terms of its ordinance, taken it upon
itself under certain circumstances to determine whether a right-of-way exists for purposes of its
regulations.

This is an administrative decision, and our task, then, is to determine whether the MSD has
correctly “[applied] the plain language of land use regulations,” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-306, or else
rendered a decision that is “arbitrary and capricious” as being “not supported by substantial
evidence in the record,” or is otherwise “illegal” as “based on an incorrect interpretation of a land
use regulation[,] [in conflict] with the authority granted by this title[,] or . . . contrary to law” in
accordance with state statute Id. § 10-9a-801(3)(c).

Administrative land use decisions must be supported by substantial evidence. Staker v. Town of
Springdale, 2020 UT App 174, ¶ 24. This includes a requirement to “make findings of fact and
conclusions of law that are adequately detailed so as to permit meaningful appellate review . . .
and inform the parties of the basis of the administrative agency’s decision such that the parties
knew why the agency ruled the way it did, [and] afford the parties notice of what they would need
to challenge on appeal.” Id, at ¶ 40 (cleaned up).

A failure to produce any findings, generally, is a “fatal flaw” that renders a decision arbitrary and
capricious, N. Monticello All. LLC v. San Juan Cty., 2023 UT App 18, ¶ 17, and which inevitably
requires the matter to be reconsidered by the land use authority to be done correctly. See, UTAH
CODE § 10-9a-801(3)(d).

In the case at hand, the MSD made its determination that the property was not a lot of record
without explanation. The entirety of the MSD’s determination on the issue, as stated in the
September 8, 2022 letter, is as follows:



Advisory Opinion – Leick / MSD
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2023 Page 5 of 9
            Mr. Leick,
            I am writing in response to your request for a determination as to whether your
            property at 1475 Pinecrest Canyon Road (parcel ID: 10-20-400-002-0000) is
            considered a “lot of record” as defined in chapter 19.72 of the Emigration Canyon
            Metro Township code of ordinances. According to the section 19.72.200 of the
            ECMT code, a lot of record is, “A lot or parcel of land established in compliance
            with all applicable state statutes, county ordinances, and/or other legal
            requirements at the time of its creation and recorded in the office of the Salt Lake
            County recorder either as part of a recorded subdivision or as described on a deed,
            having frontage upon a street, a right-of-way approved by the Land use hearing
            officer, or a right-of-way not less than twenty feet wide.” Based on the definition,
            the property in question is not considered a lot of record.

(underline emphasis in original).

While the underlined portion of the cited provision may allow an inference as to which required
element of “lot of record” the MSD had specifically determined had not been met (i.e., right-of-
way frontage), the letter itself otherwise provides no findings or explanation of the basis of MSD’s
decision so as to allow Mr. Leick to know “why the agency ruled the way it did,” or “notice of
what [he] would need to challenge on appeal.” Staker, 2020 UT App 174 ¶ 40.

The decision, as issued, was therefore arbitrary and capricious and would typically require
reconsideration. However, apart from the decision letter, MSD has since provided an explanation
for its decision in responding to Mr. Leick’s advisory opinion request. So as the purpose of an
advisory opinion is to serve as a “quasi-mediation tool,” Checketts v. Providence City, 2018 UT
App 48, ¶ 28, to help the parties resolve their dispute to avoid further proceedings, we will address
the reasoning provided by MSD in its submissions to this office to hopefully address the
substantive issue of the lot of record determination.

     III.        Disputed Property Interests May Present Material Issues of Fact that May be a
                 Supportable Basis for Denial.

Utah law has not directly addressed a municipality’s obligation to consider property disputes raised
in response to a land use proposal, but the concept that the land use approval process is not the
appropriate venue to resolve quiet title disputes has been well articulated in some other states.8

Here, the MSD’s role as the land use authority is not to make a legal determination of the parties’
respective claims to title. Rather, the MSD’s role is limited to simply a factual determination that

8
  See, e.g., Borough of Braddock v. Allegheny County Planning Department, 687 A.2d 407 (Pa. Cmwlth. 1996) (a
zoning board is an inappropriate vehicle to deal with complex issues of title, which the opposing parties should resolve
by a quiet title action); see also, Cybulski v. Planning & Zoning Comm’n, 43 Conn. App. 105, 110, 682 A.2d 1073,
1076 (1996) (planning commission does not have the authority to determine whether a claimed right-of-way is a public
highway, since that conclusion can be made only by a judicial authority in a quiet title action); c.f., Clermont Terrace
Site Plan & Zoning Permit Approvals, 2006 Vt. Envtl. LEXIS 73, *10 (once an applicant has put forth some evidence
on their interest and right in the property proposed for development, any further claims to title, or claims attacking the
same, must be presented to the appropriate Superior Court for adjudication).

Advisory Opinion – Leick / MSD
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2023 Page 6 of 9
a “right-of-way” exists as a material factual element of the Code’s defined “lot of record.” So,
while the determination that a public right-of-way exists may be a legal conclusion as it relates to
the respective property interests of Mr. Leick and SLC as claimants to title in dispute, when it
comes to the MSD’s purposes, that determination is simply a factual conclusion in support of its
“lot of record” determination.

Mr. Leick argues that a formal adjudication is not necessary in order for the MSD to recognize that
the road accessing his property has been established as a public road, as according to the respective
Utah and federal laws referenced as the basis for his legal claim, such a “right attaches
automatically on the basis of activity sufficient to establish a public road,” and that “[n]o formal
adjudication, deed, application or license is required.” Stichting Mayflower Mountain Fonds v.
United Park City Mines Co., 2017 UT 42, ¶ 27; see, also, S. Utah Wilderness All. v. Bureau of
Land Mgmt., 425 F.3d 735, 768 (10th Cir. 2005).

While that is true and would be salient as to a legal claim in relation to quieting title against SLC’s
interests with respect to the road, it does not erase, for the MSD’s purposes, that Mr. Leick’s claim
is disputed by SLC, and that no entity was shown to have claimed the right-of-way to be a public
road as the relevant highway authority.

As such, when a factual matter is disputed in the record, we should not expect any more of a land
use authority than what we might expect of a court in considering whether a claimant is entitled to
summary judgment in judicial proceedings—that is, the presence of a genuine issue (dispute) of
material fact would preclude such a determination in the claimant’s favor. See, e.g., Price Dev. Co.
v. Orem City, 2000 UT 26, ¶ 9 (summary judgment is appropriate only when no genuine issue of
material fact exists and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law).

Here, the record reflects that Mr. Leick provided MSD with many documents and exhibits to
support his claim that his property had access by an established public right-of-way, most of them
recorded public records, including homestead application and land patents, subsequent deeds, plat
maps, cadastral survey maps, aerial photos, recorded mining claims, newspaper clippings, and so
on. However, the record also reflects that SLC disputed Mr. Leick’s claims, and that no information
was produced that any entity had claimed authority over the road as a highway authority, or had
been adjudicated by a court.

As a factual matter, the competing allegations of Mr. Leick and SLC resulted in conflicting
information in the record as to whether a right of way existed or not. The presence of that genuine
dispute of material fact may certainly be taken into account by the MSD in making its
determination.

A decision is supported by substantial evidence if there is a quantum and quality of relevant
evidence that is adequate to convince a reasonable mind to support a conclusion. Caster v. West
Valley City, 2001 UT App 212, ¶ 4 (internal quotation marks omitted). In determining whether
substantial evidence supports a decision, courts “consider all the evidence in the record, both
favorable and contrary, and determine whether a reasonable mind could reach the same conclusion
as the [agency].” M & S Cox Invs., LLC v. Provo City Corp., 2007 UT App 315, ¶ 36. In conducting
a substantial evidence review, a court does not “reweigh the evidence and independently choose

Advisory Opinion – Leick / MSD
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2023 Page 7 of 9
which inferences [it] find[s] to be the most reasonable. Instead, [a court] defer[s] to an
administrative agency’s findings because when reasonably conflicting views arise, it is the
agency’s province to draw inferences and resolve these conflicts. Provo City v. Utah Labor
Comm’n, 2015 UT 32, ¶ 8 (cleaned up).

Here, the MSD reasons that Mr. Leick’s claim of a public right-of-way and the evidence he has
provided in support of it is countered by:
     (1) SLC’s dispute that any right-of-way claim exists;
     (2) The absence of any information showing a highway authority claiming authority over the
         road as a public road;
     (3) The absence of any court findings of fact, conclusions of law, or order adjudicating the
         road to be a public road.

The MSD therefore concludes that, in light of the disputed nature of the road’s existence, no road
has been established for purposes of recognizing a lot of record. While this may not be the only
conclusion that could have been drawn from the evidence in the record, we nevertheless conclude
that a “reasonable mind could reach the same conclusion” as the MSD, and therefore the reasoning
provided by the MSD in its response to the advisory opinion request, were it to be provided as a
basis for denial of the lot of record determination, if reconsidered, would be supportable under the
substantial evidence standard.

     IV.         MSD Has Discretion Under the Ordinance to Deny the Waiver

One final point to note is that the “lot of record” determination in question is made in the context
of granting a waiver to certain slope regulations. The provision for which Mr. Leick sought a “lot
of record” determination from the MSD provides as follows:

           Lots of Record—Waivers from Slope Requirements. For properties in the FR zones
           also located in the foothills and canyons overlay zone (see Chapter 19.72), the
           planning commission may waive grade requirements for streets/roads and slope
           protection requirements for lots of record and lots and plans of subdivisions that
           were approved prior to the enactment of Chapter 19.72, provided the conditions
           and criteria set forth in Section 19.72.060A are satisfied.

ECMTCO §19.12.150 (emphasis added).

The use of the word “may” signals that the planning commission has discretion in approving such
waivers, see, Six Blue Bison LLC v. Alpine City, 2023 UT App 89, ¶ 18 (the word “may” is
discretionary rather than mandatory), and in fact, the Code itself identifies this planning
commission function as a “discretion to grant waivers or modifications for lots of record from the
slope protection standards.” Id. §19.72.060(D)(4) (emphasis added).

As such, we conclude that whereas the slope waiver does not “enjoy a presumption of regularity
with an expectation of approval,” Six Blue Bison, 2023 UT App 89 at ¶ 18 (internal citation
omitted), the MSD would not err in choosing to exercise its discretion to not approve a waiver


Advisory Opinion – Leick / MSD
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2023 Page 8 of 9
where there was some uncertainty about the property’s legal access or the proposed development
activity would result in conflicts with surrounding properties and uses.

                                          CONCLUSION
The MSD’s decision, as issued, was arbitrary and capricious for lacking any reasoned explanation
for the basis of its decision to deny the lot of record determination. However, the reasoning
provided by the MSD in responding to the request for an advisory opinion satisfies the substantial
evidence standard on the merits, in that a reasonable mind could reach the same conclusion that
the “right-of-way” required for a lot of record determination has not been factually established
where Mr. Leick’s alleged public right-of-way access is disputed by a neighboring landowner, has
not been shown to have been claimed by any relevant highway authority, nor has it been formally
adjudicated by a court. Even assuming the right-of-way in question does in fact exist, Mr. Leick
sought the lot-of-record determination for purposes of being granted a waiver to slope regulations,
which is a matter of discretion, and the MSD would not err in declining to approve a waiver
allowing development activity where the property’s access is in dispute.



Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Leick / MSD
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 28, 2023 Page 9 of 9
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based
on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are
also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
