                     Advisory Opinion #296
                  Parties: Neighborhood Nonprofit Housing Corporation / Perry City
                       Issued: October 17, 2024 (January 10, 2025, amended)


                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                        Entitlement to Application Approval (Vested Rights)
                              Requirements Imposed on Development
                               Compliance with Land Use Regulations,

The approval process for a final plat is the one in place at the time of the review. The
vesting laws which would lock the property owner’s application into ordinances in place at
the time of the initial preliminary plat application create entitlements for the application held
as a property right, intended to protect the owner from future detrimental land use
changes. Where an applicant waives its vested rights to be reviewed under prior
ordinances, a city may not otherwise compel the outdated process.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                           (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                        1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor                  MARGARET W. BUSSE             JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                                Executive Director             Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                      ADVISORY OPINION1

         Advisory Opinion Requested by:                       Neighborhood Nonprofit Housing Corporation

         Local Government Entity:                             Perry City

         Property Owner:                                      Neighborhood Nonprofit Housing Corporation

         Type of Property:                                    Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                       October 17, 2024
                                                              Amended January 10, 2025

         Opinion Authored By:                                 Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                              Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                                Issue

         Which process governs approval of a final plat application – the one in place when the preliminary
         plat was submitted, or the one in conformance with the now-amended state law?

                                               Summary of Advisory Opinion

         A property owner has secured preliminary plat approval for their proposed residential subdivision
         but has not yet submitted a final plat application. The city’s ordinances in place when the
         preliminary plat application was submitted dictate that city council must approve the final plat.
         However, the state legislature recently enacted legislation requiring adoption of a new subdivision
         approval process statewide that proscribes plat approval by a city council. This new legislation
         took effect February 1, 2024, before the property owner submits the final plat application.

         The city maintains that the plat application vests in the laws in place at the time the preliminary
         plat application was submitted, which includes securing final plat approval by city council, and
         that the city must therefore review the application under this outdated process. On the other hand,
         the property owner maintains that they will be submitting the final plat application after the new

         1
          This Advisory Opinion was initially issued on October 3, 2024. In the Opinion, we discuss the effective date of S.B.
         174 (2023) which is December 31, 2024, generally, but February 1, 2024, for Specified Municipalities. The original
         opinion failed to recognize Perry City as a Specified Municipality, and therefore, subject to the February 1, 2024,
         effective date. This has been corrected. The correction does not change the analysis and conclusions of the opinion.
state law amendments take effect, and that the existing, outdated process would then violate state
law and therefore is unlawful.

We find that the city may not require approval of a final plat application by city council where the
property owner is not requesting such. The vesting laws which would lock the property owner’s
application into ordinances in place at the time of initial preliminary plat application create
entitlements for the applicant held as a property right, intended to protect the property owner from
future detrimental land use law changes. Where an applicant waives its vested rights to be reviewed
under prior ordinances, a city may not otherwise compel the outdated process.

                                            Evidence

The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:
   1. Request for an Advisory Opinion submitted by Christopher Harrild on behalf of the
        Neighborhood Nonprofit Housing Corporation on March 19, 2024.
     2. Response letter from Bill Morris, Perry City Attorney, received April 9, 2024.
     3. Timeline submitted by Christopher Harrild on April 17, 2024.

                                           Background
Neighborhood Nonprofit Housing Corporation (Property Owner) seeks approval of a subdivision
of land owned in Perry City (City). The core of the dispute is who has authority to approve the
final plat.

As is fairly standard, the Property Owner submitted the preliminary plat for approval some time
before the final plat application will be submitted. The applicable city ordinances in place when
the preliminary plat application was submitted dictate that City Council must approve the final
plat. However, state law was recently amended to streamline the plat approval process statewide,
requiring each city to enact a new subdivision ordinance that, among other things, no longer allows
city council approval of plats. This state legislation was enacted with a delayed effective date to
give local governments time to adopt new subdivision ordinances that comply with the state’s
directive.

The City maintains that the plat application vests in the laws, ordinances, and processes in place
at the time the complete preliminary plat application was submitted, which includes securing final
plat approval by City Council. This is consistent with established vesting laws. On the other hand,
the Property Owner maintains that they will be submitting the final plat application after the new
state law amendments take effect, and that the existing process would then violate state law and is
therefore unlawful. The Property Owner maintains that the final plat application must be reviewed
under the streamlined process which conforms with the changes made in state law.

A brief history is as follows:




Advisory Opinion – NNHC / Perry City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 10, 2025 Page 2 of 6
                                                         TIMELINE
    March 23, 2023                        S.B. 174 (2023) enacted.
                                          The bill requires a new statewide subdivision approval process to be
                                          adopted by ordinance that proscribes city council approval of final
                                          plats. The bill’s provisions regarding the new subdivision approval
                                          process have an effective date of February 1, 2024, for City. 2
    July 25, 2023                         Preliminary Plat Application.
                                          Preliminary plat application made complete by payment made
                                          following application review with City staff. Concept review and
                                          preliminary plat application submitted earlier.
    October 25, 2023                      Preliminary Plat Approval.
                                          Following City Planning Commission review and recommendation
                                          for approval, the City Council reviewed and approved the preliminary
                                          plat.
    February 1, 2024                      New state law in effect.
                                          New state law prohibiting plat approval by city council goes into
                                          effect as UTAH CODE § 10-9a-604.1.
    Anticipated future date               Final Plat Application.
                                          Property Owner will submit final plat application after the new state
                                          law goes into effect.

Before the final plat application will be submitted, the new state law went into effect, making plat
approval by City Council unlawful. Regardless, the City has determined that vesting laws require
that the final plat application be processed under the same procedures in place when the
preliminary plat was submitted.

The Property Owner has accordingly requested this Advisory Opinion to answer whether the City
Council may be the approving land use authority for a final plat application submitted after state
law makes this practice unlawful.




2
 This date is February 1, 2024, for specified municipalities which are defined as follows: (f) "Specified municipality"
means: (i) a city of the first, second, third, or fourth class; or (ii) a city of the fifth class with a population of 5,000 or
more, if the city is located within a county of the first, second, or third class.

City is a city of the 5th class, due to its population of under 10,000, in Box Elder County which is a county of the 3 rd
class, due to its population under being between 40,000 and 1,000,000. Therefore, it is a specified municipality, and
is subject to the February 1, 2024, effective date.

Municipalities meeting the population requirements to be designated as Specified Municipality are subject to a
February 1, 2024, effective date. See UTAH CODE §§ 10-2-301 and 10-9A-604.9 (2024).

Advisory Opinion – NNHC / Perry City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 10, 2025 Page 3 of 6
                                                      Analysis

     I.          City may not require final plat approval by City Council because state law clearly
                 makes this approval unlawful after the effective date and the property owner is
                 not exercising their vested right to have the plat approved under the prior process.

This Advisory Opinion answers which process governs approval of a final plat application – the
one in place when the original plat application was submitted, or the one in conformance with the
now-amended state law. On the surface, it appears that State law gives us contradictory direction.
On the one hand, reliance on vesting laws would support applying the ordinances and processes in
place at the time the preliminary plat application was made (which includes approval of the final
plat by City Council). On the other hand, the City cannot impose a requirement that violates state
law (which makes requiring approval by City Council unlawful). When we dig a little deeper,
however, it becomes clear that the City’s land use application review and approval process must
comply with current state law, and that an applicant with an application vested under a prior
regulation may choose to have the City review that application under vested law, or alternatively
to opt-in to the new process the City is required by law to follow under updated regulations.

                                A. Utah vesting laws intended to protect property owners.

“The law of vested rights and estoppel must strike a fine balance between the competing interests
of the developer and the municipality. A developer needs some protection from changes in land
use requirements that prevent him from completing his project or that make completion more
expensive. Municipalities need the freedom to revise their land use requirements to meet new land
use problems or to implement new land use policies.” EVOLVING VOICES IN LAND USE LAW:
A FESTSCHRIFT IN HONOR OF DANIEL R. MANDELKER: Part IV: Discussions on the State
and Local Level: Chapter 7: Federalism: Vesting Verities and the Development Chronology: A
Gaping Disconnect?, 3 Wash. U. J.L. & Pol'y 603.

The original common law doctrine of vesting required a developer to obtain a building permit and
engage in some construction in substantial reliance on the permit approval before the laws and
ordinances were locked in. See, e.g. id. Vesting laws across the United States are facing reform,
however, because this original stance ignores the substantial investment made by the property
owner before the application is even made. Id.

Utah vesting laws protect property owners. A land use application, such as a subdivision plat, is
generally entitled to consideration under the ordinances in place when the application is filed, even
if the ordinances are subsequently changed. This is consistent with other states offering the most
protection to property owners. See generally, id.

This protection is codified and specifically articulated in UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(a) which
reads “(1)(a)(i) An applicant who has submitted a complete land use application as described in
Subsection (1)(c), including the payment of all application fees, is entitled to substantive review of
the application under the land use regulations: (A) in effect on the date that the application is
complete; and (B) applicable to the application or to the information shown on the application”
(emphasis added).


Advisory Opinion – NNHC / Perry City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 10, 2025 Page 4 of 6
Utah Courts also dictate this favor for the property owner. When looking to “strike the proper
balance between public and private interests . . . we hold . . . that an applicant for subdivision
approval or a building permit is entitled to favorable action if the application conforms to the
zoning ordinance in effect at the time of the application. . .” Western Land Equities v. Logan, 617
P.2d 388 (1980). This approach was contrary to the majority rule then in effect, with the Utah
Supreme Court showing clear support for the property owner. The principle of vesting “estops a
government entity from exercising its zoning powers to prohibit a proposed land use when a
property owner, relying reasonably and in good faith on some governmental act or omission, has
made a substantial change in position or incurred such extensive obligations or expenses that it
would be inequitable to deprive the owner of his right to complete his proposed development.” Id.

In other words, Utah’s early vesting laws are intended to protect property owners from a land use
authority that would seek to change the rules midstream. See id. at 396. It protects property owners
from changes when the “enforcement of the new ordinance in those circumstances would be unfair
and inequitable.” Id.

The vesting laws which lock a property owner’s application into laws in place at the time of initial
preliminary plat application create entitlements for the applicant held as a property right, intended
to protect the property owner from detrimental zoning changes. It is axiomatic that this early
vesting law cannot be used restrictively against the property owner. The vesting law prevents a
City from imposing a new regulation on a property owner against the owner’s wishes that came
into effect after the application became vested. That same vesting law, however, does not give the
City authority to impose an outdated regulation with which an applicant does not want to comply,
if a new regulation is more favorable to the land use application.

         B. New statutes streamlining plat approval process intended to protect property owners.

In 2023, the Utah Legislature adopted Senate Bill 174 which adopted several changes on a variety
of topics clarifying and standardizing how a municipality can regulate land use applications. As
relevant to this discussion, this included adoption of UTAH CODE § 10-9a-604.1 which creates a
new framework for the review and approval of subdivision plats.

Among other restrictions, the new process stipulates that the “administrative land use authority”
designated for final plat review may not be the city council. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-604.1(9) reads:
“A municipality shall review and approve or deny a final subdivision plat application in
accordance with the provisions of this section and municipal ordinances, which: (a) may permit
concurrent processing of the final subdivision plat application with the preliminary subdivision
plat application; and (b) may not require planning commission or city council approval” (emphasis
added).

The effective dates of the relevant changes made by Senate Bill 174 (174) and enacted through the
creation of UTAH CODE § 10-9a-604.1 were phased in, with the change in question being triggered
on February 1, 2024. See UTAH CODE § 10-9a-604.9(2) (2024)which reads “For a specified
municipality. . . Sections 10-9a-604.1 . . . do not apply until February 1, 2024.”

In summary, effective February 1, 2024, state law prohibits approval of the final plat by the City
Council.

Advisory Opinion – NNHC / Perry City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 10, 2025 Page 5 of 6
     C. City may not enforce illegal ordinances where the Property Owner is not exercising vested
        rights to outdated process.

Municipal land use ordinances, including those outlining the process for final plat approval, may
not contradict state law. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-104(2) states “. . . a municipality may not impose a
requirement, regulation, condition., or standard that conflicts with a provision of this chapter, other
state law, or federal law.”

In plain English, the City may not require that the city council approve a final plat after February
1, 2024, because this would violate state law. We note, however, that the Property Owner has the
option of exercising their vested rights to have the final plat reviewed under the prior process even
where state law has subsequently changed.

Therefore, we find that the City may not require approval of a final plat application by city council
where the Property Owner is not exercising their vested right to the now-amended process. The
vesting laws which would lock the property owner’s application into ordinances in place at the
time of application are intended to protect the property owner from zoning changes and may not
instead be used against them. It follows therefore that if a land use application is vested under an
outdated, but nonetheless vested, land use regulation, the applicant may choose to comply with the
rules under which the application is vested, or to opt-in to the updated, current law that is more
favorable to the applicant’s development proposal. In this case, the applicant is choosing to opt in
to the amended process.

                                             Conclusion

The City may not require approval of a final plat application by the city council. The vesting laws
which would lock the Property Owner’s application into ordinances in place at the time of initial
preliminary plat application are intended to protect the property owner from zoning changes and
may not instead be used against them. Any plat application processed after the effective date of
state law amendments must abide by the new state laws unless the Property Owner exercises their
vested right to the prior process.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – NNHC / Perry City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 10, 2025 Page 6 of 6
NOTE:
This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not constitute
legal advice and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of Utah
or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a summary
review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter and may or may not reflect the
opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and circumstances are
different or where the relevant law may have changed.
While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.
An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.
Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in § 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are also
designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
