                       Advisory Opinion 253
                             Parties: Highland City / Steve & Travis Maddox
                                              Issued: April 6, 2022

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                        Exactions on Development




A city may only require a property owner to offset impacts of development
proposed in a land use application. It may not address impacts of future
development a property owner has yet to propose.

In this case, the Maddoxes have applied to Highland City for the creation of two
building lots, only one of which will accommodate a new dwelling. Accordingly, the
City may only impose a requirement to build road and utility facilities to the extent
that such a requirement offsets the impacts of the proposed development. Since
the parties agree that the proposed development does not need the road and
utility connections the City seeks to require the Maddoxes to construct, the City
may not impose the requirement as the exaction would be excessive.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                           (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                        1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                             www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                 propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            CHRIS PARKER             JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director       Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor



                                                 ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:                   Highland City

        Local Government Entity:                         Highland City

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:                 Steve & Travis Maddox

        Type of Property:                                Residential

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:                   April 6, 2022

        Opinion Authored By:                             Jordan S. Cullimore
                                                         Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                         ISSUE
        Whether the City’s requirement that the developer construct a portion of a half-road and utility
        facilities is a lawful exaction, where the parties agree that facilities are not needed to serve the
        applicant’s current development proposal, but will be necessary for future development on a
        remainder parcel of land resulting from the proposed development.

                                         SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        A city may only require a property owner to offset impacts of development proposed in a land use
        application. It may not address impacts of future development a property owner has yet to propose.

        In this case, the Maddoxes have applied to Highland City for the creation of two building lots, only
        one of which will accommodate a new dwelling. Accordingly, the City may only impose a
        requirement to build road and utility facilities to the extent that such a requirement offsets the
        impacts of the proposed development. Since the parties agree that the proposed development does
        not need the road and utility connections the City seeks to require the Maddoxes to construct, the
        City may not impose the requirement as the exaction would be excessive.

                                                       REVIEW
        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Title 13, Chapter 43, Section
205 of the Utah Code. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty
to exhaust administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a
land use application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue.
It is hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the
courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Highland City, on September 23, 2020.

                                                            EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion submitted by Robert Patterson, Attorney for Highland
        City, on February 3, 2022.
     2. Response submitted by Paxton Guymon, Attorney for Steve Maddox, received on February
        10, 2022.

                                                           BACKGROUND
Steve and Travis Maddox (the Maddoxes) own an approximately 7.25-acre parcel of land (the
Maddox parcel) at 4764 North in Highland City. 4800 West street runs along the west border of
the parcel, and 11200 North runs along the southern border of the property. The land is zoned R-
1-40 under Highland City ordinances. This zoning designation would allow the Maddoxes to
divide the parcel into as many as eight residential building lots. Presently, the entire parcel is
occupied by a single residence.

Highland City (the City) points out that there is an existing subdivision, the Stoney Brook
subdivision, to the north of the Maddox parcel that was approved sometime in 2018. When the
Stoney Brook subdivision was platted, there were concerns about the length of the development’s
cul-de-sac, so the City required the developer of that project to include a stub road, designated as
4740 West, to provide a future secondary access point to the development, and to provide access
to future development on the Maddox parcel and the Christensen property that abutted the east
side of the Maddox parcel.

The City’s plan, at that time, was to align this stub road with the border between the Maddox
parcel—then owned by the Fehrs—and the Christensens’ property, so that when the Fehr and
Christensen properties eventually developed, the parties would theoretically complete the 4740
West road and connect it to 11200 North, thus sharing equally in the construction of the connection.
The extent to which the Fehrs and Christensens agreed with this plan is unclear from the materials
submitted to our office, but the City asserts that parties ultimately “acquiesced” to the plan. Neither
the City or the Stoney Brook developer acquired any definitive rights from the Fehrs or
Christensens for the proposed road alignment, at that time.


Advisory Opinion – Highland City / Steve & Travis Maddox
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 6, 2022 Page 2 of 7
Recently, the Maddoxes submitted an application for a minor subdivision1 to the City proposing
to subdivide the Maddox parcel. The Maddoxes’ application proposed subdividing the parcel into
two residential lots—one of which would include the existing home. The two residential lots will
front along 11200 West. The application also proposes leaving a 5.81-acre remainder parcel
designated “for future development.”

The Maddoxes’ application does not follow the City’s prior laid plans. The application does not
provide for construction of any portion of 4740 West connection, because the connection is not
needed for the current proposal. Moreover, the proposed configuration of the lots along 11200
West does not conform with the City’s desired alignment for the 4740 connection, as Lot 1 of the
subdivision comes all the way to the eastern boundary of the parcel, and leaves no space for the
future 4740 West connection. Consequently, in response to the Maddoxes’ subdivision
application, the City asked the Maddoxes to explain how they intended to provide for future
development of the 5.81 acre remainder parcel. The Maddoxes provided a concept plan depicting
the ultimate connection to 11200 West as being entirely on the Christensen parcel.


1
 Highland City Code defines a “minor subdivision” as a subdivision that results in no more than three parcels.
Highland Development Code § 5-4-205(1).

Advisory Opinion – Highland City / Steve & Travis Maddox
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 6, 2022 Page 3 of 7
The Highland City Planning Commission considered the Maddoxes application on November 16,
2021. Representatives of the Maddoxes and the Christensens participated. The Maddoxes
outlined their eventual plan to develop as many as six additional lots on the remainder parcel
identified in the current application. The Christensens indicated they were amenable to the City’s
plan proposing to split the 4740 West Connection between the Maddox parcel and the
Christensen parcel, and they asked the City to deny the Maddoxes present application because it
does not conform to that plan, and it would theoretically require the Christensens to bear a
disproportionate burden if the properties ultimately developed as proposed in the Maddoxes’
concept plan.

City staff recommended denial of the application and the Planning Commission unanimously
voted to recommend denial of the application because the Maddoxes refused to provide for a
portion of the 4740 West connection adjacent to Lot 1 in the proposed subdivision and because
the Maddoxes and Christensens were unable to agree on an alternative proposal for road and
utility connections from the 4740 West stub to 11200 West.

The Highland City Council, acting as the land use authority for the subdivision application,
considered the matter on January 18, 2022. City staff again recommended denial for reasons
related to the future 4740 West connection. After discussion, the City Council voted to continue
the application and submit an advisory opinion request to this office seeking guidance on the
matter.

                                                           ANALYSIS
The City, in its submission to this office, frames the dispute between the parties as follows:


Advisory Opinion – Highland City / Steve & Travis Maddox
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 6, 2022 Page 4 of 7
           The dispute between the Owner and the City is whether the City’s proposed
           condition on the approval of the Application that Owner dedicate and construct the
           Owner’s portion of the 180-foot or so section of the Connecting Road along and
           adjacent to Lot 1, consisting of a half-road plus additional asphalt to meet minimum
           standards for two lanes and utility facilities, (the “Condition”) is an unlawful
           exaction. Both sides appear to agree that the first prong of the exaction analysis is
           satisfied; i.e., there is an “essential nexus” or “essential link” between a legitimate
           governmental interest and the proposed condition. Utah Code § 10-9a-508(1)(a);
           B.A.M. Development, L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, 2012 UT 26, ¶ 17, 282 P.3d 41
           The interest is in providing for adequate circulation and connectivity of public roads
           and utilities, and the Connecting Road will directly advance those goals.

           The dispute between the parties is whether the extent of the exaction is “roughly
           proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the proposed
           development.” Utah Code § 10-9a-508(1)(b); B.A.M., 2012 UT 26, ¶ 19.

           To the Owner, the Application only proposes one new home on a residential lot that
           does not require additional road or utility access other than what currently exists
           along 11200 North. As such, the Owner believes that providing a stub road and
           utilities for the future connection to the Stoney Brook Stub is disproportionate to
           the impact of the Application. To the City, the Application proposes three parcels
           that effectively stage or phase the overall development of the Property. The City’s
           review of the impact of the Application includes all three parcels—Lots 1 and 2 and
           the Remainder Parcel—and the City seeks to ensure that all three are adequately
           served by public infrastructure. The City’s Code on minor subdivisions specifically
           requires the City to ensure that “[l]ots created shall not adversely affect the
           remainder of the parcel or adjoining property.” Highland Development Code § 5-
           4-205(4).

           In the City’s view, the creation of the Remainder Parcel, and Owner’s stated plans
           for the future development of the same, must be considered as part of the overall
           impact of the Application and proposed development. Owner or Owner’s
           representatives have represented to the City throughout this process that they intend
           to develop the Remainder Parcel in the future. The Remainder Parcel is created by
           the Application and is specifically marked “For Future Development.” No deed
           restriction, zoning regulation, or other limitation exists that would preclude
           development of the Remainder Parcel, except for the requirement to provide
           adequate public infrastructure to serve future lots. While the City would not require
           completion of the Connecting Road until the subdivision of the Remainder Parcel,
           the City believes that it is appropriate and necessary to provide for the future
           development of the Remainder Parcel.

Highland City Letter Supporting Request for Advisory Opinion, received February 3, 2022.

While the questions of nexus and proportionality must eventually be addressed, there is a threshold
question that must be first address, and which, in this case, resolves the present dispute. The

Advisory Opinion – Highland City / Steve & Travis Maddox
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 6, 2022 Page 5 of 7
threshold question relates to impact and asks about the scope of the proposed development—in
other words, the first question is, “What development is the present application proposing?” This
question defines the scope of the proposal and presents the impact the City must seek to offset
through the rough proportionality test.

The city’s arguments here illustrate the debate about how to frame the development proposal for
determining the impact of the proposal. May the city look at a “larger parcel” or potential future
phases of a development when determining the impact of a proposal, or must the city determine
only the impact of the currently proposed development when determining impact and a
proportional exaction?

To resolve this question, we do not need to look any further than the plain language of the state
statute governing when and to what extent a municipality may impose an exaction on
development.2 Utah Code § 10-9a-508(1) states that a “municipality may impose an exaction or
exactions on development proposed in a land use application…” (emphasis added).

Therefore, when determining what the City may consider when determining the impact of the
proposed application, the City may only consider development proposed in the current land use
application. If the law were to allow otherwise, a City may presumably impose disproportionate
burdens on developers simply by identifying potential—possibly speculative—development that
may occur and that may someday benefit from the imposed requirement, and tie the impact of that
future, potential development, to a presently proposed development proposal. This would
undoubtably impose an unlawfully disproportionate burden on the proposed development.

Accordingly, where an application substantively conforms to local code requirements, the city may
not impose requirements or exactions that consider the anticipated impacts of future development
proposals that may or may not materialize in the near term.

Here, the Maddoxes’ application proposes the addition of one additional building lot, therefore the
City may only consider the impact of that additional building lot when determining the extent to
which it may impose conditions on the proposed development.

The City, in its advisory opinion request, acknowledges that the proposed development does not
need the road and utility facilities connecting 4740 West to 11200 North. Therefore, it would be
unlawful for the City to impose the requirement to construct those facilities on the Maddoxes’
current development proposal.

We take a moment to recognize the need for careful and orderly planning within a city, and we
acknowledge that the City has done its part to attempt to facilitate such planning. While the city’s
efforts to plan for the orderly development of its local street system is commendable, the city may
not pursue its carefully laid, non-binding plan at the expense of property rights it does not possess
and that it has not proposed to pay for. This is the case even where the property owner’s
development proposal may create added costs for itself down the road, and may not align with
what the City considers to be in accordance with best practices. If a property owner ultimately
elects to develop in a manner different than the City’s preferences, but nonetheless in accordance
2
    See Utah Code § 10-9a-306(1) (“A land use authority shall apply the plain language of land use regulations.”)

Advisory Opinion – Highland City / Steve & Travis Maddox
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 6, 2022 Page 6 of 7
with local ordinances governing the development proposal, then the developer is entitled to
approval of his proposal, and the City may not require the developer to address future impacts of
future development.3

                                                           CONCLUSION
A city may only require a property owner to offset impacts of development proposed in a land use
application. In this case, the Maddoxes are currently proposing the creation of two building lots,
only one of which will accommodate a new dwelling. Accordingly, the City may impose
requirements to build road and utility facilities to the extent that such requirements only offset the
impacts of the proposed development. Since the parties agree that the proposed development does
not need the road and utility connections the City seeks to require the Maddoxes to construct, the
City may not impose the requirement, as the exaction would be excessive.




JJordan S. Cullimore,
  ordan S  Cullimore Lead Attorney
 Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




3
  Notably, in situations involving development in phases where the developer is not currently seeking approval for all
phases of the development, and where the Code doesn’t require such a plan, the city may consider proposing a
development agreement in which the parties may attempt to negotiate a mutually beneficial solution that would
provide the city improvements it seeks for future development and the property owner certain vested rights. Ultimately,
however, if the parties cannot reach a voluntary agreement, the property owner’s obligation is to comply with code
requirements to obtain approval.

Advisory Opinion – Highland City / Steve & Travis Maddox
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 6, 2022 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based
on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are
also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
