                     Advisory Opinion #223

                                     Parties: Nic Porter and Logan City

                                            Issued: May 5, 2020


                                            TOPIC CATEGORY:

                               Compliance with Land Use Ordinances
                                    Interpretation of Ordinances
                               Requirements Imposed on Development
                                     Subdivision Plat Approval



The City may require plats for single-family residential subdivisions with forty-six lots to
use the sixty-foot-wide Residential Street cross section rather than the twenty-foot-wide
Private Street cross section as required in the City’s Land Use Code and Logan
Standard & Specifications Manual. The narrower Private Street cross section is not an
option for subdivisions serving single-family residential lots.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            CHRIS PARKER             JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director       Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION


        Advisory Opinion Requested By:                   Nic Porter

        Local Government Entity:                         Logan City

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:                 Nic Porter

        Type of Property:                                Residential

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:                   May 5, 2020

        Opinion Authored By:                             Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                         Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                                          ISSUE

        May Logan City require plats for single-family residential subdivisions to use the Residential
        Street cross section rather than the Private Street cross section from the Logan City Standards &
        Specifications Manual?


                                             SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

        Logan City may require plats for single-family residential subdivisions with forty-six lots to use
        the sixty-foot-wide Residential Street cross section rather than the twenty-foot-wide Private
        Street cross section as required in the Logan Land Use Code and Logan Standard &
        Specifications Manual. The narrower Private Street cross section is not an option for
        subdivisions serving single-family residential lots.


                                                        REVIEW

        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Nic Porter on March 2, 2020. A copy of
that request was sent via certified mail to Teresa Harris, City Recorder, Logan City, 290 North
100 West, Logan, Utah 84321 on March 4, 2020.


                                                 EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

      1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Nic Porter on March 2, 2020.
      2. Response letter submitted by Kymber D. Housely, City Attorney, Logan City, on March
         16, 2020.
      3. Email response from Nic Porter on March 30, 2020.
      4. Email response from Kymber Housely on March 31, 2020.


                                               BACKGROUND

Nic Porter is seeking plat approval for a forty-six lot single-family residential subdivision in
Logan City, Utah. When the plat was submitted for review, the Logan City Standards &
Specifications Manual1 included a twenty-foot-wide Private Street cross section which Mr. Porter
would like to use to serve lots on the plat.

Logan City maintains that the required street profile for the proposed development is the sixty-
foot-wide Residential Street cross section and that the narrower Private Street cross section is
only permitted as a private driveway in multi-family developments.

Mr. Porter has requested this Advisory Opinion to determine whether Logan City may require the
Residential Street cross section rather than the narrower Private Street cross section of the Logan
City Standards & Specifications Manual to be used in the forty-six lot single-family residential
subdivision plat he has submitted for approval.

                                                 ANALYSIS

Ordinance interpretation requires application of the canons of statutory construction.2 An
analysis of the plain language of the ordinance always comes first,3 with the primary goal “to

1
    2007 APWA Standard Plans, APWA Appendix A, Appendix of Logan Specific Plans.
2
    Foutz v. City of South Jordan, 2004 UT 75, ¶8.
Advisory Opinion – Porter v. Logan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 5, 2020 Page 2 of 4
give effect to the legislative intent, as evidenced by the plain language, in light of the purpose the
statute was meant to achieve.”4 If the plain language of an ordinance is sufficiently clear, the
analysis ends there.5

The Logan City Land Development Code requires that streets serving subdivisions with more
than twenty lots have a minimum of three connections.6 Smaller subdivisions may be served by
cul de sacs (one connection) or loop roads (two connections). The subdivision Mr. Porter
proposes includes forty-six lots, and therefore, according to the Development Code, the interior
roads must have three connections.

The Logan City Public Works Standard & Specifications Plan, Residential, #269S requires a
standard road profile of sixty feet for residential streets with three connections. Therefore, by
applying the plain language of the ordinances, Mr. Porter’s subdivision must be served by
interior roads matching the required sixty-foot-wide Residential Street profile.

The Private Street Cross Section, Plan #264S, with a right of way of only twenty feet, is not
noted as an option for subdivisions serving single family residential lots. Furthermore, the
Private Street cross section detail includes a note which states “If planned to be a future city
right-of-way, must comply with current city standards.”7 The current city standard, as outlined in
the Logan City Development Code states that “all private streets . . . must be designed, built, and
maintained to the same standard as public streets . . .”8 Therefore, to meet current street
standards, the proposed streets must meet public street standards, which are those outlined above
which requires forty-six lot subdivisions to be served by streets matching the sixty-foot-wide
Residential Street profile.

Potential confusion could have been avoided had the Private Street cross section included a note
indicating that it was only to be used for driveways in multi-family residential projects. Logan
City has since removed the cross section from the Standards & Specifications Manual, so future
confusion on this issue will be avoided.

In conclusion, Logan City may require Mr. Porter to follow the ordinances and standards set
forth in the Logan City Land Development Code, as well as the Standard & Specifications
Manual, which requires forty-six lot subdivisions to use the sixty-foot-wide right-of-way detailed
on the Residential Street cross section, Plan #269S.

                                           CONCLUSION

Logan City may require plats for single-family residential subdivisions with forty-six lots to use
the sixty-foot-wide Residential Street cross section rather than the twenty-foot-wide Private
Street cross section as required in the Logan Land Use Code and Logan Standard &
3
  Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98 ¶30.
4
  Foutz, 2004 UT 75, ¶11.
5
  General Construction & Development, Inc. v. Peterson Plumbing Supply, 2011 UT 1, ¶ 8.
6
  Logan City Land Development Code § 17.30.170.E.2: Minimum Number of Street Connections by Size of
Residential Development.
7
  Logan City Standards & Specifications Manual, Private Street Cross Section, Plan No. 264S, Note 1.
8
  Logan City Land Development Code § 17.29.120.
Advisory Opinion – Porter v. Logan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 5, 2020 Page 3 of 4
Specifications Manual. The narrower Private Street cross section is not an option for
subdivisions serving single-family residential lots.




Jordan Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Porter v. Logan City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 5, 2020 Page 4 of 4
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in UTAH CODE § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                                    Teresa Harris, City Recorder
                                    Logan City
                                    290 North 100 West
                                    Logan, Utah 84321

On this 8th day of May, 2020, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
