                     Advisory Opinion #246
                                    Parties: Neighbors, Summit County
                                       Issued: November 16, 2021

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                     Appealing Land Use Decisions

                                      Conditional Use Applications

Summit County Council had a legal obligation to approve a conditional use permit
for a commercial horse boarding facility in the Rural Residential zone where the
proposed building would be much larger than surrounding homes because they
concluded that the building met all relevant development code requirements and
the project’s anticipated detrimental effects could be mitigated.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                             State of Utah
                             Department of Commerce
   SPENCER J. COX            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
      Governor
                             MARGARET W. BUSSE         JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON          Executive Director         Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
  Lieutenant Governor



                                                  ADVISORY OPINION


         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                 Neighbors to subject property

         Local Government Entity:                       Summit County

         Applicant for Land Use Approval:               Valerie Geist

         Type of Property:                              Rural Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 November 16, 2021

         Opinion Authored By:                           Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                        Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                        ISSUE
         Did the County Council correctly approve a conditional use permit for a commercial horse
         boarding facility in the Rural Residential zone where the proposed building would be much larger
         than surrounding homes?

                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

         The Summit County Council had a legal obligation to approve the commercial horse boarding and
         accessory building conditional use permit application because they concluded that the building
         met all relevant development code requirements and the project’s anticipated detrimental effects
         could be mitigated. The Council found that the proposed conditional use permit met the objective
         requirements specified in the development code, and understood that shifting the disputed horse
         barn to the eastern edge of the property away from nearby residences would mitigate the “human
         scale” imbalance.

         A court will uphold the County’s decision to issue the conditional use permit unless the decision
         was arbitrary and capricious, or illegal. In this case, the County’s decision to issue the conditional
         use permit is supported by substantial evidence, and is therefore not arbitrary and capricious.
         Further, the Council followed the ordinances and applicable law, so the decision was not illegal.
         Therefore, the decision to approve the proposed CUP was proper.
                                                 REVIEW
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205. An
advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or other
specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such a review
can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and understand
the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this opinion, may have
some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Polly McLean, Peak Law on March 30,
2021. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Thomas C. Fisher, County Manager,
Summit County, 60 North Main, Coalville, Utah 84017 on March 30, 2021.

                                                EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:
      1. Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Polly McLean, Attorney for Neighbors of
          7664 North Whileaway Road (the “Neighbors”), on March 30, 2021.
      2. Email from Polly McLean, Attorney for the Neighbors, on April 26, 2021.
      3. Letter from Jami R. Brackin, Attorney for Summit County, on May 2, 2021.
      4. Email from Polly McLean, Attorney for the Neighbors, on May 6, 2021.
      5. Email from Polly McLean, Attorney for the Neighbors, on May 18, 2021 regarding the
          attached complaint.
      6. Letter from Brent N. Bateman, Attorney for Valerie Geist, on May 19, 2021.
      7. Letter from Polly McLean, Attorney for the Neighbors, on June 14, 2021 regarding the
          attached complaint.

                                               BACKGROUND
In August 2020, Valerie Geist (the “Applicant”) submitted (1) a building permit application for a
single-family home, (2) a low impact permit for an accessory building in excess of 10,000 square
feet, and (3) a Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”) request to use that accessory building as a
commercial riding arena and stables on a 2.65-acre parcel in the Silver Creek subdivision in
Summit County.

The building and low impact permits were reviewed and issued administratively by the
Community Development Department, as required by local ordinance. However, the Snyderville
Basin County Development Code (the “Development Code”) requires that the Snyderville Basin
Planning Commission (“Planning Commission”) review the Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”) for
administrative approval.

As required by local ordinance, a public hearing for the CUP application was first held on October
27, 2020, and continued to November 10, 2020 where the Planning Commission adopted a motion

Advisory Opinion – Neighbors / Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 16, 2021 Page 2 of 7
denying the application based on the findings that it did not meet the architectural requirements of
the Summit County Development Code (“Development Code”). In particular, the Planning
Commission had concerns that the “human scale” requirement of Development Code § 10-3-5 had
not been met, and the architectural provisions of Development Code § 10-4-19 including a
prohibition on pre-fabricated metal buildings for commercial use and long expanses of façade
without architectural interest had been violated. At the November 10th public hearing, several
neighbors spoke out against the CUP voicing similar concerns.

The Applicant appealed the decision to the Summit County Council (the “Council”), in
conformance with local ordinance. The matter was heard before the Council on February 10, 2021.
The Applicant requested the opportunity to come into compliance with the architectural
requirements and suggested that the matter be remanded to provide that opportunity. The County
did not object to this course of action, and because this was a local land use appeal rather than a
public hearing, the Council did not entertain input from concerned neighbors who were not a party
to the dispute.

The Council expressed concerns about the findings of the Planning Commission and agreed to
remand with the directive to the Planning Commission to review the revisions the Applicant made
and to make further and more complete findings in three areas: 1) the specific provisions of the
architectural requirements that are or are not met; 2) further findings on whether the CUP
application complied with the “human scale” requirement of the Development Code; and 3)
whether the application violates the prohibition on metal buildings found in the Development
Code.

The Applicant submitted an amended application depicting revised architectural components, and
on March 9, 2021 the Planning Commission considered the application on remand. As stucco had
been substituted for the metal and uninterrupted façades were now broken up, the application
apparently met the requirements of the Development Code. However, the Planning Commission
determined that the application still did not meet the “human scale” requirement, finding the size
of the riding arena and stables were not consistent with adjacent development nor appropriate to
residential uses. Again, because this was not a public hearing, the Commission did not hear input
from concerned neighbors at that time.

On April 21, 2021, the County Council again heard the appeal for a final decision. Testimony at
this meeting included a presentation by Peter Barnes, a professional architect and the County
Planning and Zoning Administrator, who explained at length the meaning of “human scale”, and
who opined that the amended application met this aspect of the Development Code. His
recommendations were reflected in the staff report, as well as in the minutes of the meeting.
Because the meeting was to consider a land use appeal, and concerned neighbors were not party
to the appeal, the Council did not give the neighbors the opportunity to give input.

After some deliberations in a closed session, the Council determined that the application met the
architectural requirements of the Development Code and the human scale concerns could be
mitigated. The Council thus granted approval of the CUP subject to the condition that the large
horse barn and arena be located on the eastern end of the property, away from nearby residences.


Advisory Opinion – Neighbors / Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 16, 2021 Page 3 of 7
Concerned residents of the neighboring Whileaway Road (the “Neighbors”) object to the proposed
project and have submitted this Request for Advisory Opinion to this office asking us whether the
County Council approval of the CUP was proper. The Neighbors object to both the scale of the
proposed development and to the process in which it was approved. The Neighbors state that the
average home size in the area is just under 2,400 square feet, and the average size of accessory
buildings is approximately 1,450 square feet. They maintain that the scale of an accessory building
which is almost 10 times larger than the average accessory building exceeds the “human scale
consistent with adjacent development and residential uses.”1 They further maintain that their due
process rights were violated because they were not allowed to comment during the appeal and on
changes to the application, and that the Applicant was given too many opportunities for approval.

                                                   ANALYSIS
     I.          Legal standard for considering Conditional Use Permit applications

State law gives local governments authority to designate certain uses as conditional uses within
their individual zoning districts.2 A conditional use is defined as “a land use that, because of its
unique characteristics or potential impact on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent
land uses, may not be compatible in some areas or may be compatible only if certain conditions
are required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts.”3

Consequently, in addition to ensuring that the proposed conditional use complies with all general,
relevant, non-discretionary requirements in the local code that any other permitted use must
comply with in the same zoning district4, a county must review and permit conditional uses in
accordance with the following:

                       (1) (a) A county may adopt a land use ordinance that includes
                           conditional uses and provisions for conditional uses that require
                           compliance with objective standards set forth in an applicable
                           ordinance. . . .

                       (2) (a) (i) A land use authority shall approve a conditional use if
                           reasonable conditions are proposed, or can be imposed, to
                           mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the
                           proposed use in accordance with applicable standards.
                           (ii) The requirement described in Subsection (2)(a)(i) to
                           reasonably mitigate anticipated detrimental effects of the
                           proposed conditional use does not require elimination of the
                           detrimental effects.5


1
  Neighbors first submittal dated April 26, 2021.
2
  UTAH CODE § 17-27a-103(9).
3
  UTAH CODE § 17-27a-506.
4
  Such requirements may include density ratios, minimum lot sizes, setbacks, parking lot and landscaping
requirements, building and fire code requirements, etc.
5
  UTAH CODE § 17-27a-506 (emphasis added).

Advisory Opinion – Neighbors / Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 16, 2021 Page 4 of 7
In accordance with state law, a county must adopt applicable standards for conditional uses. These
standards guide and limit the county’s discretion in imposing specific conditions in addition to
generally applicable code requirements.

Utah law also provides that a county’s CUP application decision is entitled to a degree of
deference. When reviewing a county land use authority’s land use decision, a district court must
presume that the land use decision is valid and the court’s determination is limited to determining
“whether or not the decision, ordinance or regulation is arbitrary, capricious or illegal.”6 A decision
to grant a CUP “is arbitrary and capricious [only] if it is not supported by substantial evidence.”7
Utah courts have defined substantial evidence as “that quantum and quality of relevant evidence
that is adequate to convince a reasonable mind to support a conclusion.”8 “A determination of
illegality requires a determination that the decision . . . violates a law, statute or ordinance in effect
at the time the decision was made. . .”9

The Council determined that Applicant could mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
impacts of the proposed commercial horse boarding and accessory building in accordance with its
ordinances and approved the CUP pursuant to Section 17-27a-506 of the Utah Code. This decision
is proper because it is supported by substantial evidence on the record and it is not illegal.

                A. The Council decision to approve the CUP is not arbitrary and capricious

The Council’s decision to approve the CUP allowing the commercial horse boarding and accessory
use is not arbitrary and capricious because it is supported by substantial evidence. Utah courts have
given some analysis of what constitutes substantial evidence and what does not. For instance, in
Springville Citizens v. Springville, the Utah Supreme Court analyzed whether substantial evidence
supported a municipality’s decision to approve a planned unit development. The court noted that
the decision to approve the development came after an extended time, multiple public meetings,
documentation in support of the decision, and ultimately, multiple imposed conditions.10 The court
held that a reasonable mind could have reached the same conclusion as the municipality given the
nature and extent of the evidence and the court upheld the decision.11

By contrast, in Ralph L. Wadsworth Constr., Inc. v. West Jordan City, the Utah Court of Appeals
examined whether substantial evidence supported a county’s decision to deny a CUP. The court
held that substantial evidence did not support the City’s decision when the evidence in the record
consisted primarily of adverse public comment and reversed the denial.12

In this matter, the County held multiple public meetings on the Application, including a public
hearing and two additional meetings before the Planning Commission, as well as two appeal
hearings before the Council. The Council considered evidence and testimony from experts on

6
  UTAH CODE § 17-27a-801(3).
7
  Ralph L. Wadsworth Constr., Inc. v. West Jordan City, 999 P.2d 1240, 1242 (Utah Ct. App. 2000) (alterations in
original) (other citations omitted).
8
  Bradley v. Payson City, 70 P.3d 47, 52 (Utah 2003) (citation omitted).
9
  UTAH CODE § 17-27a-801(3).
10
   Springville Citizens, 979 P.2d at 337.
11
   Id.
12
   Ralph L. Wadsworth Construction, Inc., 999 P.2d at 1243.
Advisory Opinion – Neighbors / Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 16, 2021 Page 5 of 7
whether the Application met the architectural standards within the Development Code, and
whether it fit the “human scale” requirement. The record includes discussion by several individuals
regarding the term’s meaning and application. The record includes findings of fact establishing
that they considered this evidence when determining whether to grant the CUP. In addition, the
Council imposed conditions to mitigate any impact of the proposed use on the neighboring
properties. Considering the foregoing, the record contains adequate information to convince a
reasonable mind to support the Council’s conclusion to approve the conditional use. This means
the Council’s decision is supported by substantial evidence in the record and is therefore not
arbitrary and capricious.

It is worth noting that a great deal of deference is given to the land use authority’s decision. Utah
state law grants the land use authority the legal right and stewardship to investigate and approve
or deny land use applications. Where a land use authority has made a decision that is supported by
substantial evidence, the law does not contain any provision allowing a court, or this office, to
compare and weigh anew the available evidence to determine whether a different conclusion could
be reached. There is no allowance for substituting the court’s judgment, or our judgment, for that
of the local land use authority.13

                              B. The Council decision to approve the CUP is not illegal

The Council’s decision to approve the CUP allowing the commercial horse boarding and accessory
use is not illegal because it followed the laws, statutes, and ordinances in effect at the time of its
decision.

It is undisputed that the proposed use is a Conditional Use within the Rural Residential zone. As
stated above, the proposed project complies with relevant local ordinances, and the condition that
the large barn be built on the eastern edge of the property away from adjacent residences mitigates
the “human scale” concerns. The proposed development therefore adequately meets the
requirements of the local Development Code.

The Neighbors allege that there are issues related to due process and the number of meetings, and
thus opportunities for approval, afforded the Applicant. The Neighbors also object to their not
being allowed to give input after the first public hearing and to the closed session deliberations
held by Council during the appeal process.

The decision to approve or deny a conditional use permit is an administrative land use decision
and Summit County is required to abide by any due process procedures established to protect third-
parties in both state law and local ordinance.14 Neither the Utah Constitution nor the Utah Code
give third-parties an entitlement to participate in administrative land use decisions or any
subsequent appeal. State law does not require that conditional use permit applications be
considered at either a public hearing or a public meeting, nor is notice to the public or neighbors
required.15


13
   See Springville Citizens v. Springville, 979 P.2d 332, 337 (Utah 1999).
14
   UTAH CODE § 17-27a-506.
15
   See UTAH CODE § 17-27a.

Advisory Opinion – Neighbors / Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 16, 2021 Page 6 of 7
However, the Summit County Development Code does require that conditional use permits are
considered at a public hearing at some point in the review process. This requirement was
apparently fulfilled on October 27, 2020, and again on November 10, 2020. There are no other
relevant “due process” requirements afforded third-parties in the conditional use permit approval
process.

Furthermore, when the Council heard the appeal, it was acting in its capacity as the land use appeal
authority. When acting as the appeal authority, the Council is functioning as a quasi-judicial body,
and not as a legislative decision-making body.16 As such, the requirements of the Open and Public
Meetings Act would not apply.17 There is no law prohibiting closed deliberations during land use
appeals.

The Neighbors further argue that due process was not provided because the Applicant got so many
opportunities to be heard and they received only one. There is nothing in state or local code which
hampers the ability of the County to continue Planning Commission meetings, nor to remand and
revisit issues. The Neighbors have identified an inherent imbalance in rights afforded the various
players in the legal system. The Applicants do, in fact, receive deference and consideration not
afforded other, arguably less affected parties. This difference is not a lack of due process.

It appears that at each step in the CUP consideration process the rights of the relevant parties,
including the Neighbors, were upheld. It follows that the Council followed its ordinances and
applicable law, and therefore the decision to approve the commercial horse boarding and accessory
use was legal.

                                                 Conclusion
Summit County Council had a legal obligation to approve the commercial horse boarding and
accessory use CUP application because, it concluded that the project’s anticipated detrimental
effects could be mitigated. The Council found that the proposed CUP met the objective
requirements specified in the Development Code, and understood that shifting the horse barn to
the eastern edge of the property away from local residences would mitigate any “human scale”
imbalance.

A court will uphold the County’s decision to issue the CUP unless the decision was arbitrary and
capricious or illegal. In this case, the County’s decision to issue the CUP is supported by substantial
evidence, and is therefore not arbitrary and capricious. Further, the Council followed the
ordinances and applicable law during the review process and therefore the decision was legal.
Accordingly, the decision to approve the proposed CUP was proper.



Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

16
  UTAH CODE § 17-27a-701(3).
17
  Dairy Prod. Svcs, v Wellsville, 2000 UT 81, ¶60 (“the ‘decision making’ or deliberation of a public body during a
judicial process may be held in private and is exempt from the requirements of the Act.”).

Advisory Opinion – Neighbors / Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 16, 2021 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based
on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are
also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
