                     Advisory Opinion #216
                                   Parties: Michael Halls; Kaysville City
                                        Issued: October 11, 2019

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                Compliance with Land Use Ordinances
                                   Interpretation of Ordinances
                                     Subdivision Plat Approval

Projects within the city’s Planned Residential Unit Development Overlay Zone may be
developed at higher densities than allowed in the underlying zone, as long as a
measured amount of common open space is provided. A subdivision plat could be
designed such that detention basins and areas within the front setback meet all of the
code requirements for common open space. Thus, by the plain meaning of the
ordinance, either may be included in common open space calculations.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI      BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director     Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor



                                                 ADVISORY OPINION


        Advisory Opinion Requested By:                Michael Halls

        Local Government Entity:                      Kaysville City

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:              Subdivision Plat

        Type of Property:                             Residential

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:                October 11, 2019

        Opinion Authored By:                          Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                      Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       ISSUE

        May Kaysville City include detention basins and areas within front setbacks in common open
        space calculations?

                                         SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

        Projects within the Planned Residential Unit Development Overlay Zone in Kaysville, Utah may
        be developed at higher densities than allowed in the underlying zone, as long as a measured
        amount of common open space is provided. A subdivision plat could be designed such that
        detention basins and areas within the front setback meet all of the Code requirements for
        common open space. Thus, by the plain meaning of the ordinance, either may be included in
        common open space calculations.

                                                     REVIEW

        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
        administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
        application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
        hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
        neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Michael Halls on July 9, 2019. A copy of
that request was sent via certified mail to Maria Devereaux, City Recorder, City of Kaysville, 23
East Center Street, Kaysville, Utah 84037 on July 11, 2019.

                                                     EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

      1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Michael Halls on July 9, 2019.
      2. Letter submitted by Lyle Gibson, Community Development Director, Kaysville City, on
         July 30, 2019.

                                                  BACKGROUND

Ovation Homes is seeking plat approval for a 5.74 acre active adult community near 1955 West
and 200 North in Kaysville, Utah. The subject property is within the Planned Residential Unit
Development Overlay Zone (commonly referred to as “PRUD”). Projects within PRUD may be
developed at higher densities than allowed in the underlying zone as long as a measured amount
of common open space is provided. The required open space is calculated according to a set
formula1 and once platted, must be burdened with a permanent Neighborhood Open Space
Easement granted to Kaysville City to ensure the common open space remains open.2

According to the submissions, the development proposed by Ovation Homes takes advantage of
this density bonus in exchange for providing an estimated 25,000 square feet of common open
space. A large percentage of this common open space is provided via a minimally improved
detention basin required by another section of the Code. The submissions do not indicate how
the remaining common open space areas are improved.

Michael Halls lives near the proposed development and objects to the quality of the common
open space proposed. He mentions that neighboring developments include walking trails and
playground equipment in their common open space. He notes a lack of evidence establishing
that the detention basin open space would be “useable to all owners” and “easily accessible
therefrom” as required by Kaysville City Code.3 He also questions whether the proposed
common open space meets the intended purpose of the zoning classification, which includes
preserving “meaningful open space, conservation areas, and lands such as wetlands, steep slopes,
and unique vegetation.”4
1
  “The minimum common open space required shall be determined by dividing the minimum lot size allowed in the
underlying zoning district by the average lot size in the plat and then multiplying the result (quotient) by ten percent
(10%), then multiplying the product by the total area of the subdivision.” KAYSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE § 17-34-
7(1)(f).
2
  Id.
3
  Id.
4
  Id.
Advisory Opinion – Halls v. Kaysville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 11, 2019 Page 2 of 5
Furthermore, according to the record, the City Engineer has opined that in addition to the
detention basin, the areas within the front setback (i.e. front yards) could be included in common
open space calculations.

Mr. Halls has requested this Advisory Opinion to determine if the otherwise unimproved
detention basin and front setback area may be included in the common open space calculations
for projects developed under the Planned Residential Unit Development Overlay Zone.

                                                  ANALYSIS

Ordinance interpretation requires application of the canons of statutory construction.5 An
analysis of the plain language of the ordinance always comes first,6 with the primary goal “to
give effect to the legislative intent, as evidenced by the plain language, in light of the purpose the
statute was meant to achieve.”7 If the plain language of an ordinance is sufficiently clear, the
analysis ends there.8

Note that meaning must be given to words which are missing as well as those included. It must
be presumed “that each term included in the ordinance was used advisedly”9 and “[o]missions in
statutory language should be taken note of and given effect.”10

It is also important to recognize that zoning ordinances should be strictly construed in favor of
the property owner, since such ordinances are in derogation of an owner’s use of land.11

While “common open space” is not specifically defined, the Kaysville City Code (hereafter, the
“Code”) includes the following requirements:
    The common open space must be “usable and accessible by all owners.”12
    Similarly, the Code stipulates that “[t]he open space . . . should be located adjacent to all
       dwelling units or easily accessible therefrom”13
    “No streets, driveways, or residential parking areas may be included as part of the
       required common open space.”14
    “The required common open space may include natural areas, and/or areas totally
       designed and landscaped.”15
    “Any open space that is not common open space cannot be used to fulfill the common
       open space requirements.”16

5
  Foutz v. City of South Jordan, 2004 UT 75, ¶8.
6
  Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98 ¶30.
7
  Foutz, 2004 UT 75, ¶11.
8
  General Construction & Development, Inc. v. Peterson Plumbing Supply, 2011 UT 1, ¶ 8.
9
  Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98, ¶ 30, 104 P.3d 602, 606 (Utah Ct. App. 1995).
10
   Biddle v. Washington Terrace, 1999 UT 110, ¶ 14.
11
   Carrier, 2004 UT 98 ¶31.
12
   KAYSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE § 17-34-7(1)(f).
13
   KAYSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE § 17-34-7(1)(c).
14
   KAYSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE § 17-34-7(1)(f).
15
   Id.
16
   Id.
Advisory Opinion – Halls v. Kaysville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 11, 2019 Page 3 of 5
           “A Neighborhood Open Space Easement on and over the common open space shall be
            granted to Kaysville City concurrent with recording of the final plat. The easement will
            provide that the common open space remains open.”17
           “The easement shall allow for landscape maintenance and construction of recreational
            structures as long as not more than thirty percent (30%) of the open space is covered by
            such structures.”18

In summary, the Code provides that the common open space must be accessible to the
residences, may be left natural or be landscaped, have no more than thirty percent (30%) devoted
to recreational structures, must be permanently dedicated to common or public use, and cannot
include driveways and parking areas. As currently depicted in the record, the detention basin
appears to meet the Code requirements for common open space.

Likewise, the subdivision could be designed such that the areas within the front setbacks
similarly met the necessary requirements for common open space. To qualify, the areas within
the front yard setbacks must be commonly owned, burdened with a permanent Neighborhood
Open Space Easement, and be “usable and accessible to all owners,”19 rather than the private
property of the individual lot owners. If this is done, commonly held open space in front yards
would be permanently owned and controlled by the HOA, and usable by all residents, and would
qualify as common open space.

Note that the Code includes a list of areas which cannot be included in the common open space.
The Code states that “[n]o streets, driveways, or residential parking areas may be included as
part of the required common space.” Recall that “[o]missions in statutory language should be
taken note of and given effect,”20 In this case, neither detention basins nor front setbacks are
included in the list of areas which cannot be included in common open space. This lack of
prohibition equates to permission unless prohibited elsewhere.

Mr. Halls further argues that language in the purpose statement of PRUD precludes detention
basins and front setbacks from being common open space. He points to language that states one
purpose of PRUD is to provide “meaningful open spaces, conservation areas, or sensitive
lands.”21 He argues that using detention basins and front yard setbacks as common open space
does not meet this standard. However, purpose statements are not substantive parts of an
ordinance. The Utah Supreme Court explained that “a statement of legislative purpose . . . is
nothing more than a statement of policy which confers no substantive rights.”22 In other words, a
purpose statement does not establish rights or limit activities. A purpose statement may “provide
guidance to the reader as to how the act should be enforced and interpreted, but they are not a
substantive part of the statute.”23



17
   KAYSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE § 17-34-7(1)(g).
18
   Id.
19
    KAYSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE § 17-34-7.
20
   Biddle v. Washington Terrace, 1999 UT 110, ¶ 14.
21
   KAYSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE § 17-34-1.
22
   Price Development Co. v. Orem City, 2000 UT 26, ¶ 23, 995 P.2d 1237, 1247.
23
   Id.
Advisory Opinion – Halls v. Kaysville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 11, 2019 Page 4 of 5
Furthermore, the quoted terms expressed in the purpose section are not enforceable because they
are not based upon objective, measureable standards. Requirements for development imposed by
local government must be based upon objective, measureable facts, and “denial of a permit is
arbitrary when the reasons are without sufficient factual basis.”24 In this case, the Code provides
no way to objectively measure or enforce the vague ideal of “meaningful” as applied to open
space, conservation areas, or sensitive lands.

Mr. Halls also argues that the detention basin is mandated by another section of the Code and
should not do double duty as common open space. The relevant section of Code requires that
where cul-de-sacs are provided and “surface water drains into the turnaround due to the grade of
the street, necessary catch basins and drainage systems and easements shall be provided.”25
There is nothing in this section, nor the section requiring common open space, to suggest an area
cannot be designated both as a detention basin and common open space.

In summary, there is nothing in the Code which would prevent the proposed detention basin and
front setback areas from being included in common open space. Both areas can meet the criteria
established in the Code and are not otherwise excluded. As depicted in the record, the detention
basin does not include driveways, streets, or parking areas, may be landscaped or left natural,
does not include a recreational structure which covers more than thirty percent (30%) of the area,
and could be dedicated to common or public use, all as required by the Code. Furthermore, the
development could be designed such that areas within the front setback could similarly meet all
of the Code requirements for common open space. Thus, by the plain meaning of the ordinances,
either detention basins and/or commonly owned front setback areas may be included in common
open space calculations.

                                                    CONCLUSION

Detention basins and commonly owned areas within front setbacks may be included in common
open space calculations for projects developed under the Planned Residential Unit Development
Overlay Zone in Kaysville, Utah. Projects within this overlay zone may be developed at higher
densities than allowed in the underlying zone, as long as a measured amount of common open
space is provided. As depicted in the record, the detention basin appears to meet all of the Code
requirements for common open space. The subdivision could be designed such that the areas
within the front setbacks similarly meet the necessary requirements. Thus, by the plain meaning
of the ordinance, either may be included in common open space calculations.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

24
     Davis County v. Clearfield, 756 P.2d 704, 711 (Utah Ct. App. 1988).
25
     KAYSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE § 19-52-2(3).
Advisory Opinion – Halls v. Kaysville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 11, 2019 Page 5 of 5
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in UTAH CODE § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

     Maria Devereaux
     Kaysville City Recorder
     23 East Center Street
     Kaysville, Utah 84037

 On this ___________ day of October, 2019, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                               ______________________________________________________
                               Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
