                     Advisory Opinion #247
                     Parties: Spring Creek Cove Development Corp, Murray City
                                     Issued: December 2, 2021

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                        Exactions on Development

                                Requirements Imposed on Development

                                        Subdivision Plat Approval

The city’s requirement that irrigation canals be piped within new residential subdivisions
is lawful, even where the developer must enter an agreement it finds “outrageous and
illegal” to secure permission to enclose them. Cities may use their police powers to
implement generally applicable regulations protecting the health, safety, and welfare of
citizens. There are, however, limits to what a government agency may impose via
regulations. Generally speaking, regulations that require the conveyance of real or
personal property to the government—so called exactions—are subject to constitutional
protections.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                             State of Utah
                             Department of Commerce
   SPENCER J. COX            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
      Governor
                             MARGARET W. BUSSE       JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON          Executive Director      Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION
         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                 Spring Creek Cove Development Corp

         Local Government Entity:                       Murray City

         Applicant for Land Use Approval:               Spring Creek Cove Development Corp

         Type of Property:                              Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 December 2, 2021

         Opinion Authored By:                           Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                        Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                        ISSUES
         1. May an advisory opinion address a land use decision that was not appealed and therefore final
            and lacking any further judicial remedy?

         2. Is the city’s requirement that irrigation canals be piped within a new residential subdivision
            lawful where the developer must enter an “outrageous and illegal” agreement with the canal
            owner to secure permission to enclose them?

                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
         Because the request for this Advisory Opinion was filed in accordance with state statute it is
         considered timely and an Advisory Opinion will be issued. The Advisory Opinion process does
         not require an open case or controversy, as courts do, only that the request be filed before a land
         use decision becomes final.

         The city’s requirement that irrigation canals be piped within new residential subdivisions is lawful,
         even where the developer must enter an agreement it finds “outrageous and illegal” to secure
         permission to enclose them. Cities may use their police powers to implement generally applicable
         regulations protecting the health, safety, and welfare of citizens. There are, however, limits to what
         a government agency may impose via regulations. Generally speaking, regulations that require the
         conveyance of real or personal property to the government—so called exactions—are subject to
         constitutional protections.
In this case, the city is requiring the developer to work with the ditch company to enclose an
existing irrigation canal that runs through property proposed to be used as a residential subdivision.
Developer claims they are being forced to agree to the ditch company’s “outrageous and illegal”
agreement proposal in order to proceed with their residential development. The developer further
claims that by extension, because the city is requiring the work be done as a condition of
development, the city is imposing an outrageous and illegal agreement on them, and requiring
them to make payments that address impacts beyond those imposed by the proposed development.

Because the City is not requiring ownership of the canal or other property be transferred to the
government, the regulation is not an exaction and not subject to protection under the Takings
Clause of the U.S. Constitution. Instead, the regulation is a generally applicable land use law, the
validity of which is subject to the “reasonably debatable” legal standard. Because the ordinance
was passed to protect citizens from flooding, nuisance, and the hazards of open water, the
regulation appears to be reasonably debatably within the interests of the general welfare of the
citizens and therefore lawful.

                                                      REVIEW
A request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final decision
by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205. An Advisory
Opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative remedies,
of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or other specific
land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such a review can
help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and understand the
relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this opinion, may have
some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Jacob Ballstaedt, Spring Creek Cove
Development Corp on December 3, 2020. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to
Jennifer Kennedy, City Recorder, Murray City, 5025 South State Street, Room 115, Murray UT
84107 on December 10, 2021.

                                                    EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

      1. Request for Advisory Opinion, Jacob Ballstaedt, Spring Creek Cove Development Corp,
         December 3, 2020.
      2. Reply submitted by Robert C. Keller, Esq., representing Murray City, January 15, 2021. 1




1
    Reply submitted by Robert C. Keller, Esq., representing Murray City, January 15, 2021.
Advisory Opinion – Spring Creek / Murray City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 2, 2021 Page 2 of 9
                                                BACKGROUND
Spring Creek Cove Development Corp (the “Developer”) is developing Spring Creek Cove
Development, a new residential subdivision consisting of 15 residential units on just over five
acres in Murray City (the “City”). As part of the subdivision review and approval process, City is
requiring Developer to pipe an existing irrigation canal owned by the Little Cottonwood Tanner
Ditch Company (the “Ditch Company”) which crosses the property. Approximately 25% of the
irrigation canal is already piped and the existing improvements include a trash rack and racoon
guard.

The City has adopted design standards for subdivisions which establish generally applicable
minimum requirements for grading, curbs, gutters, drainage, streets, pedestrian ways, sidewalks,
connections to sewer facilities, storm drains, fire hydrants, street signs, traffic safety devices, street
lighting facilities, etc. (the “Development Code”).2 Of relevance, the Development Code states
that “[o]pen gravity flow ditches are not permitted within the boundary of a subdivision . . .”3 The
City maintains that “open irrigation channels in residential neighborhoods can pose a range of
concerns, including flooding of the area, hazards to residents (particularly children), and the
potential for nuisance, including contaminants and attraction of wildlife.”4 As such, Developer was
required to “work with Ditch Company to pipe the existing irrigation canal that runs in an easement
on the west side of the property.”5

The Developer has reportedly made several attempts to come to a reasonable agreement with the
Ditch Company, but ultimately finds they are “being forced to agree to their outrageous and illegal
agreement”6 in order to proceed with their residential development.

The Developer maintains that the agreement Ditch Company insists on violates UTAH CODE § 73-
1-15.5 which governs relocation of water conveyance facilities. In particular, that section limits
expenses to the “costs reasonably and necessarily incurred by the facility owner related to the
modification of the water conveyance facility” and further limits attorney fees to a maximum of
$5,000.

The Developer maintains that Ditch Company required Developer to pay a non-refundable $7,000
“good will” fee, which by definition exceeds the costs “reasonably and necessarily incurred.” The
Developer further objects to a provision in the agreement which requires payment of attorneys’
fees in connection to reviewing the agreement which exceed the mandated $5,000 cap. The
Developer is also required to take over maintenance of the existing trash rack and raccoon guard
on a portion of the ditch which has already been piped and to inspect and clean out all trash racks
on a daily basis.




2
  Murray City Code § 16.16.010 et. seq.
3
  Murray City Code § 16.16.300.
4
  Reply submitted by Robert C. Keller, Esq., representing Murray City, January 15, 2021.
5
  Planning Commission meeting minutes, March 5, 2020.
6
  Request for Advisory Opinion, Jacob Ballstaedt, Spring Creek Cove Development Corp, December 3, 2020.
Advisory Opinion – Spring Creek / Murray City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 2, 2021 Page 3 of 9
Developer has therefore submitted a Request for Advisory Opinion to determine whether the City’s
requirement that the Developer pipe the irrigation canal, and thus be subject to “outrageous and
illegal” requests by the Ditch Company is lawful.

In order to move forward with the construction, the Developer has signed an agreement with the
Ditch Company and the City has approved the final plat. This approval has not been appealed.
The City has requested that our Office decline to issue an Advisory Opinion on this issue because
the subdivision plat approval has not been appealed and the decision is therefore final and our
response is legally moot.

                                                    ANALYSIS
      I.          Request for Advisory Opinion does not require open case or controversy

As an initial matter, the City requested that our Office decline to issue an Advisory Opinion
based on this request because the subdivision application has been approved and the window of
time to appeal has passed so there is no live case or controversy. To further this argument, the
City quotes the boilerplate “Review” section of advisory opinions and suggests the purpose is
“not only to provide advice and guidance, but to aid or incentivize the parties in reaching a
practical solution without judicial intervention.”7 The “Review” section is included here
(emphasis added):

                        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to
                        the rendering of a final decision by a local land use appeal authority
                        under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205. An Advisory
                        Opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to
                        exhaust administrative remedies, of significant land use questions
                        so that those involved in a land use application or other specific
                        land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
                        hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation,
                        resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and understand the
                        relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the
                        end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of
                        resolving such issues in the courts.

The City argues that the Developer has now received final approval for the subdivision plat, and
that the approval had become final on the day the request for Advisory Opinion was submitted
because it was not appealed. At the time of writing the Advisory Opinion, the Developer has
finalized the disputed agreement with the Ditch Company and construction is likely well under
way. Under the circumstances, the City claims that the Developer’s request is untimely and an
Advisory Opinion cannot “aid or incentivize the parties in reaching a practical solution without
judicial intervention.”8



7
    Reply submitted by Robert C. Keller, Esq., representing Murray City, January 15, 2021.
8
    Reply submitted by Robert C. Keller, Esq., representing Murray City, January 15, 2021.
Advisory Opinion – Spring Creek / Murray City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 2, 2021 Page 4 of 9
The City further argues that the “doctrines of waiver and mootness weigh against issuing an
advisory opinion in this matter.”9 In entering a contractual agreement with Ditch Company, the
issue is resolved, and the case is moot because judicial relief cannot affect the rights of the
litigants.10 In this case, the City maintains that an advisory opinion should be considered moot or
no longer necessary.

The City makes legally sound arguments; however, the authority of this Office differs slightly
from that established for courts. The authority for Advisory Opinions is outlined in state statute.
UTAH CODE § 13-43-205(1)(b) stipulates that “a request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at
any time before a final decision on a land use application” has been made. In this case, the
Advisory Opinion Request was filed before the last day to appeal the Planning Commission’s
approval of the plat, and is therefore timely. The requirement that our Office issue an Advisory
Opinion in response to a timely request does not change, even when the issue would become
moot because judicial relief cannot affect the rights of the litigants.

      II.         Requirement to pipe the canal is lawful

The fundamental dispute in this matter is between the Developer and the Ditch Company. Our
Office has not been asked to resolve that aspect of the dispute, nor do we have authority to address
in an advisory opinion whether the Ditch Company was acting lawfully in their demands of the
Developer.11 Instead, we are asked whether the City can impose the requirement that the canal be
enclosed which results in the dispute between the Developer and the Ditch Company over how it
should be enclosed.

To determine whether this requirement is lawful, we must apply one of two established legal
standards for reviewing land use ordinances:

      1. Reasonably Debatable test. This is the assumed starting point for determining the validity
         of generally applicable land use ordinances. This test presumes the ordinance is valid and
         involves only minimal judicial scrutiny. A court reviewing a land use regulation shall
         presume that a properly enacted land use regulation is valid and determine only whether
         “it is reasonably debatable that the land use regulation is consistent with [state law].”12 The
         answer to “can the city do this?” is nearly always yes under this test.

      2. Rough Proportionality test. This test applies to regulations requiring dedication of
         property to the public, and thus implicating the Takings Clause of the U.S. and Utah
         Constitutions. This is a higher bar with greater judicial scrutiny. The answer to “can the
         city do this?” is carefully measured in light of a development proposal’s impact on the
         city’s ability and capacity to provide services to the development. The courts apply this
         standard to exactions, which are government-mandated contributions of property as a
         condition of development approval.
9
  Reply submitted by Robert C. Keller, Esq., representing Murray City, January 15, 2021.
10
   See, e.g. Burkett v. Schwendiman, 773 P.2d 42, 44 (1989).
11
   This Office has authority to mediate, and potentially arbitrate, such disputes, but is not authorized to issue an
Advisory Opinion addressing dispute between a developer/private property owner and a private ditch company. See
UTAH CODE § 13-43.
12
   UTAH CODE § 10-9a-801(3)(a).
Advisory Opinion – Spring Creek / Murray City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 2, 2021 Page 5 of 9
Therefore, the core dispute at hand is whether the City’s requirement that Developer pipe the canal
and secure agreement from the canal owner is a generally applicable land use regulation, subject
to the “reasonably debatable” test, or an exaction which must satisfy the higher “rough
proportionality” test constitutional protection provides.

                  a. Requiring the piping of the canal, in this case, is a regulation not an exaction

It is established that an owner of property holds it subject to zoning ordinances enacted pursuant
to a state's police power.13 Police power is “the capacity of the states to regulate behavior and
enforce order within their territory for the betterment of the health, safety, morals, and general
welfare of their inhabitants.”14

The U.S. Supreme Court has further held that the valid exercise of police power includes land use
regulations.15 The enactment of a standard land use ordinances is a legislative decision subject to
the “reasonably debatable” test whereby a reviewing court must presume that a properly enacted
land use regulation is valid and determine only whether “it is reasonably debatable that the land
use regulation is consistent with [applicable state law]”16 and therefore in the interest of the general
welfare.

However, there are limits to what a government agency can impose via regulations. Both the U.S.
Constitution and the Utah Constitution protect private property from governmental taking without
just compensation. The “Takings Clause” in the Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution reads,
in relevant part, “nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.”
Likewise, Utah Constitution Article I, Section 22 states “private property shall not be taken or
damaged for public use without just compensation.”

Property owners are afforded this constitutional protection against takings even when going
through the land use permitting process. Land use applicants are vulnerable to coercion that the
constitution protects because the government often has broad discretion to deny land use
proposals.17 Legislative discretion could be used, even unintentionally, to essentially extort
property from a developer. For example, by conditioning a building permit on the owner’s deeding
over property for a public right-of-way, the owner is often likely to yield to the governments
demand, no matter how unreasonable or illegal, as long as the development is still profitable.18

At the same time, many proposed developments impose costs on the public that dedications of
property may reasonably offset. Where a development proposal would substantially increase
traffic congestion, for example, officials might lawfully condition permit approval on the owner’s
agreement to deed over the land needed to widen a public road burdened by the development. It is
considered fair that developers pay for the impact of their development.

13
   Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U.S. 365, 71 L. Ed. 303, 47 S. Ct. 114 (1926).
14
   “Police Power”. Encyclopedia Britannica.
15
   See, e.g. Euclid v. Rambler Realty, 272 U.S. 365 (1926).
16
   UTAH CODE § 10-9a-801(3)(a).
17
   Koontz v. St. Johns River Water Mgmt. Dist., 570 U.S. 595, 133 S. Ct. 2586, 186 L. Ed. 2d 697, 2013.
18
   Id.
Advisory Opinion – Spring Creek / Murray City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 2, 2021 Page 6 of 9
However, local governments may only require a contribution of land or construction of public
resources such as roadways, sidewalks, curbs, and gutters as a condition of approval that offset
only the impact of the proposed development. To require a contribution beyond this violates the
Takings Clause. The protection is designed such that a government may not “forc[e] some people
alone to bear public burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a
whole.”19

Note that the Takings Clause protects all forms of real and private property, not only the dedication
of land, but also the payment of money and installation of specific improvements for the public
benefit required as a condition of development approval.

In the current case, the Developer is alleging that the City’s requirement that they pipe the
irrigation canal and secure approval from the Ditch Company as a requirement for subdivision plat
approval is an exaction that violates the Takings Clause. They argue that paying the nonrefundable
$7,000 “good faith” fee as well as unlimited attorneys’ fees, and daily maintenance of facilities
installed by the canal company by definition requires compensation beyond their impact.

On the other side, the City argues that the requirement that irrigation canals be buried in all
residential subdivisions is a standard land use regulation. The City maintains that to be an exaction,
and thus afforded constitutional protections, the property interest required as a condition of
approval must be dedicated to the public.

The City argues that because any cost, expense, or moneys paid, goes directly to the canal
company, and the piped canal will continue to be privately owned, this is not an exaction and not
afforded constitutional protection under the Takings Clause. The City maintains that any dispute
Developer has with Ditch Company is a contractual issue between the two private parties and does
not involve the City.

According to the Utah Supreme Court, "[d]evelopment exactions may be defined as contributions
to a governmental entity imposed as a condition precedent to approving the developer's project.
Usually, exactions are imposed prior to the issuance of a building permit or zoning/subdivision
approval.”20 Indeed, in the seminal U.S. Supreme Court cases involving exactions, the defining
characteristic is not just that there is a condition of development approval, but also that the
condition involve the transfer of a property interest or money to the public.21

In the case at hand, the piped canal remains property of the Ditch Company. The City is not
demanding the conveyance of property or payment of money to any public entity. Furthermore,
any fees or reimbursements paid the Ditch Company do not involve the City. There is nothing to
indicate that the city’s requirement, in and of itself, is anything other than a generally applicable



19
   Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960).
20
   Salt Lake County v. Board of Educ. of Granite Sch. Dist., 808 P.2d 1056, 1991 Utah LEXIS 20, 157 Utah Adv. Rep.
3 quoting Mazuran, The Evolution of Real Estate Development Exactions in Utah, 3 Utah Bar J. Aug./Sept. 1990, at
11 (emphasis added).
21
   See, e.g., Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825 (1987); Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S. 374 (1994);
and Koontz v. St. Johns River Water Mgmt Dist., 570 U.S. 595 (2013).
Advisory Opinion – Spring Creek / Murray City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 2, 2021 Page 7 of 9
land use regulation.22 The Developer may have a cause of action against the Ditch Company for
violating the requirements of UTAH CODE § 73-1-15.5, however, that does not implicate the
propriety of the City’s requirement that irrigation canals be enclosed.

Requiring the Developer to pipe an existing irrigation canal does not implicate the Takings Clause
because property is not being dedicated to the public. Therefore, the ordinance requiring the piping
of all open irrigation canals in residential subdivisions is a generally applicable land use regulation
which does not implicate the Takings Clause in this case.

                  b. City may require that open irrigation canal be enclosed

The Utah Legislature has articulated the standards that a court must apply when reviewing
generally applicable land use regulations in UTAH CODE § 10-9a-801(3)(a):

            (3)(a) A court shall:
                    (i) presume that a land use regulation properly enacted under the authority
                    of this chapter is valid; and
                    (ii) determine only whether:
                             (A) the land use regulation is expressly preempted by, or was
                             enacted contrary to, state or federal law; and
                             (B) it is reasonably debatable that the land use regulation is
                             consistent with this chapter.

Utah courts have consistently held “that the enactment and amendment of zoning ordinances is
fundamentally a legislative act.”23 The wisdom behind these holdings is that “[t]he political nature
of the decision making process underlying municipal zoning demands that the power to make such
decisions be vested in persons who are publicly accountable for their choices."24 Furthermore, "[i]t
is the policy of [the] court as enunciated in its prior decisions that it will avoid substituting its
judgment for that of the legislative body of the municipality."25

A municipal legislative decision will therefore meet this highly deferential “reasonably
debatable standard” if “it is reasonably debatable that the [decision to grant or deny the new
ordinance] is in the interest of the general welfare.”26

22
   As alluded to briefly above, the legislature recently enacted a statutory scheme to guide, and hopefully help resolve,
exactly these types of disputes between developers and canal operators when development occurs. The fact the
legislature created this scheme is an apparent acknowledgement that a city’s general requirement to improve a
privately owned and operated ditch when development occurs is not subject to the constitutional, heightened “rough
proportionality” test applied to exactions. The applicable statute, Utah Code § 73-1-15.5, established a separate process
for resolving these disputes through negotiation, mediation, and potentially arbitration. The statue outlines a process
the parties must follow to allow for beneficial use of the property and relocation of a canal facility, while still
preserving the purpose and function of the canal to convey water. It also generally outlines which parties are
responsible for what, and limits who must pay certain costs. It appears the parties in this case did not elect to utilize
this process prior to entering into an agreement.
23
   Bradley v. Payson City Corp., 2003 UT 16, P 11, 70 P.3d 47 (citing Sandy City v. Salt Lake Cnty., 827 P.2d 212, 221
(Utah 1992)).
24
   Petersen v. Riverton City, 2010 UT 58, 243 P.3d 1261 quoting Bradley, 2003 UT 16, P 11, 70 P.3d 47.
25
   Id.
26
   Id.
Advisory Opinion – Spring Creek / Murray City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 2, 2021 Page 8 of 9
In this case, there has been no allegation that the ordinance in question was not properly enacted,
nor has there been any allegation that the land use regulation is expressly preempted by, or enacted
contrary to, state or federal law, so we jump to the last prong of the standard.

We must determine whether “it is reasonably debatable that the land use regulation is consistent
with this chapter.” As stated above, the Utah Supreme Court has interpreted this to mean “in the
interest of the general welfare.”27 The City has required open irrigation canals be piped within
proposed residential subdivisions because “open irrigation channels in residential neighborhoods
can pose a range of concerns, including flooding of the area, hazards to residents (particularly
children), and the potential for nuisance, including contaminants and attraction of wildlife.”

The regulation appears to be squarely in the interest of the general welfare of the residents of
Murray City. Therefore, Murray City’s ordinance requiring the enclosure of open irrigation canals
is lawful.

                                                CONCLUSION
Because the Request for Advisory Opinion was filed in accordance with state statute, before a final
decision had been made on the subdivision plat, it is considered timely.

Furthermore, the City’s requirement that the Developer enclose the existing irrigation canal in
conjunction with development of the proposed residential subdivision is a generally applicable
land use law subject to the “reasonably debatable” standard. Because the ordinance was passed to
protect citizens from flooding, nuisance, and the hazard of open water, the regulation appears to
be squarely in the interests of the general welfare of the citizens and is therefore lawful.



Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




27
     Id.
Advisory Opinion – Spring Creek / Murray City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 2, 2021 Page 9 of 9
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the UTAH CODE. It does not constitute
legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of
Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may not
reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage dispute
resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if those
circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award them.
