                       Advisory Opinion 298
                           Parties: Worthington Ranch, LLC, Grantsville City
                                     Issued: November 14, 2024


                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                         Application Review Fees



Infrastructure improvement inspection fees may not exceed the reasonable cost of
conducting the inspection and must be calculated in reference to studies, reports,
or some other method, contained in a record, and for which an itemized fee
statement can be provided upon request. It is not possible to determine the 3% fee
exceeds the actual reasonable cost of providing inspection services based on the
information provided.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                           (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                        1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor               MARGARET W. BUSSE         JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                             Executive Director         Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION

         Advisory Opinion Requested by:                 Barry Gittleman, Hamlet Homes

         Local Government Entity:                       Grantsville City

         Property Owner:                                Worthington Ranch, LLC

         Type of Property:                              Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 November 14, 2024

         Opinion Authored By:                           Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                        Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                                         Issue

         Do the infrastructure improvement inspection fees charged by Grantsville City comply with state
         law?

                                          Summary of Advisory Opinion

         The City may only impose inspection fees that (1) do not exceed the reasonable cost of conducting
         the inspection, and (2) are calculated in reference to studies, reports, or some other method,
         contained in a record, and for which an itemized fee statement can be provided upon request.

         The City has established an inspection fee of 3% of the estimated cost of public improvements for
         inspecting the water, sewer, stormwater, and sidewalk infrastructure serving residential
         developments. This fee schedule is based on a 2021 study, which concluded that a 5% fee was too
         high, but that 3% was a reasonable compromise. However, the study does not provide sufficient
         details, such as expected or actual inspection tasks, personnel, time, or hourly wages, to verify that
         the 3% fee accurately reflects the actual costs of inspection services. Furthermore, Utah law
         requires that cities provide an itemized fee statement upon request which the City did not provide.
It is therefore not possible to determine whether the 3% fee exceeds the actual reasonable cost of
providing inspection services based on the information provided.

Until and unless the City can demonstrate that the 3% fee reflects the reasonable cost of inspections
for this development and provides an itemized fee statement as required by law, the current fee
structure is not lawful.

                                                           Evidence

The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:
       1. Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Barry Gittleman, on May 10, 2023,
          including copies of correspondence with the City regarding the inspection fee.
       2. Email from Dallin Littlefield, on behalf of the City of Grantsville, on May 31, 2024.
       3. Email from Barry Gittleman on June 4, 2024.

                                                          Background
Worthington Homes, LLC (Property Owner) is seeking approval of Phase 1 of a residential
subdivision in Grantsville City (City). City charged Property Owner $99,000 in improvement
inspections fees for Phase 1 of the Worthington Ranch development which includes 30 lots. The
fee covers the cost of inspecting the water, sewer, stormwater, and sidewalk infrastructure that is
part of the development. The City issued a partial refund of just over $14,0001, but even with this
refund, the Property Owner believes the $85,000 fee paid is well above the reasonable cost to the
city of providing the inspection services.

The City maintains that they conducted a fee study in 2021 to evaluate their Planning and Zoning
and Engineering Fees. The engineering inspection fee was set at 3% of the estimated improvement
costs “which covers the cost of inspecting the water, sewer, stormwater, and sidewalk infrastructure
for developments.” Letter from Sherrie Broadbent dated May 10, 2023. The City maintains
generally that these inspections include multiple site visits, testing, fees, materials, and meetings.
Time for the Mayor, City Engineer, Infrastructure Inspector, and Public works Director were also
considered when the fee was established. The fee was reportedly reduced from 5% to 3% in
response to information gathered from the study. The fee was kept as a percentage of the
engineering cost estimate due to the increased inspection time required as infrastructure is added.
According to the City, “exact hours spent were not calculated due to the large variance in
development sizes.” Id. Furthermore, the City claims that “inspection fees are used to cover the
direct cost of the time of specific employees or contractors for Grantsville City.” Email from Dallin
Littlefield, City Attorney, dated May 31, 2021.

The Property Owner argues that the fee study does not include enough detail to be useful. The fee
study is entirely comprised of two Excel spreadsheets. One focuses on the expected time spent on
plat review and includes only a one-line explanation of the 3% inspection fee. The second
spreadsheet gives a fee comparison between the past process and the process adopted in 2021.
1
    It is not clear from the record why $14,000 was refunded.
Advisory Opinion – Worthington Ranch / Grantsville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 14, 2024 Page 2 of 5
Neither spreadsheet includes any breakdown of anticipated staff, hours, tasks, hourly wages, tests
to be conducted, etc. for providing infrastructure inspection.

Furthermore, the study does not provide justification for charging a percentage of the overall cost
of the improvement. The City maintains that cost of inspection “tends to correlate” with the overall
cost of the development, but also that “the extent and number of necessary inspections for each
development varies.” Letter from Dallin Littlefield dated May 31, 2024.

The Property Owner maintains that this is not sufficient support for establishing the inspection fee
at 3%. The Property Owner further disputes that inspection costs increase in direct proportion to
improvement costs. The materials submitted by the City that are apparently part of the 2021 study
similarly do not find inspection costs going up in connection to the number of lots. The information
provided in the 2021 study list three example subdivision costs which do not support charging
inspection fees as a percentage of infrastructure costs.

                              Subdivision                 Number of    Inspection Fee of 3%
                                                            Lots       of improvement costs
                             Subdivision 1                  20               $26,731

                             Subdivision 2                   26              $15,304

                             Subdivision 3                   31              $41,525

                  2021 Zoning Fee Schedule Calculations Revised

The study does not include a corresponding break down of estimated time for inspection fees. The
study only concludes that “Multiple site visits, testing, fees, materials, and meetings” is allocated
3% of the estimated cost of improvements. There similarly is no information on the actual cost to
provide the inspection for this development.

The Property Owner has alleged that the inspection fee imposed far exceeds the standard cost in
other jurisdictions which means it is higher than the “reasonable cost” of providing the service.
Accordingly, the Property Owner has requested this Advisory Opinion to answer whether the City
may lawfully charge a flat 3% of the estimated improvement costs as the established inspection
fee as a condition of subdivision plat approval.

                                                            Analysis

      I.          The City may not impose or collect an inspection fee that exceeds the reasonable
                  cost of performing the inspection and must provide an itemized fee statement
                  showing how the inspection fee charged was calculated.

Utah law permits local government to impose service fees to recover costs for services or benefits
provided. In V-1 Oil Co. v. Utah State Tax Commission, 942 P.2d 906 (Utah 1996), the Utah
Supreme Court discussed the concept of fees charged by government entities:



Advisory Opinion – Worthington Ranch / Grantsville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 14, 2024 Page 3 of 5
                   [A] fee raises revenue either to compensate the government for the provision
                   of a specific service or benefit to the one paying the fee or to defray the
                   government's costs of regulating and policing a business or activity engaged in
                   by the one paying the fee.

942 P.2d at 911 (quoting BLACK’S LAW DICTIONARY).

However, this must be done within the confines set by state law. Utah Code Section 10-9a-104(2)
states, “ . . . a municipality may not impose a requirement, regulation, condition, or standard which
conflicts with this chapter, other state law, or federal law.” Therefore, the City may adopt
inspection fee schedules and/or impose fees, but they must be in conformance with state law.

As related to charging inspection fees, state law requires that “A municipality may not impose or
collect an inspection fee . . . that exceeds the reasonable cost of performing the inspection . .
.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-510(4)(b). Furthermore, “If requested by an applicant . . . the municipality
shall provide an itemized fee statement that shows the calculation method for each fee.” In other
words, a city may not charge inspection fees that exceed the reasonable cost of conducting the
inspection and must provide an itemized statement for fees charged when requested.

The City has adopted and is applying a flat inspection fee of 3% of the estimated cost of the
improvements. The basis for this fee is a 2021 study that concludes without justification or
reasoning that “multiple site visits, testing, fees, materials, and meetings” are allocated 3% of the
estimated cost of improvements. There is nothing in the materials provided to indicate that the 3%
charged does not exceed the reasonable cost of performing the actual work of inspecting the
improvements. Furthermore, the information provided by the City does not suffice as “an itemized
fee statement” showing the calculation method for each fee even when requested by the Property
Owner.

Without data to justify such, relying on the cost of the improvements is not a reliable method to
keep fees proportional to actual reasonable costs of providing the inspection. The inspection fee
must be tied to the actual reasonable cost of providing the actual inspections for that development.
The study the City is basing their 3% inspection fee on does not provide any data on inspection
costs incurred. While a generalized flat fee, based upon accurate studies and data, may be
appropriate as a starting point for imposing a fee, the authority to charge the inspection fee comes
with the burden of providing, at the applicant’s request, an itemized fee statement for the inspection
work performed which must not exceed the reasonable cost of conducting the inspection. This
framework ensures that if an applicant believes the standard fee does not accurately reflect the cost
of inspecting the applicant’s project, the applicant can obtain the data and conclusions used to
calculate the fee and determine whether the standard fee is excessive for the particular project.

In conclusion, the City may only lawfully impose inspection fees (1) which do not exceed the
reasonable cost of conducting the inspection and (2) for which they provide an itemized fee
statement when asked. Until these two criteria are met, the imposition of the 3% of improvement
costs as a flat inspection fee is not lawful.




Advisory Opinion – Worthington Ranch / Grantsville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 14, 2024 Page 4 of 5
                                                          Conclusion

The City may only impose inspection fees that (1) do not exceed the reasonable cost of conducting
the inspection, and (2) are calculated in reference to studies, reports, or some other method,
contained in a record, for which an itemized fee statement showing the calculation method can be
provided upon request.

The City has established an inspection fee of 3% of the estimated cost of public improvements for
inspecting the water, sewer, stormwater, and sidewalk infrastructure serving residential
developments. This fee schedule is based on a 2021 study, which concluded that a 5% fee was too
high, but that 3% was a reasonable compromise. However, the study does not provide sufficient
details, such as expected or actual inspection tasks, personnel, time, or hourly wages, to verify that
the 3% fee accurately reflects the actual costs of inspection services. Furthermore, Utah law
requires that cities provide an itemized fee statement upon request which the City did not provide.
It is therefore not possible to determine whether the 3% fee exceeds the actual reasonable cost of
providing inspection services based on the information provided.

Until and unless the City can demonstrate that the 3% fee reflects the reasonable cost of inspections
for this development and provide an itemized fee statement as required by law, the current fee
structure is not lawful.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Worthington Ranch / Grantsville City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 14, 2024 Page 5 of 5
NOTE:
This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not constitute
legal advice and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of Utah
or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a summary
review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter and may or may not reflect the
opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and circumstances are
different or where the relevant law may have changed.
While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.
An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.
Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in § 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are also
designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
