                     Advisory Opinion #209
                                 Parties: Housel Family v. City of Francis
                                        Issued: February 28, 2019

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                Compliance with Land Use Ordinances
                                    Conditional Use Applications
                                    Interpretation of Ordinances
                               Requirements Imposed On Development

Francis City ordinance requires landowners to “minimize” the effects of lighting spillage
onto neighboring properties and to “prevent” exposure of light sources to the view of
residents. It appears that this ordinance has not been followed or enforced. The
ordinance must be given meaning and effect according to its plain language. No
interpretation of the terms “minimize” or “prevent” matches the small to nonexistent
efforts apparently taken here to manage the light exposure to the residents. The City
must enforce this ordinance in a meaningful and effective way.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI     BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director    Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION
        Advisory Opinion Requested By:               Housel Family

        Local Government Entity:                     City of Francis

        Type of Property:                            Commercial

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:               February 28, 2019

        Opinion Authored By:                         Brent N. Bateman
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                     ISSUES
        Did Francis City properly issue, and has the developer complied with, the Conditional Use
        Permit with respect to lighting? Also, has Francis City correctly interpreted and applied its
        ordinances with respect to the lighting on the developer’s property?



                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        The Conditional Use Permit issued by Francis City did not contain a condition with respect to
        lighting, so the City cannot enforce a lighting condition as a way to mitigate the potential
        detrimental effects from the spillage of lighting onto neighboring residential properties.

        The City does have an ordinance that requires landowners to “minimize” the effects of lighting
        onto neighboring properties and to “prevent” exposure of light sources to the view of residents. It
        appears that this ordinance has not been followed or enforced. The ordinance must be given
        meaning and effect according to its plain language. No interpretation of the terms “minimize” or
        “prevent” matches the small to nonexistent efforts apparently taken here to manage the light
        exposure to the residents. The City must enforce this ordinance in a meaningful and effective
        way.
                                             REVIEW
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Dena Housel, on behalf of the Housel
Family, on October 10, 2018. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Mayor Byron
Ames, City of Francis, 2317 So. Spring Hollow Road, Francis, Utah 84036.


                                           EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Dena Housel, on behalf of the Housel
        Family, on October 10, 2018.
     2. Received a response from Brad Christopherson, Attorney for the City of Francis, on
        November 19, 2018.
     3. Received a response from Dena Housel on November 26, 2018 including pictures of the
        facility.
     4. Received an email from Mr. Christopherson including pictures of the lighting at the
        Storage facility.



                                          BACKGROUND
The Housel family and other homeowners (collectively “Housel”) live adjacent to the storage
facility owned by Premier Storage Inc., (“Premier”) in the City of Francis, Utah. The Storage
facility is located in a commercial zone, operates under a duly issued conditional use permit, and
became operational sometime in 2018.

Housel has requested this Advisory Opinion because, they allege, the “intensity of the lights”
from the storage facility “is extremely bright and they shine directly into our homes.” They
allege that the lights from the storage facility violate the conditional use permit, violate the City
ordinances, and/or violate the development lighting plan. Presuming that the information and
photographs provided to this Office are accurate and authentic, which has not been disputed,
multiple bright lights do appear to shine directly onto the Housel properties from the Premier
property.
Advisory Opinion – Housel Family
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 28, 2019        Page 2 of 5
The City argues that the lighting at the Premier facility in all respects complies with the Francis
City ordinances and the conditional use permit. In addition, the City argues that the deadline to
appeal the conditional use permit has passed, and cannot be challenged. The City also points out
that it did require the developer to place a solid fence between the facility and the residential
area, in order to better block some light. Also, it is expected that the next phase of the
development will block more of the light from reaching the Housel properties. Thus, according
to the City, the ordinance requirements have been met.


                                             ANALYSIS
I. The Premier Storage Facility is Not in Violation of the Conditional Use Permit

A conditional use permit is a land use entitlement that allows a particular use to take place on a
property. The use is conditional because the municipality recognizes that although the use is
allowed, it may carry some detrimental effects. See UTAH CODE § 10-9a-507. The conditions are
imposed in order to mitigate those effects, and help meet the community’s established standards.
A conditional use permit must be obtained, and the conditions met, before the developer can
engage in the particular use of the property.

At Premier's conditional use permit hearings in 2015, Housel raised questions regarding the
lighting as a detrimental effect. These questions were sufficient to merit consideration by the
City. However, the City elected not to include any condition regarding the lighting in the issued
conditional use permit. Housel now alleges that the matter was not further pursued and
conditions not imposed due to assurances received from Premier that the lighting effects would
be mitigated by various means. Some of the documents provided could support that theory.
However, whether because of those assurances or for some other reason, the fact remains that
City did not impose any condition relating to the lighting.

Because the City did not issue a condition regarding the lighting, the conditional use permit
cannot be used to mitigate any detrimental effects of the lighting. Thus, Premier’s refusal to
control the lighting spillage is not a violation of the conditional use permit. Whether the lighting
is a detrimental effect that should have been considered, or whether exclusion of those conditions
was an oversight, or even if the conditions were excluded due to some false assurances, the
conditions regarding lighting were not included in the CUP, and the time to appeal the CUP and
have the conditions added has passed. The developer’s refusal to mitigate the effects of the
lighting does not amount to a violation of the conditional use permit.

II. The Premier Storage Facility Violates Francis City Ordinances.

The City ordinances, however, are a separate matter. Independent of whether they correlate with
conditions in the CUP, the property owner must comply with ordinance requirements placed
upon it. If the property owner violates the ordinances, the City should enforce them.

Francis City has at least one ordinance that applies to this situation:

Advisory Opinion – Housel Family
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 28, 2019        Page 3 of 5
           Where differing uses are to be developed adjacent to existing residential areas,
           special consideration shall be made to protect the privacy of residents and
           requirements shall be the discretion of the Planning Commission and City
           Council. As a minimum, the negative effects of noise and artificial lighting shall
           be minimized to protect existing residents.

           Service areas shall be properly screened. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to
           prevent exposure of light source to the view of residents. Facilities that require
           late-night customers and activities shall be located away from residential areas to
           reasonably prevent disruption of privacy.

Francis City Code 18.45.160

The City has interpreted this ordinance and at first, in a letter dated July 30, 2018, notified
Premier that it was not in compliance and must remedy the situation. Then, in a later undated
letter, indicated that the Premier facility complies with the ordinance. This question thus turns on
the interpretation of the ordinance, which requires use of the principles of ordinance
interpretation. The primary goal of ordinance interpretation is “to give effect to the legislative
intent, as evidenced by the plain language, in light of the purpose the statute was meant to
achieve.” Foutz v. City of South Jordan, 2004 UT 75, ¶11. An analysis of the plain language of
the ordinance always comes first. Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98 ¶30. If the plain
language of an ordinance is sufficiently clear, the analysis ends there. General Construction &
Development, Inc. v. Peterson Plumbing Supply, 2011 UT 1, ¶ 8.

Further, it is presumed that the legislative body used each word advisedly. Selman v. Box Elder
County, 2011 UT 18, ¶18. “When the plain meaning of the statute can be discerned from its
language, no other interpretive tools are needed.” Id. “In addition ‘statutory enactments are to be
so construed as to render all parts thereof relevant and meaningful, and . . . interpretations are to
be avoided which render some part of a provision nonsensical or absurd.’” Perrine v. Kennecott
Mining Corp., 911 P.2d 1290, 1292 (Utah 1996). Finally, when interpreting its own ordinances,
the City is entitled to some non-binding deference. Fox v. Park City, 2008 UT 85, ¶11. So the
City’s interpretation of the ordinance matters. However, this deference has limits, see UTAH
CODE § 17-27a-508(2), and must yield to the plain meaning of the ordinance terms. The City is
not entitled to interpret its ordinance to the point that the plain meaning is ignored and without
effect.

Francis City Code 18.45.160 contains certain key terms that have plain and straightforward
meanings. The ordinance states that “the negative effects of noise and artificial lighting shall be
minimized to protect existing residents.” Moreover, “Outdoor lighting shall be designed to
prevent exposure of light source to the view of residents.” The term minimize, although it does
not mean eliminate, means (according to Google) to “reduce (something, especially something
unwanted or unpleasant) to the smallest possible amount or degree.” The term prevent (according
to Google) means to “keep from happening or arising.” By its plain language, this ordinance can
only mean that some action must be taken so that the lighting shall have very little impact on
existing residents.

Advisory Opinion – Housel Family
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 28, 2019        Page 4 of 5
It is difficult to see how this ordinance has been followed in this matter. Assuming the
information received by this Office is accurate, lights are shining directly from the development
into the residential area, and onto homes. Measures apparently taken to reduce that light have
been marginal (the requirement to install a solid fence) or nonexistent (the promise that future
phases may block light). Neither apparently minimizes or prevents the light from reaching the
residences. Although the fixtures appear to be downward facing, the bulbs are fully exposed and
visible to the residences. Thus the downward-facing aspect of the light fixtures does not
minimize or prevent light exposure. Thus, it appears that according to the plain language of the
ordinance, the owner is in violation now. The City should enforce its ordinance.

Note that the plain language of the ordinance does not require that all light effects be eliminated.
However, exposure to the residences must be “minimized” and “prevented.” Moreover, the
ordinance does not require that Housel select or even approve of the mitigation measures taken.
How to meet the ordinance remains within the discretion of the City. Nevertheless, effective
mitigation measures must be taken in accordance with Francis City Code in order to give this
ordinance consequence and meaning. It appears that as of now, none have.


                                          CONCLUSION
The Conditional Use Permit issued by Francis City did not contain a condition with respect to
lighting, so the City cannot enforce a lighting condition as a way to mitigate the potential
detrimental effects of the lights.

However, the City does have an ordinance that requires landowners to “minimize” the effects of
the lighting onto neighboring properties and to “prevent” exposure of light source to the view of
residents. It appears that this ordinance has not been followed or enforced. The ordinance must
be given meaning and effect according to its plain language.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Housel Family
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 28, 2019        Page 5 of 5
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:


                      Mayor Byron Ames
                      City of Francis
                      2317 So. Spring Hollow Road
                      Francis, Utah 84036


On this 1st Day of March, 2019, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
