                       Advisory Opinion 222
                                  Parties: Joseph White / Tooele County
                                             Issued: April 30, 2020

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                     Appealing Land Use Decisions

                                Compliance with Land Use Ordinances

                                      Conditional Use Applications

While the County may be in the process of amending its land use ordinance
regarding Planned Unit Developments (PUDs)—for perceived deficiencies or
otherwise—the existing scheme must still be applied to submitted applications,
and interpreted in favor of a proposed use. The County’s existing scheme treats
PUD applications as a conditional use under a three-step approval process, and
authorizes flexibility with certain zoning requirements as deemed appropriate,
upon certain findings. The planning commission approved a concept plan under
the first step of the PUD approval process, and a third-party appeal of that
decision was limited to approval of the concept plan only and failed to prove any
error by the planning commission. Accordingly, the County must now proceed with
substantive review of the approved concept plan for code compliance under the
preliminary and final plan steps of the PUD approval process, which subsequent
steps will be further eligible for appeal as provided by ordinance.


                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            CHRIS PARKER                   JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
 SPENCER J. COX             Interim Executive Director     Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                                         ADVISORY OPINION


        Advisory Opinion Requested By:                        Joseph White, Ironwood Real Estate, LLC

        Local Government Entity:                              Tooele County

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:                      Joseph White

        Type of Property:                                     Residential

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:                        April 30, 2020

        Opinion Authored By:                                  Richard B. Plehn, Attorney
                                                              Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                               ISSUE

        Does a third-party land use appeal of the Tooele County Planning Commission’s decision to
        approve a concept plan for a planned unit development have merit?


                                             SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

        A county is bound by the mandatory provisions of its land use regulations, and a land use
        authority must review land use applications under the land use regulations in effect at the time
        the application is submitted to the county for review and approval. While Tooele County may be
        in the process of amending its land use ordinance regarding Planned Unit Developments
        (PUDs)—for perceived deficiencies or otherwise—the existing scheme must still be applied to
        submitted applications, and interpreted in favor of a proposed use.

        The County’s existing PUD scheme treats an application for a planned development as a
        conditional use under a three-step approval process, and intentionally authorizes the planning
        commission to be flexible with certain aspects of existing zoning requirements, as deemed
        appropriate, and upon certain findings. Under the first step of approval, an applicant submits a
        Concept Plan identifying any use or lot characteristics of the PUD that may differ from existing
        zoning. If the County’s land use authority approves this concept plan, the applicant is then
entitled to submit a preliminary plan application that the land use authority must review
according to the approved concept and consider for approval under applicable standards for
conditional uses. In the final step of approval, the land use authority determines and certifies
compliance with the previously approved preliminary plan.

Here, Tooele County’s planning commission approved the applicant’s concept plan under the
first step of the PUD approval process. A third-party group appealed the County’s approval of the
plan. The third-party appeal fails to prove any error by the planning commission in approving the
concept plan. The decision at issue in the Advisory Opinion approved the applicant’s concept
plan. Accordingly, the County must now review the approved concept plan for code compliance
under the preliminary and final plan steps of the approval process.


                                              REVIEW

A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Title 13, Chapter 43, Section
205 of the Utah Code. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty
to exhaust administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a
land use application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an
issue. It is hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a
fair and neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as
explained at the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving
such issues in the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Joseph White on October 29, 2019. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Marilyn K. Gillette, Tooele County Clerk, 47
South Main, #318, Toole, Utah 84074 on October 31, 2019.


                                            EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Joseph White, received October 29, 2019.
     2. Additional information from applicant, received November 19, 2019 and December 2,
        2019.
     3. Letter from Scott A. Broadhead, Tooele County Attorney, received December 4, 2019.


                                          BACKGROUND

Joseph White owns a little over 100 acres in unincorporated Erda, Tooele County. Mr. White has
proposed a development named Sunset Acres that involves one (1) acre residential lots forming
the perimeter of the property, smaller residential lots clustered toward the center of the

Advisory Opinion – White/Tooele County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2020 Page 2 of 10
development down to approximately 0.50 acres, some designated open space, and three large
agricultural “preservation” parcels, each with a single farmhouse residence, that provide a 500-
foot buffer between the perimeter road and the interior residential lots.

The property is located in the County’s RR-5 (Rural Residential, 5 Acre Minimum) Zone, which
lists a Planned Unit Development (PUD) as a conditionally permitted use. Tooele County’s Land
Use Ordinance provides a three-step approval process for approving PUD projects as conditional
uses. The Ordinance grants the planning commission authority to modify or waive certain code
requirements as applied to the project, upon certain findings.

Mr. White submitted an application for the development as a PUD under the first step of
approval, or Concept Plan. The planning staff reviewed the concept plan application, and found it
to be consistent with neighboring uses and the general plan. Planning staff also determined the
proposal was compliant with the Tooele County Land Use Ordinance. Planning staff had not
received any public comments and did not identify any detrimental impacts that would require
imposition of mitigating conditions. Staff therefore recommended approval of the concept plan to
the planning commission, subject to the lone condition that the applicant provide information
regarding planned water and sewer utilities, as well as additional details on design and
maintenance of the agricultural preservation parcels, at the preliminary and final plan steps of the
approval process. After staff completed the report, the County received 27 emails from the public
regarding various concerns with, and dislike of, the proposed development.

At the September 4, 2019 planning commission meeting, following public comment, the
planning commission approved the concept plan application subject to the staff’s recommended
condition that the applicant provide additional information at the preliminary and final plan steps
for approvals. The planning commission also added a condition that a stipulation be attached to
the deeds of property that grantees acknowledge and accept the smells, activity, etc., of farming
and agricultural use. The planning commission included a final condition suggesting that, to
improve transportation, the developer should look at adding two stub roads to the west side of
the property.

Following the planning commission meeting, a group of third-party county residents filed an
appeal (“Appeal”) to the Tooele County Commission challenging the planning commission’s
approval of the concept plan application. Specifically, the third party group raised the following
points on appeal: (1) that the planning commission ignored comments from the City Attorney
that a rezone should be required as a condition for approval, and the suggestion that the matter be
tabled for a later date; (2) that the existing chapter of the Tooele County Land Use Ordinance on
PUD’s is knowingly deficient; (3) that the planning commission engaged in ‘spot-zoning’; (4)
that a submitted traffic study was inadequate; (5) that the PUD application contained procedural
violations, and (6) that the official minutes did not accurately reflect the concerns raised by
citizen comments.

The Tooele County Commission heard the appeal on November 19, 2019 and took the matter
under advisement, but has yet to issue a decision. Mr. White has requested an Advisory Opinion
from this Office to determine whether there is any merit to the third-party appeal.


Advisory Opinion – White/Tooele County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2020 Page 3 of 10
                                                    ANALYSIS

The County Land Use Development and Management Act (LUDMA) provides that any person
adversely affected by the land use authority's1 decision administering or interpreting a land use
ordinance may, within the time period provided by ordinance, appeal that decision to an appeal
authority by alleging that there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination
made by the land use authority in the administration or interpretation of the land use ordinance.2

In reviewing a land use decision on appeal, a court will presume the decision is valid and will
only overturn the decision if it is arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.3 An administrative decision,
such as the one at issue in this opinion, is arbitrary and capricious if the decision is not supported
by substantial evidence in the record. A decision is illegal if it is based on an incorrect
interpretation of a land use regulation or contrary to law.

This opinion will address whether any of the arguments raised in the Appeal meritoriously allege
an error in the decision of the Tooele County Planning Commission in the administration or
interpretation of the Tooele County Land Use Ordinance, such that the decision to approve the
concept plan was arbitrary and capricious, or illegal.

     I.          Tooele County’s Regulatory Scheme for Planned Unit Developments

The proposed land use application subject to the Appeal is Mr. White’s Concept Plan application
for a Planned Unit Development (“PUD”). Part of the issues raised in the Appeal centers around
the allegation that Tooele County’s current PUD regulations are deficient, as the County appears
to be in the process of working out a new regulatory scheme for PUDs.

However, this regulatory overhaul has not yet occurred, and the application must be reviewed
under the laws in effect at the time the application was submitted. LUDMA gives counties broad
discretion in how to address land development through ordinances, resolutions, rules, and other
land use controls. Once these controls are enacted, zoning authorities are bound by the terms and
standards of those ordinances and are not at liberty to make land use decisions in derogation
thereof.4 Review of a land use application is an administrative decision in which the mandatory
provisions and existing standards of relevant land use ordinances must be applied 5—for better or
for worse.

Under the current scheme, the Tooele County Land Use Ordinance treats a PUD as “a distinct
category of conditional use,”6 and a PUD is listed as a conditional use within the RR-5 Zone.7
Tooele County defines a PUD to mean “an integrated design for development of residential,
commercial or industrial uses, or limited combinations of such uses, in which the density and
1
  Here, the land use authority is the County’s planning commission.
2
  UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-703(1).
3
  UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-801.
4
  Thurston v. Cache County, 626 P.2d 440, 444-45 (Utah 1981).
5
  UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-508(2).
6
  TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 9-1.
7
  TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 15-5-3.7.
Advisory Opinion – White/Tooele County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2020 Page 4 of 10
location regulations of the district in which the development is situated may be varied or waived
to allow flexibility and initiative in site and building design and location, in accordance with an
approved plan and imposed requirements.”8

A PUD appears to be apart and separate from a “Planned Community” development, for which
the Planned Community Zone (P-C) has been created as a regulatory tool to re-zone large areas
of land within the County according to a specific plan.9 Development under the Planned
Community scheme must contain a minimum of 150 acres and may contain multiple owners that
combine their properties for planning and development purposes.10 In contrast, a PUD is held
under single ownership and qualified by a different minimum area development size for each
zoning district. For the RR-5 district, a PUD must comprise a minimum of 20 acres.11

PUDs are governed by Chapter 9 of the Tooele County Land Use Ordinance, which provides
three approval steps: (1) a Concept Plan, (2) Preliminary Plan approval, and (3) Final Plan
approval.12

The first application step of approval is the Concept Plan. In accordance with the overall
regulatory scheme for PUDs, this step appears to be intended to identify any aspect of the
proposal regarding “density and location regulations”13 that “would [not] be possible through
strict application of other county land use ordinances and regulations,”14 and would require the
planning commission to exercise its given authority to “change, alter, modify or waive [certain]
provisions of [the land use] ordinance as they apply to the proposed planned development.”15

At the concept plan step, an application must only include scaled drawings and number totals for
proposed dwelling units, lot sizes and land areas, densities and intensity of each use.16 If
approved or conditionally approved, the commission adopts a motion “establishing the land uses
and density for the proposed [PUD] and authorize[s] the applicant to submit an application for
preliminary plan consistent with the approved concept plan.”17 In other words, if the concept is
approved with any land uses and densities that differ from the zoning district in which the PUD
is located, this approval is an express exercise of the planning commission’s authority under
Chapter 9 to modify or waive those existing zoning restrictions in the interest of flexibility.18

The approval of the concept plan leads to the second step “preliminary approval” application. In
this step, substantive review of the project occurs under the County’s conditional use standards—
with the specific modifications or waivers of density and location restrictions approved in the
step one concept plan. At the preliminary approval step, the planning commission receives a

8
  TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 2-2(194).
9
  TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 31-2.
10
   TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 31-4.
11
   TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 9-3.
12
   TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 9-5.
13
   See TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 2-2(194).
14
   See TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 9-1(1).
15
   See TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 9-2(1).
16
   TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 9-6(2).
17
   TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 9-6(5).
18
   See TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE §§ 9-1 thru 9-2(1).
Advisory Opinion – White/Tooele County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2020 Page 5 of 10
more in-depth proposal including detailed architectural plans, a traffic impact analysis, technical
drawings, and a preliminary plat for subdivision. The planning commission reviews these
materials under the existing conditional use standards according to the approved concept, and
approves, conditionally approves, or denies the PUD as a proposed conditional use. Lastly, the
“final approval” step of the approval process determines and certifies compliance with any
conditions imposed at the preliminary approval.

The application submitted by Mr. White, approved by the Planning Commission, and subjected
to an appeal by a third-party group was for a concept plan under the first step of the PUD
approval process. Therefore, the only decision subject to review in the Appeal is the planning
commission’s decision to approve the concept of the PUD involving certain modification and
waiver of density and lot size requirements of the RR-5 zone. It is with this understanding of the
nature of the decision made by the planning commission under the current regulatory scheme for
PUDs that we now review whether the arguments raised on appeal have proved any error in the
planning commission’s decision.

     II.         The Appeal Has Not Proved An Error In the Planning Commission’s Decision

The Appeal challenging the planning commission’s approval of the concept plan for Mr. White’s
proposed PUD makes several arguments. As detailed below, the Appeal has not proved any error
such that the decision would be considered arbitrary and capricious or illegal.

     1. Tooele County Attorney’s Comments at the Meeting.

The Appeal first points out that the County Attorney suggested that the property first undergo a
rezone as a condition, and that the planning commission table the matter.

A land use authority’s decision to approve or deny a conditional use permit application is an
administrative land use decision. An administrative decision involves the application of existing
land use ordinances. It would not be appropriate to condition the approval of a proposed and
already allowed conditional use on a future rezone—or change—to existing land use ordinances.
The County must simply determine whether the proposed application complies with existing
requirements.

Additionally, the planning commission is under no obligation to continue the matter at the
County Attorney’s suggestion so long as there is sufficient evidence in the record to render the
appropriate decision. Therefore, the planning commission did not err by failing to adopt the
County Attorney’s suggestions.

     2. Alleged Deficiencies with Chapter 9 on Planned Unit Developments.

The Appeal alleges that Tooele County’s existing chapter on PUDs is knowingly deficient and is
in the process of being revised. The appeal argues that because of these deficiencies, it would be
more appropriate that the application be denied and re-submitted under what is alleged to be the
“more comprehensive” Chapter 31 Planned Community Zone (P-C).


Advisory Opinion – White/Tooele County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2020 Page 6 of 10
However, as discussed above, a “Planned Community” development is distinct from a PUD
under the Tooele County Land Use Ordinance, and does not apply to Mr. White’s property. For
example, a rezone for a Planned Community requires a minimum of 150 acres, whereas the
property in question comprises a little over 100 acres. The Appeal also fails to specify the
purported deficiencies with Chapter 9 or how these deficiencies resulted in any error of the
County’s approval of the conditional use permit. Ultimately, as Chapter 9—as it exists—is the
appropriate chapter applicable to the proposed PUD, the Appeal has not identified any error of
the planning commission in applying Chapter 9 over any other provisions of the ordinance or
version thereof.

     3. Allegations of ‘Spot-zoning’.

The Appeal alleges that Tooele County’s regulatory scheme has resulted in the planning staff and
planning commission engaging in “spot zoning” on a consistent basis, citing Mr. White’s
proposal in addition to examples of other developments. The Appeal also mentions instances
where the County has denied certain proposals on the basis of spot-zoning.

Under Utah law, spot zoning occurs when a zoning authority either grants a special privilege or
imposes a restriction on a particular small property that is not otherwise granted or imposed on
surrounding properties in the larger area, “without regard to a unified plan.”19 Under this legal
standard, it is not impermissible spot zoning when a land use ordinance allows for certain
modifications to zoning requirements as part of a general or comprehensive plan.20

A county’s legislative body has broad discretion in establishing zoning regulations. “The wisdom
of the zoning plan, its necessity, and the nature and boundaries of the district to be zoned are
matters which lie solely within the discretion of the [the legislative body].”21 “Though a
[legislative body] may have a myriad of competing choices before it, the selection of one method
of solving the problem in preference to another is entirely within the discretion of the [legislative
body]; and does not, in and of itself evidence an abuse of discretion.”22

The current regulatory scheme for PUDs under Tooele County’s Land Use Ordinance treats a
PUD proposal as a conditional use to be reviewed by the planning commission. This normally is
an administrative decision involving strict application of legislatively enacted regulations. Here,
the legislatively enacted land use ordinance grants the Planning Commission authority to make
modifications to existing zoning regulations if deemed appropriate, and upon certain findings.

The Utah Court of Appeals has analyzed the issue of spot zoning under PUD ordinances nearly
identical to the one at issue here in Donner Crest Condo. Homeowners' Ass'n v. Salt Lake City.23

19
   Marshall v. Salt Lake City, 105 Utah 111, 126-127, 141 P.2d 704, 711 (Utah 1943) (emphasis added).
20
   See id.
21
   Tolman v. Logan City, 2007 UT App 260, ¶ 14, 167 P.3d 489 (quoting Crestview-Holladay Homeowners Ass'n,
Inc. v. Engh Floral Co., 545 P.2d 1150, 1152 (Utah 1976)) (alterations to original omitted).
22
   Id. (quoting Bradley v. Payson City Corp., 2003 UT 16, ¶ 24, 70 P.3d 47) (internal quotation omitted).
23
    2005 UT App 163 (unpublished). In Donner Crest, third parties challenged the Salt Lake City Planning
Commission’s approval of a PUD, claiming the City used the regulatory process “to essentially grant a variance”
that was illegal. Similar to Tooele County’s Land Use Ordinance, SLC’s ordinance likewise treated PUDs as “a
distinct category conditional use,” likewise required a minimum size for each zoning district, and likewise
Advisory Opinion – White/Tooele County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2020 Page 7 of 10
In concluding that under such a regulatory scheme the approval of the PUD was not illegal, the
Court noted that “the issuance of a special use permit[24] does not present an issue of spot zoning
because it involves not a change of zone but rather a permitted use when certain conditions
specified in the ordinance are met.”25

The authority delegated by the Tooele County Land Use Ordinance to the planning commission
to make modification or waivers to existing zoning requirements is only approved upon finding
that the PUD: “will achieve the purposes for which a planned development may be approved…”
and “will not violate the general purposes, goals and objectives of this chapter and of any plans
adopted by the planning commission or the county commission.”26

In approving the concept plan for the PUD, the planning commission adopted the
recommendations of the planning staff, which had concluded that the concept was cohesive with
surrounding uses in the area,27 the Tooele County General Plan,28 and the Tooele County Land
Use Ordinance. While the Appeal disagrees and argues the PUD is not cohesive with the
surrounding uses in the area, the Appeal does not rebut the planning staff’s findings that the
property was surrounded by like residential uses of roughly similar parcel size.29

Because the planning commission acted within authority expressly delegated to it as part of a
regulatory scheme allowing modification of zoning requirements for PUDs upon certain
findings, and was supported by evidence in the record which has not been rebutted, the resulting
decision to approve the concept plan was not an instance of illegal spot-zoning.

     4. Alleged Inadequacy of Submitted Traffic Study

The Appeal alleges that the submitted traffic study does not support the planning commission’s
finding of “no detrimental impact” of the proposed PUD. This does not amount to an error in the
planning commission’s decision to approve the concept plan. First, a traffic study is not
necessarily required as part of the concept plan step of approval, but is rather considered at the
preliminary approval review step. Second, while a traffic study may have already been available
at this step, the planning commission does not appear to have relied on the study in making its
decision to approve.

This is supported by the fact that the planning commission’s minutes stated that the
transportation plan “can be improved” and suggested the applicant look at adding two stub roads
for consideration in later steps for approval. Because the traffic study is not necessary until the

delegated authority to the Planning Commission to “change, alter, modify [,] or waive any provisions of [the
Ordinance] or of the City’s subdivision regulations as they apply to the proposed planned development.” 2005 UT
App 163, pg. 3-7.
24
   “Special use permit” is another name for a conditional use permit.
25
   Donner Crest, 2005 UT App 163, at pg. 10.
26
   TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 9-2(2).
27
   It was identified that the property was surrounded by several legally nonconforming (in existence prior to zoning)
parcels in the RR-5 zone that were typically 1 acre in size, as well as some areas of parcels that had been recently
rezoned RR-1.
28
   The Future Land Use Map of the Tooele County General Plan Update 2016 indicated the property is located
within a large geographical area anticipated to be comprised of parcels as small as one acre.
29
   See Comments 27-28, supra.
Advisory Opinion – White/Tooele County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2020 Page 8 of 10
preliminary approval step, and was not relied upon by the planning commission in approving the
concept plan, any inadequacy of the traffic plan does not amount to any error in the
commission’s decision to approve the concept plan.

     5. Alleged Procedural Violations of Chapter 9-4.

The Appeal alleges that the planning staff failed to comply with Chapter 9-4 of the Tooele
County Land Use Ordinance, which provides that before submitting a PUD application, the
applicant is to participate in a pre-application conference with the zoning administrator, county
planner, county engineer, sheriff’s department, fire district, and the health department to enable
the applicant to present the concept of the proposed PUD and discuss the procedures and
standards for approval.30 The required conference appears to solely benefit the application
process itself. It is “intended to facilitate the filing and consideration of a complete filing,” and
“no representation by [county officials] during such conference shall be binding upon the county
with respect to the application subsequently submitted.”31

The Appeal alleges that Mr. White and county officials did not do the preconference as required,
and went straight to the PUD application.32 While Chapter 9 of the Tooele County Land Use
Ordinance allows the planning commission to waive certain zoning regulations as they apply to a
proposed PUD, Chapter 9 expressly provides that “[n]o change, alteration, modification or
waiver authorized by this chapter shall authorize . . . a modification with respect to any standard
established by this chapter.”33

Because Chapter 9 states that prior to submitting an application, “an applicant shall participate in
a pre-application conference,”34 the meeting is clearly mandatory. However, the Appeal has not
identified what error, if any, is attributed to the planning commission’s decision that directly
resulted from the failure to have a pre-application meeting. For purposes of land use appeal, it is
not enough to simply allege an error in interpreting or administrating a land use ordinance.
Rather, the erroneous interpretation or administration must manifest as an error in the resulting
decision itself, such that the decision adversely affects the party filing the appeal.35
30
   TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 9-4(1)-(2).
31
   TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 9-4(2).
32
   While material submitted by Mr. White for this opinion appears to suggest that perhaps the meeting did occur in
conjunction with a pre-application conference for another project, the provided material does not clearly establish
that, as it shows a request for a pre-application conference for another project specifically. The Appeal states that a
Planning Commission member admitted in a meeting that the County felt that with all of Mr. White’s other
applications that this PUD application would be okay. At exactly which meeting this comment was made is not
referenced, and the comment is not found in the available Planning Commission minutes regarding this project.
However, the Planning Staff Report for this PUD at least makes several references to communications Mr. White
had with the planning staff regarding this project, specifically. The meeting minutes also indicate that Mr. White had
obtained approval for the project from the fire department, and suggests he had discussions with the Sheriff, both of
whom are listed participants of the pre-application conference.
33
   TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 9-2(2).
34
   TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 9-4(1) (emphasis added).
35
   See Busche v. Salt Lake County, 2001 UT App 111, ¶ 17, 26 P.3d 862 (finding four basic elements to a claim for
land use appeal: (1) a person adversely affected, (2) a decision administering or interpreting a zoning ordinance, (3)
a decision applying the zoning ordinance, and (4) an error in the decision administering or interpreting the zoning
ordinance); see also Potter v. S. Salt Lake City, 2018 UT 21, ¶ 29, 422 P.3d 803 (“we do not overturn a decision of a
lower court or administrative body upon a mere showing of error; proof of prejudice is typically required”).
Advisory Opinion – White/Tooele County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2020 Page 9 of 10
Because the party seeking appeal bears the burden of proving that the land use authority erred,
and the Appeal associates no error in the decision due to any failure to hold the pre-application
conference, the Appeal has not proved a valid error by the procedural violation.

     6. Allegations that Official Minutes Were Inaccurate.

The Appeal takes issue with the official meeting minutes from the planning commission meeting,
in that the concerns raised by 17 citizens who spoke against the project were inaccurately
reduced to a one paragraph summary. However, official meeting minutes only serve to document
what occurred at the meeting. They have no bearing on what was actually decided. Because the
Appeal only takes issue with the accuracy of the minutes, but does not allege that the planning
commission erred in its decision in light of the comments actually made at the meeting, the
alleged error of the meeting minutes does not present any appealable error.


                                          CONCLUSION

The nature of the decision of the Tooele County Planning Commission subject to appeal is
limited to the approval of a concept plan for a planned unit development. The appeal is likewise
limited to the nature of the decision made, and must prove that the planning commission erred.
Because the third-party appeal failed to prove that the planning commission’s decision approving
the concept plan was made in error under the County’s current regulatory scheme for planned
unit developments, the appeal is without merit, and the County must allow the applicant to
proceed to the next steps of the approval process.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – White/Tooele County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 30, 2020 Page 10 of 10
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in UTAH CODE § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:


                              Marilyn K. Gillette, Tooele County Clerk
                              Tooele County
                              47 South Main, #318,
                              Toole, Utah 84074


On May 1, 2020, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the governmental
office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid, certified mail,
return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                              ______________________________________________________
                              Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
