                       Advisory Opinion 277
                          Parties: Tooele County School District / Tooele City
                                           Issued: October 16, 2023

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                         Application Review Fees

                                Compliance With Land Use Regulations


A city’s ability to otherwise require public agencies to pay a fee for a development
service that the public agency does not itself provide is not applicable in the
context of school districts, because state statute provides that school districts may
only be required to pay for impact fees, certain inspection fees, and certain costs
for roadways or sidewalks. It was therefore improper for Tooele City to require the
Tooele County School District to pay a conditional use application fee and site
plan review fee in regards to the District’s development of its property.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          (801) 530-6391
                      PO Box 146702                                                       1-877-882-4662
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                            www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                propertyrights@utah.gov
                             State of Utah
                             Department of Commerce
   SPENCER J. COX            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
      Governor
                             MARGARET W. BUSSE        JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON          Executive Director        Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION


         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                Terry Christensen

         Local Government Entity:                      Tooele City

         Applicant for Land Use Approval:              Tooele County School District

         Type of Property:                             School District Facilities

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                October 16, 2023

         Opinion Authored By:                          Richard B. Plehn, Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       ISSUES

         Has Tooele City lawfully imposed certain application and review fees on Tooele County School
         District’s development of a bus transportation facility?

                                          SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

         State statute requires school districts to conform to certain land use regulations and exempts them
         from others in developing or using its land.

         A city’s ability under state law to impose certain development-related fees on various public
         agencies, generally, is not fully applicable to school districts where state law has provided more
         explicit direction on exactly what kinds of fees may be imposed on school district development.
         Namely, a city’s ability to otherwise require public agencies to pay a fee for a development service
         that the public agency does not itself provide is not applicable in the context of school districts,
         because state statute provides that school districts may only be required to pay for impact fees,
         certain inspection fees, and certain costs for roadways or sidewalks. It was therefore improper in
         this case for Tooele City to require the Tooele County School District to pay a conditional use
         application fee and site plan review fee in regards to the District’s development of its property.
                                                                  EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

      1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Terry Christensen, on behalf of the Tooele
         County School District, received on January 24, 2023.
      2. Email responses from Roger E. Baker, on behalf of the City of Tooele, from March 28,
         2023 and May 17, 2023.

                                                                 BACKGROUND

The relevant facts are short, and not in dispute. Tooele County School District (TCSD) owns
property at 86 N Onyx in Tooele City, adjacent to the TCSD administration building, on which
TCSD has recently constructed the new Tooele County School District Transportation Center. As
part of that development, Tooele City (“City”) required TCSD to obtain a conditional use permit
for a fueling station, as well as to submit a site plan for review and pay certain application and
review fees in accordance with City ordinances.

The fees at issue include a $1,200 fee for City’s review of TCSD’s subdivision plat, and a $600
fee for the City’s review of TCSD’s conditional use permit application. The two fees are standard
city fees, calculated to recoup a portion of the city’s cost to review development applications.

TCSD believes that the fees are prohibited by law, but has paid the fees under protest to allow the
development to move forward, and has asked for an Advisory Opinion as to whether the City may
lawfully impose these fees on the school district’s development.

                                                                  ANALYSIS

The core of this dispute revolves around the interpretation of separate sections of Utah’s Land Use,
Development, and Management Act (“LUDMA”), wherein the state legislature has addressed the
authority of political subdivisions to regulate the development of land found within its borders by
certain public agencies, including the imposition of certain fees in the development review process,
and the application of these sections to the development of school district property, specifically.

First, Section 305 of LUDMA provides that “[e]ach county, municipality, school district, charter
school, special district, special services district, and political subdivision of the state shall conform
to any applicable land use ordinances of any municipality when installing, constructing, operating,
or otherwise using any area, land, or building situated within that municipality.” UTAH CODE § 10-
9a-305(1) (emphasis added).

Second, Section 510 of LUDMA also provides that:

A municipality may not impose on or collect from a public agency any fee associated with the
public agency’s development of its land other than:
        (a) . . . a fee for a development service that the public agency does not itself provide;
        (b) . . . a hookup fee; and
Advisory Opinion – Tooele County School District / Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 16, 2023 Page 2 of 6
            (c) an impact fee for a public facility . . . .

Id. § 10-9a-510(6). LUDMA defines “public agency” to include “school district.” Id. § 10-9a-
103(51)(c).1

However, for school districts, specifically, Section 305 of LUDMA provides further guidance
regarding which local ordinances are “applicable” to school districts when “constructing,
operating, or otherwise using” land within the municipality. Each party has interpreted Section 305
to draw different conclusions as to whether the City has authority to impose certain fees on TCSD’s
development.

Section 305 states that, “[e]xcept as provided [within that section], a school district or charter
school is subject to a municipality’s land use ordinances.” Id. § 10-9a-305(2). Subsection (3) then
provides that “[a] municipality may not . . . require a district or charter school to pay fees not
authorized by this section.” Id. § 10-9a-305(3)(c).

TCSD argues that “this section” refers to Section 305, and that the only other references to
allowable “fees” in Section 305 applicable to school districts are, as follows:

      •     Section 305(3)(b): “a municipality may . . . require a school district . . . to participate in
            the cost of [a] roadway or sidewalk . . . that is . . . reasonably necessary for the safety of
            school children . . . located on or contiguous to school property . . . [that] is required to
            connect an otherwise isolated school site to an existing roadway.” (emphasis added);
      •     Section 305(3)(d): “a municipality may . . . provide for inspection of school construction
            or assess a fee or other charges for inspection . . . [if] the school district . . . is unable to
            provide for inspection by an inspector . . . .” (emphasis added);
      •     Section 305(3)(e): “a municipality may . . . require a school district . . . to pay [an] impact
            fee for an improvement project . . . [if] imposed as provided in Title 11, Chapter 36a, Impact
            Fees Act.”

TCSD therefore concludes that the only fees “authorized by this section [10-9a-305]” are (1)
impact fees, (2) charges for school building inspection when the district is unable to use its own
inspector, and (3) certain charges relating to roadways and sidewalks contiguous to school
property.

In reaching an opposite conclusion, the City notes that Section 305 further provides that a
“specified public agency”—which, similar to “public agency” in Section 510, is defined to include
a school district, see id. § 10-9a-103(63)(b)—that “intend[s] to develop its land shall submit to the
land use authority a development plan and schedule.” Id. § 10-9a-305(8). This development plan
and schedule required by Section 305(8) must include “sufficient detail to enable the land use
authority to assess,” among other things, “the specified public agency’s compliance with



1
  The parties agree that neither “hookup fee” or “impact fee” are relevant here. Therefore, the dispute is only whether
the site-plan review fee and conditional use application fee imposed by Tooele City are permissible “fee(s) for a
development service that [TCSD] does not itself provide,” as provided in Section 10-9a-510(6).


Advisory Opinion – Tooele County School District / Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 16, 2023 Page 3 of 6
applicable land use ordinances,” as well as “the amount of any applicable fee described in Section
10-9a-510.” Id.

In other words, the City concludes that whereas Section 305(8) references “any applicable fee
described in Section 10-9a-510,” then Section 510’s allowance for “a fee for a development service
that the public agency does not itself provide,” see id. § 10-9a-510(6), is necessarily a fee
“authorized by this section [10-9a-305].” Id. § 10-9a-305(3)(c). The City argues, then, that its site
plan review and conditional use application review are development services that the school
district does not itself provide, and are required by the City’s ordinances, they are properly assessed
against TCSD’s development.

The Utah Supreme Court has addressed the role of Utah courts in matters of statutory
interpretation, as follows:

            When faced with a question of statutory interpretation, our primary goal is to evince
            the true intent and purpose of the Legislature. We do so by looking at the best
            evidence of legislative intent, namely, the plain language of the statute itself. As
            part of this well-worn canon of statutory construction, we must read the plain
            language of the statute as a whole. Under this whole statute interpretation, we
            construe provisions in harmony with other provisions in the same statute and with
            other statutes under the same and related chapters. We do so because a statute is
            passed as a whole and not in parts or sections and is animated by one general
            purpose and intent. Consequently, each part or section should be construed in
            connection with every other part or section so as to produce a harmonious whole.

Archuleta v. St. Mark's Hosp., 2010 UT 36 (internal quotations and citations omitted).

Reading LUDMA sections 510 and 305 together as a harmonious whole, we conclude that
LUDMA precludes the City from assessing from TCSD the site plan review and conditional use
application fees in question.

First, Section 510 addresses a city’s general limitation on imposing development-related fees on
various kinds of “public agencies,” which beyond school districts, also includes “the federal
government; the state; a county, municipality, . . . special district, special service district, or other
political subdivision of the state; [and] a charter school.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-103(51).

Section 510, therefore, constitutes the general ceiling within which a city can legally assess any
development-related fee to a defined public agency. However, Section 305, in turn, provides more
explicit direction in the context of school districts, specifically. Utah Courts have held that “when
two statutory provisions appear to conflict, the more specific provision will govern over the more
general provision.” Grynberg v. Questar Pipeline Co., 2003 UT 8, ¶ 31. Section 510’s application
to all public agencies, generally, must necessarily yield to the specific provisions of Section 305
in the context of school districts.

The same is to be said for Section 305’s actual reference to compliance with Section 510. That is,
Section 305(8) refers to a “specified public agency’s” compliance with applicable land use
ordinances” and “any applicable fee described in Section 10-9a-510” (emphasis added). Again,

Advisory Opinion – Tooele County School District / Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 16, 2023 Page 4 of 6
the general reference to “specified public agency”—which not only includes school districts, but
also “the state” and “a charter school,” see id. § 10-9a-103(68)—must necessarily yield to any
more explicit provisions that govern school districts, specifically.

The key provision, then, is found in Section 305(3)(c), which states that a “municipality may not .
. . require a district or charter school to pay fees not authorized by this section.” In absence of
Section 305 entirely, Section 510 would already limit the City’s ability to impose any
development-related fees on a school district—as a public agency—to only three things (hookup
fees, impact fees, and fees for a development service that the public agency does not itself provide),
the same as any other public agency. However, the addition of Section 305 adds the starting
presumption that no fees may be required of a school district in particular, except where
specifically authorized by Section 305. This, we conclude, clarifies which ordinances/fees are then
“applicable” to school districts, specifically.

As alluded to by TCSD, then, the only school district-specific fees referenced in Section 305 are
(1) impact fees, (2) charges for school building inspection when the district is unable to use its
own inspector, and (3) certain charges relating to roadways and sidewalks contiguous to school
property.

According to the City’s proposed interpretation, however, if the provision in Section 305(3) that
“[a] municipality may not . . . require a district or charter school to pay fees not authorized by this
section,” were to include authorizing any and all fees found in Section 510 as applicable to school
districts, the result would be to render this provision in Section 305(3) as inoperative, or
superfluous, because Section 510 already constitutes a limit on development-related fees that can
be charged on any public agency, not just school districts. There would, then, simply be no
application for what Section 305(3) is intending to prohibit other than what is already prohibited
by Section 510 in relation to school districts. Utah courts, however, are to “give effect to every
word of a statute, avoiding any interpretation which renders parts or words in a statute inoperative
or superfluous.” State v. Stewart, 2018 UT 24, ¶ 12 (cleaned up).

As a result, the Legislature’s intent is best evidenced by interpreting Section 305(3)’s specific
prohibition on requiring school districts to pay fees not authorized by that section as providing
more specific restrictions on school district fees than what is already addressed by Section 510’s
restrictions on public agencies, generally. As such, Section 305(8)’s reference to a specified public
agency’s compliance with “applicable fee[s] described in Section 10-9a-510” (emphasis added),
does not include authorization to require a school district to pay for a “fee for a development
service” such as the site plan review and conditional use application review fees.

The only fees a city may assess on a development of school district property are, then, impact fees,
charges for school building inspection when the district is unable to use its own inspector, and
certain charges relating to roadways and sidewalks contiguous to school property. The City’s
requirement that TCSD pay for conditional use application fees and site plan review fees in
conjunction with the development of its transportation facility, then, was not lawful.

                                                                 CONCLUSION



Advisory Opinion – Tooele County School District / Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 16, 2023 Page 5 of 6
Utah’s Land Use, Development, and Management Act provides an upper limit on the kinds of fees
a city may assess on certain defined public agencies, which includes schools. The Act also
provides certain express exceptions for a school district’s compliance with certain city land use
regulations, including applicable fees. The Act provides explicit direction that fees applicable to
school districts do not include all the kinds of fees that may generally be assessed against other
types of defined public agencies. The Act expressly provides for the only types of applicable fees
that may be imposed on the development of school district property, which is limited to impact
fees, charges for school building inspection when the district is unable to use its own inspector,
and certain charges relating to roadways and sidewalks contiguous to school property.

Therefore, Tooele City may not lawfully require the Tooele County School District to pay
conditional use application fees or site plan review fees in connection with the district’s
development of its transportation facility.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Tooele County School District / Tooele City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 16, 2023 Page 6 of 6
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based
on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are
also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
