                     Advisory Opinion #231
                             Parties: Peterson House LLC / Morgan County
                                           Issued: October 30, 2020

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                Compliance With Land Use Ordinances

                                       Interpretation of Ordinances

                               Requirements Imposed on Development



Counties may withhold occupancy for an applicant’s failure to meet conditions
stated in state law, local code, or subdivision approval that are essential for the
public health, public safety, and general welfare of the occupants. The County
requires adequate fire protection before a building permit is issued. A subdivision
was approved for fire suppression either through service by the local water
company, or a community well of a certain fire-flow rate.

A lot owner obtained a building permit, but by the time a certificate of occupancy
was requested, the local water company was not servicing the subdivision’s fire
suppression system. Additionally, the culinary well on the lot was not built to fire
suppression standards. Because the property has no operational fire suppression
system as required by local ordinance, the County has not unreasonably withheld
occupancy for lack of adequate fire protection, as essential for public safety.


                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            CHRIS PARKER             JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director       Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION


        Advisory Opinion Requested By:                   Peterson House LLC

        Local Government Entity:                         Morgan County

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:                 Peterson House LLC

        Type of Property:                                Residential

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:                   October 30, 2020

        Opinion Authored By:                             Richard B. Plehn, Attorney
                                                         Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                          ISSUE

        Where construction of a single-family home was allowed to proceed nearly to completion after
        issuance of a building permit, may the County now withhold a certificate of occupancy based on
        a failure to comply with fire suppression standards?

                                             SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

        Counties may withhold occupancy for an applicant’s failure to meet conditions stated in state law,
        local code, or subdivision approval that are essential for the public health, public safety, and
        general welfare of the occupants. Morgan County requires adequate fire protection to be
        established by fully operational fire hydrants before a building permit is issued. A subdivision was
        approved for fire suppression either through service by the local water company, or a community
        well of a certain fire-flow rate.

        A lot owner obtained a building permit—including a fire protection plan approval—and completed
        construction of a home, passing inspections up to final inspection. But at the time a certificate of
        occupancy was requested, the local water company was not servicing the subdivision’s fire
        suppression system. Additionally, a personal well on the lot, though approved for culinary
        purposes, was not built to the fire suppression standards as conditioned in the subdivision approval.
        Because the property has no operational fire suppression system as required by local ordinance,
the County has not unreasonably withheld occupancy for lack of adequate fire protection, as
essential for public safety.

                                                          REVIEW

A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Title 13, Chapter 43, Section
205 of the Utah Code. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty
to exhaust administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a
land use application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue.
It is hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the
courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Heather Kann, Operations Manager for
Peterson House, LLC, on March 25, 2020. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to
Jann L. Farris, attorney for Morgan County, 48 Young Street, Morgan, Utah on March 25, 2020.

                                                         EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Heather Kann, Operations Manager for
         Peterson House, LLC, received March 25, 2020.
     2. Email from David Pitcher, Clear Creek Development (Developer), re: Additional
         information, received April 1, 2020.
     3. Email response from Jann L. Farris, Morgan County Attorney, dated April 7, 2020, with
         copy of Morgan County “Appeal Authority, Appeal of Planning Director Determination”
         dated February 20, 2020.
     4. Response from Heather Kann, “Overview of Complaint”, received May 27, 2020.
     5. Response from Morgan County – Planning and Development Services, received June 3,
         2020.
     6. Heather Kann rebuttal to Morgan Couny Response, received June 5, 2020.
     7. Email response from David Pitcher, received June 5, 2020.
     8. Email from David Pitcher with attached document, received June 6, 2020.
     9. Email from Heather Kann, received June 8, 2020.
     10. Email from Heather Kann with attached document, received July 17, 2020.

                                                        BACKGROUND1
1
  This Office has received hundreds of pages of documents and arguments from the parties involved, each asserting
to be an accurate version of the facts while taking issue with the opposing perspectives offered by the other parties.
Consequently, the factual background in this matter is heavily contested. This Office is not a fact-finding body and is
not equipped to resolve serious disputes of material facts. Therefore, we present a summary of the background of this
matter as found in existing public record or the extrinsic documents provided, and otherwise note the disputed facts
as alleged by the parties, as appropriate.
Advisory Opinion – Peterson House LLC / Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 30, 2020 Page 2 of 13
Clear Creek Development (“Developer”) is the developer of the Heather Meadows Subdivision
(“HMS”) in Morgan County, a minor subdivision consisting of seven total lots on two cul-de-sac
streets, with Lots 1-4 on one street, and the remaining lots on the other. Peterson House LLC, the
applicant of this request, is the owner of Lot 3 (“Applicant”). Morgan County is not a provider of
any public utilities; rather, when someone wishes to develop in the unincorporated areas of the
County, unless provided some other way, any needed water, sewer, and other utilities must be
obtained directly from utility companies that service the area.2

HMS was reviewed for preliminary/final plat approval at the May 25, 2017 Planning
Commission Meeting, where it was discussed that the subdivision would need a “Will Serve”
letter from the local water company, Peterson Pipeline Association (“PPA”), prior to preliminary
approval; the Commission therefore motioned to postpone the application.3 Developer had
inquired with PPA about providing water, but PPA responded that it was at capacity and unable to
provide any further memberships at the time.

In early 2018, the County Engineer wrote to the Planning Director that the HMS subdivision
plans had been modified since its initial review to provide culinary water service from individual
wells instead of a water system connection, but that Developer was continuing to pursue
connection with PPA, and that the plans showed both wells and culinary water pipes and service
connections.4 The Engineer recommended HMS be supplied with water from PPA, if feasible.5
PPA wrote a letter to the County stating that it was actively working with HMS to be able to
service water needs for the subdivision—though it made clear that the letter was not intended as
a “Will Serve” letter, but asked that the County continue to allow pending applications to remain
active while development agreements were put into place.6

The subdivision came back before the County Planning Commission on April 12, 2018. The
Planning Commission Staff report described HMS’s water source to be provided through wells
approved by the Weber-Morgan Health Department, and noted that for fire protection the
property was inside the Wildland Urban Interface Area.7 The Final Plat provided to the Planning
Commission showed both well zones and water line connections, and contained a signature box
for PPA.8 The Morgan County Planning Commission approved the HMS subdivision upon


2
       See     Building      Permit      Application     Process,      Morgan       County,      http://www.morgan-
county.net/DEPARTMENTS/Planning-and-Development/Building-Permits (last visited September 14, 2020) ("We
are NOT a public utility. All water and sewer connections will need to be made through the utility companies in your
area.”); see also, Utility Companies Operating In Morgan County, Jul 1, 2020, http://www.morgan-
county.net/Portals/0/Utility%20Company%20Info.pdf?ver=2020-07-01-153550-247
3
  Morgan County Planning Commission Agenda, May 25, 2017, page 3.
4
  Letter from John Bjerregaard, P.E., Wasatch Civil Consulting Engineering, to Lance Evans, Morgan County Planning
and Development Services Director, February 14, 2018; see also, Letter from John Bjerregaard, P.E., Wasatch Civil
Consulting Engineering, to Lance Evans, Morgan County Planning and Development Services Director, April 2, 2018.
5
  Letter from John Bjerregaard, P.E., Wasatch Civil Consulting Engineering, to Lance Evans, Morgan County Planning
and Development Services Director, April 2, 2018.
6
  Letter from Trevor Kobe, President Peterson Pipeline Association, to Morgan County Planning Department, March
13, 2018.
7
  Morgan County Planning Commission Staff Report, Heather Meadows Prelim/Final Plat, page 3, April 12, 2018.
8
  Morgan County Planning Commission Minutes, April 12, 2018, page 14.
Advisory Opinion – Peterson House LLC / Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 30, 2020 Page 3 of 13
certain conditions, including a receipt from the County Engineer determining proof of wet water
per county code, or, a ‘Will Serve’ letter from PPA.9

Developer submitted HMS Improvement Plans on September 2, 2018. The plans contained
separate notes for both culinary and fire suppression water needs. Specifically, culinary water
was noted as follows: “Preferred to have culinary water provided by Peterson Water, else wells
required”. As for fire suppression needs, the plans noted: “Preferred to have Fire Suppression
Water provided by Peterson Water, else NOA10 well w/1000 GPM for 2HR minimum
required.”11

On September 17, 2018, Developer emailed PPA to ask about servicing the HMS subdivision.
PPA responded that it was hoping to begin a test well within next 30 days, and if successful, PPA
should be able to provide ‘Will Serve’s.12 Developer had installed a water system that could
connect to PPA’s water lines as a “backup” to the wells in the hopes that they could come to an
agreement with PPA to use the lines. However, no agreement was reached. Therefore, Developer
and Applicant appear to have moved forward by relying solely on the wells for the water supply
for Lot 3.

On October 12, 2018, the HMS subdivision plat was recorded with signatures of all departments,
including the County Engineer, though the box for PPA’s signature, which was present at the
time of approval, was omitted from the document recorded with the County Recorder.13

Shortly after recording, the owner of Lot 3 applied for a building permit,14 and on October 25,
2018, received a Fire Protection Plan Approval, signed by Morgan County Fire Chief.15 The
County asserts that this approval was given because the Fire Chief believed that the fire
suppression system that had been installed was or would be serviced by PPA.16

On November 26, 2018, HMS was inspected in response to a request from Developer for
conditional acceptance. The County Engineer noted that among the remaining items for final
acceptance was obtaining and submitting an acceptance letter from the “culinary water
provider”.17 Developer responded asking for clarification, stating that HMS was approved for
wells, and that a water system had only been installed for possible future use, and was not the
intended water source.18 Nevertheless, Developer thereafter submitted a letter from PPA stating

9
  Id., at page 3.
10
   Neighborhood Owner’s Association
11
   Heather Meadows Improvement Plans, Sheet 3.
12
   Email from David Pitcher to Trevor Kobe, September 17, 2018 12:47pm, response from Trevor Kobe to David
Pitcher September 18, 2018, 03:11pm MDT.
13
   Heather Meadows Subdivision, Entry No. 146037, recorded October 12, 2018.
14
   On the application, the owner marked that the lot was “exempt” from the Wildland Urban Interface. See Morgan
Land Use Permit Application, dated October 15, 2018.
15
   Morgan Fire Protection Plan Approval, signed October 25, 2018.
16
   It is unclear if any actual test was performed, and also disputed whether the system was pressurized at that time. See
infra note 27.
17
    Letter from John Bjerregaard, P.E., Wasatch Civil Consulting Engineering, to Lance Evans, Morgan County
Planning and Development Services Director, November 27, 2018.
18
   David Pitcher, Request for Clarification of Inspection Report dated November 27, 2018 for Heather Meadow in
Peterson, November 29, 2018.
Advisory Opinion – Peterson House LLC / Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 30, 2020 Page 4 of 13
that Developer’s water system was installed and inspected per PPA standards, though no ‘Will
Serve’ has been issued for permission to use the system.19

Construction of a well on Lot 3 began in January 2019. After completion of the well, an
opportunity for membership with PPA became available, but Applicant states that because of the
investment made in the well system and additional costs that would be required to now connect
to the water system, Applicant turned down a membership with PPA. On March 12, 2019, the
Weber-Morgan Health Department approved the well for Lot 3 for culinary purposes; the
approval noted that “[t]he well yields 60 GPM with a 4-foot drawdown in 1 hrs.”20

On April 17, 2019, a building permit was approved and issued for Lot 3. The issued permit is
marked “Received” under “Water/Well Approval”, as well as marked “No” under “Wildland-
Urban Interface”, and “No” under “Fire Sprinklers Required?”.21 The County asserts that at the
time the permits were issued, it “believed” that the fire suppression system was operational.22

Shortly following the permit issuance, PPA sent an email to Developer and the Planning Director
stating that there had been some confusion with respect to fire protection for HMS; PPA
explained that it had previously been unable to provide any additional memberships to provide
water to HMS, but now was in a position to offer memberships, but made clear that it was still
not providing water service to any lots in HMS because no memberships had been purchased to
date.23 Following this email, PPA also sent an email to developer reiterating that it was willing to
accept the HMS water system, and to provide both water and fire protection, but first needed
commitments from the lot owners to purchase memberships.24

Since the issuance of the building permit in April 2019, construction continued on Lot 3, and
inspections were performed and passed, up to final inspection of the structure, without any
identified violations. But due to concerns raised that Developer’s fire hydrants were not
pressurized because PPA was not servicing the system, the County Council held a work meeting
to discuss the status of the development, how the building permits had been issued, and what
would be needed going forward for final approval.25

It was discussed that until the system was operational, or until the lot was determined to be
compliant with fire suppression requirements, no work should be allowed to continue on the
property. There was some discussion on utilizing fire hydrants on the street outside of the
subdivision. On September 19, 2019, the County Fire Chief sent a letter to developer stating that
the location and performance of existing fire hydrants outside of subdivision satisfied the fire
department’s needs for fire-fighting capabilities, but that the department would need to be

19
   Email from David Pitcher to Gina Grandpre and Lance Evans, CC John Bjerregaard, December 6, 2018, with
attached letter from C.J. Nix, Peterson Pipeline Assoc., to David Pitcher, dated November 30, 2018.
20
   Letter from Brett Bunderson, Division of Environmental Health, Weber-Morgan Health Department, Division of
Environmental Health, to Angels Rest Trust, dated March 12, 2019.
21
   Morgan County Building Permit #19-036, issued April 17, 2019.
22
   See supra note 15 and accompanying text; see also infra note 27.
23
   Email from Trevor Kobe to David Pitcher, Lance Evans, and Gina Grandpre, dated April 23, 2019.
24
   Email from Trevor Kobe to David Pitcher, dated April 29, 2019.
25
   Video, Morgan County Utah, Council Work Session Meeting August 20, 2019, YOUTUBE (streamed live Aug. 20,
2019), 0:00 – 29:00, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cnjgWiKhCDA.
Advisory Opinion – Peterson House LLC / Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 30, 2020 Page 5 of 13
notified if there are any changes in the performance or accessibility of the system.26 At some
point after this letter, at least one of these referenced fire hydrants was removed by PPA.27

On January 23, 2020, the Planning Director sent a letter to Developer notifying that no further
permits or Certificates of Occupancy would be issued until HMS’s fire suppression system is
charged with water. The letter claimed that the system was in place and charged by PPA when the
final plat was recorded but had since been terminated, and no longer met code requirements.
Applicant disputes that the system was pressurized at the time the plat was recorded, or at the
time the permits were issued, instead claiming that the water was not turned on until PPA did a
test in October 2019.28

Applicant filed an appeal with the local appeal authority challenging the County’s decision to
withhold final inspection or issue occupancy, and submitted a Request for an Advisory Opinion
on March 25, 2020 to determine whether the well on the property and the County’s prior
approvals entitles Applicant to a Certificate of Occupancy, and whether the County should be
estopped from enforcing its ordinances.

                                                        ANALYSIS

     I.          Limited Scope of this Advisory Opinion

Our Office is tasked with answering the question of compliance with applicable land use law.29 We
rely on the parties to provide us with the essential facts in order for us to answer those questions,
however, because our office is not equipped to be a fact-finder, we cannot resolve some issues
relating to the motivations, intent, and impacts of the parties’ respective actions. Certain claims or
defenses between the parties that rely on these more subjective factors, such as zoning estoppel,30
are beyond our Office’s ability to address—regardless of merit. Rather, our review is limited to
answering the narrower question involving compliance with state statutes, applicable local
ordinances, and associated Utah case law. 31

26
   Letter from Chuck Tandy, Morgan County Fire Chief, to David Pitcher, dated September 19, 2019.
27
   See Letter from Trevor Kobe, President Peterson Pipeline Association, to Lance Evans, Morgan County Planning
Department Director, February 20, 2020, page 3. In response to applicant’s local appeal, PPA issued a letter to the
Planning Director challenging the Fire Chief’s September 2019 letter approving the use of existing fire hydrants
outside of HMS. According to PPA, the letter was based on the fire chief being told that one fire hydrant outside of
HMS was within 250 feet of Lot 3. PPA disputed that this hydrant was in fact within 250 feet from Lot 3, but
additionally informed the County that the fire hydrant in question was non-working and had since been removed, and
would not be replaced at that location.
28
   Email from Trevor Kobe to David Pitcher, dated October 14, 2019. PPA states that it pressurized the water lines for
HMS and successfully completed a water test. PPA again reiterated that it was ready to accept ownership of the
Developer’s water lines so long as each lot owner purchased a membership in PPA to have access to culinary water
and fire protection using PPA infrastructure.
29
   UTAH CODE ANN. §13-43-205(1) (advisory opinions may be requested to determine compliance with express
sections of either the municipal or county Land Use Development and Management Acts, or the Impact Fee Act).
Additionally, our Office has jurisdiction in this matter pursuant to Utah Code Section 15A-5-202(d): “For development
regulated by a local jurisdiction's land use authority, the fire code official's interpretation of [State Fire Code] is subject
to the advisory opinion process described in Utah Code, Section 13-43-205.”
30
   See discussion, Part III(B), infra.
31
   Most disputes tend to be accompanied by highly charged emotions. It appears the present dispute is no exception.
When an objective dispute of perceived incompatible goals turns into subjective, interpersonal conflict, not only does
Advisory Opinion – Peterson House LLC / Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 30, 2020 Page 6 of 13
From a review of the factual background, it is undisputed that Peterson Pipeline Association (PPA)
is not providing water services to the Heather Meadows Subdivision (HMS). It is also undisputed
that the existing fire hydrant outside of the subdivision that might have otherwise been able to
service Lot 3 has been removed. So, the question for us is limited to whether Applicant is entitled
to a Certificate of Occupancy with the existing well on the property, as it relates to subdivision
approval and fire suppression requirements, and whether the County must allow, or may withhold,
occupancy.

We find that Applicant seriously misunderstood the distinct water standards required for fire
suppression needs as opposed to culinary water needs. This misunderstanding was greatly
compounded by the County’s repeatedly making assumptions that PPA would be servicing the
HMS subdivision and not accounting for Lot 3’s lack of an alternative water source for fire
suppression purposes. We conclude that the existing well does not comply with fire suppression
requirements. Because of this, Applicant has a completed home with no possibility for occupancy
without the cooperation of third-party providers, or without significant changes to the property and
further personal investment. Nevertheless, residential fire protection requirements are essential for
the safety and wellbeing of the structure’s occupants and the public, and are a basis for the County
to withhold occupancy until brought into compliance.

     I.          Applicable International Codes

As a threshold matter, Applicant argues that the International Residence Code (IRC) applies to
the structure built on Lot 3, and that because the IRC applies, the International Fire Code (IFC)
categorically does not apply, and that any Morgan County requirement for fire suppression is not
allowed under state law. Applicant is incorrect and misunderstands the relationship between the
IRC and the IFC, and the applicability of Morgan County’s ordinances.

Utah has adopted the 2015 edition of the International Residential Code (IRC), subject to
amendments found in the State Construction and Fire Codes Act.32 The structure on Lot 3, as a
single-family dwelling, is governed by the IRC.33 Applicant argues that because the home is
governed by the IRC, and the IRC has no requirements for fire suppression, any County fire
suppression ordinance is more restrictive than the State Construction Code and impermissible.34


the ability and likelihood of the parties to successfully managing and resolving the dispute diminish, but issues and
arguments start to detour from the ordinance compliance-based questions at hand. While many such arguments have
been presented in the parties’ submissions to this Office, this Opinion, as explained, will only address the questions
related to legal compliance.
32
   UTAH CODE ANN. § 15A-2-103(1)(b);
33
   2015 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE (IRC) § 101.2.
34
   See UTAH CODE ANN. § 15A-1-204(8). Applicant cites this provision for the belief that the County cannot adopt any
ordinances more restrictive than the state construction code. However, even if the State Construction code applied to
fire suppression standards, this very language cited contains an important exception in that Subsection (9) states that
a political subdivision may enforce an ordinance that was adopted or made effective before July 1, 2015, and for which
the political subdivision can demonstrate, with substantial evidence, that the ordinance is necessary to protect an
individual from a condition likely to cause imminent injury or death. All of the County ordinances in question were
adopted prior to this date, and as will be explained, local fire suppression standards directly relate to safety from fire
danger, and would therefore not be preempted by state code, by design.
Advisory Opinion – Peterson House LLC / Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 30, 2020 Page 7 of 13
The IRC rightly does not contain any fire suppression requirements, because such requirements
are governed by the State Fire Code as opposed to the State Construction Code. Utah’s State Fire
Code is the code “to which cities, counties, fire protection districts, and the state shall adhere in
safeguarding life and property from the hazards of fire and explosion.”35 Utah has adopted the
International Fire Code (IFC)36 except as amended by the State Fire Code Act.37 Though the
State Fire Code’s adoption of the IFC excludes appendices,38 it specifically allows Counties to
do so by ordinance.39

In regards to the relationship between the IRC and IFC, specifically, the State Fire Code Act
provides that the IFC only applies to structures built according to the IRC as follows:

           1. The construction and design provisions of this code apply only to premises
           identification, fire apparatus access, fire hydrants and water supplies, and
           construction permits required by Section 105.7.
           2. This code does not supersede the land use, subdivision, or development
           standards established by a local jurisdiction.
           3. The administrative, operational, and maintenance provisions of this code
           apply.40

Because the structure on Lot 3 is built according to the IRC, the State Fire Code dictates that the
IFC applies to this structure as it relates to fire suppression standards, such as fire hydrant and
water supply requirements.

Applicant cites a similar provision in the State Fire Code stating the County cannot adopt
ordinances more restrictive than the State Fire Code.41 However, as will be discussed below,
Morgan County’s fire suppression standards simply defer to the IFC as adopted, and do not
contain any specific standards that are more restrictive than the State Fire Code. Therefore,
Morgan County’s fire suppression ordinances are not in conflict with applicable state law.

     II.         County Water Standards

As Morgan County provides no public utilities, developers must provide for their own water,
sewer, and other utilities, which may be provided by utility companies that service the area. While
the same water source/provider is often used for both culinary and fire suppression, the water needs
for culinary purposes and fire suppression are distinct, and have separate requirements.

35
   UTAH CODE ANN. § 15A-1-403(1)(a)(i);
36
   Specifically, at the time of the Applicant’s application for a building permit (in late 2018), Utah had adopted the
2015 edition of the International Fire Code. The 2018 edition has since been adopted. See § 15A-5-103(1) (2019)
37
   UTAH CODE ANN. § 15A-5-103(1).
38
   Id.
39
   UTAH CODE ANN. § 15A-1-403(7)(c).
40
   UTAH CODE ANN. § 15A-5-202(1)(a) (emphasis added);
41
    Specifically, Applicant cites to Utah Code Section 15A-1-403(7)(b), which provides: “Except as provided in
Subsections (7)(c), (10), and (11), or as expressly provided in state law, a political subdivision may not, after December
1, 2016, enact or enforce a rule or ordinance that applies to a structure built in accordance with the [IRC], as adopted
in the State Construction Code, that is more restrictive than the State Fire Code.” UTAH CODE ANN. § 15A-1-403(7)(b)
(emphasis added).
Advisory Opinion – Peterson House LLC / Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 30, 2020 Page 8 of 13
     a. Culinary Water Standards

Each lot is required to have a culinary water supply available,42 but the Morgan County Code
chapter on subdivisions provides two options for culinary water use: This can come either through
a culinary water supply system,43 such as a membership with a water company, or, in the case of
subdivisions consisting of 8 lots or less, through individual or shared wells.44 When wells are
proposed to be shared between two or more lots, written approval from the Weber/Morgan County
health department is required at the time of preliminary plat application, and a maintenance
agreement between the lot owners is required prior to recordation.45

Wells must be “capable of providing 800 gallons per day (gpd) per equivalent residential
connection (ERC) for indoor culinary use and a minimum of three (3) gallons per minute (gpm)
per irrigated acre for outdoor use.”46 At the time of preliminary approval, the developer must
provide proof of wet water by drilling a test well to verify these standards, though this requirement
does not apply when the proposal is being served by an existing water company.47

When an approved culinary water supply system “is available or proposed,” the county “will
require to be installed, at the subdivider’s expense, water mains, valves, hydrants, service laterals,
meter yokes, boxes, lids, meters . . . and appurtenances to each lot within the subdivision” 48 at the
same gpd/gpm standards as those listed for wells, as referenced above. Water and connection rights
are required as a condition of approval for each lot.49 If provided by a culinary water system, the
signature of the water provider is required on the subdivision plat.50

In this case, the HMS subdivision was approved for two potential water sources for culinary use,
either membership through PPA, or else personal wells. When the final plat was recorded without
a signature block for PPA, it seemed clear that Developer intended to move forward with
personal/shared wells as a water source. So when the County later asked for a letter of acceptance
from the culinary water provider, Developer clarified that wells were the intended water source.
However, the well standards required for culinary purposes are much different than what would be
needed for fire suppression using wells.

     b. Fire Suppression Standards

Water needs for fire suppression are separate from culinary water needs. In addition to “water
storage and flow requirements for culinary and irrigation uses,” an “adequate supply of and access
to water for fire suppression” shall be provided to each lot in the subdivision.51 Morgan County’s
ordinances adopt the International Fire Code (IFC) as amended by Utah Code; In addition, Morgan

42
   MORGAN COUNTY CODE § 8-12-46(B).
43
   MORGAN COUNTY CODE § 8-12-46(B)(2).
44
   MORGAN COUNTY CODE § 8-12-46(B)(1).
45
   MORGAN COUNTY CODE § 8-12-46(B)(1)(b).
46
   MORGAN COUNTY CODE § 8-12-46(B)(1)(a).
47
   MORGAN COUNTY CODE § 8-12-24(F)(9).
48
   MORGAN COUNTY CODE § 8-12-46(B)(2).
49
   MORGAN COUNTY CODE § 8-12-46(B)(2)(c).
50
   MORGAN COUNTY CODE § 8-12-32(N)(5).
51
   MORGAN COUNTY CODE § 8-12-46(C).
Advisory Opinion – Peterson House LLC / Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 30, 2020 Page 9 of 13
County also specifically adopts the following appendixes to the IFC: Appendix B - fire flow
requirements for buildings; Appendix C - fire hydrant locations and distribution; Appendix D - fire
apparatus access roads; Appendix E - hazard categories; Appendix F - hazard ranking; Appendix
G - cryogenic fluids - weight and volume equivalents; and Appendix I - fire protection
systems/noncompliant conditions.52

The County’s standards provide that when water is supplied by a water company, required water
storage “shall be calculated by the cumulative requirements of culinary, irrigation, and fire
suppression requirements, but shall be no less than four hundred (400) gallons per equivalent
residential connection for indoor use, one thousand eight hundred thirteen (1,813) gallons of
storage for each irrigated acre, and one hundred twenty thousand (120,000) gallons for fire
suppression.”53

For those properties that do not have water supplied by a water company, however, the general
requirement of the code regarding fire suppression is that:

           All fire flow and water storage requirements for firefighting purposes shall meet
           the requirements of the adopted fire code and the adopted wildland urban interface
           code of the county, and shall be verified in writing by the local fire code official.
           All requirements shall be articulated as conditions of approval during the
           preliminary and final plat processes, and verified in the field by the fire code official
           during subdivision construction and subsequent building construction.54

The Structure on Lot 3 is a total of 6,155 square feet.55 For a single-family home that size, the text
of the IFC appears to require a fire-flow of 1,500 gpm at flow duration of 2 hours.56 However, the
IFC also allows the fire chief to reduce the fire-flow requirements for isolated structures or a group
of structures in rural areas or small communities where the development of full fire-flow
requirements is impractical.57

In this matter, the HMS plat was approved with a note on fire suppression as follows: “Preferred
to have Fire Suppression Water provided by Peterson Water, else NOA58 well w/1000 GPM for
2HR minimum required.”59 We have no information on how the County arrived at the
requirement for 1,000 gpm, specifically; but considering the IFC allows for flexibility by the fire
chief, and that the County’s requirement is more permissive, we will assume the County’s
standard of 1,000 gpm is not in dispute as an appropriate flow rate under applicable fire
suppression standards, but that the Applicant maintains a general dispute regarding the
applicability of any fire suppression standards to the property.


52
   MORGAN COUNTY CODE § 7-8-1.
53
   MORGAN COUNTY CODE § 8-12-46(B)(2)(a).
54
   Id.
55
   See Morgan County Building Permit Application #19-036, issued April 17, 2019: Basement-Unfinished 3423 sq. ft,
Main Floor 2296 sq. ft., Second Floor 436 sq. ft. (3423 + 2296 + 436 = 6,115).
56
   2015 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE (IFC) § B105.
57
   2015 IFC § B103.1.
58
   Neighborhood Owner’s Association.
59
   Heather Meadows Improvement Plans, Sheet 3.
Advisory Opinion – Peterson House LLC / Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 30, 2020 Page 10 of 13
Morgan County has specified fire suppression standards in its ordinances by adoption of the IFC
and its appendices, in accordance with the State Fire Code. Accordingly, the HMS subdivision was
given final approval with two fire suppression options, 1) water service through PPA, or else 2) a
community well with at least 1,000 gpm for duration of 2 hours. Because these requirements were
articulated as conditions of approval during HMS’s preliminary and final plat processes, these are
the standards that apply to Lot 3.

Morgan County code provides that it is unlawful for any person to receive a building permit until,
within the immediate vicinity of the requested construction, adequate fire protection is verified in
writing by the local fire code official that “[a]dequate fire protection is established by fire hydrants
which are fully operational and tested in the area of the subdivision where permits are requested,
if fire hydrants were required with the building and subdivision approval,” and all other fire
protection mechanisms are in place according to County code, the adopted fire code, and wildland
urban interface code.60

When applying for a building permit, Applicant received a written Fire Protection Plan Approval,
signed by the County Fire Marshall indicating compliance with fire protection water supply
standards. However, this approval was signed and issued months before construction on the well
began. It seems clear, then, that the approval did not refer to the well as a fire protection water
source, but rather the hydrant system that had been installed for possible connection to PPA’s
water. While it is disputed whether the hydrant system was, in fact, ever operational at the time
the fire protection approval was issued, it is certainly undisputed that the system is not currently
being serviced by PPA. As to the personal well on Lot 3, the applicant’s submittals reflect that
Weber-Morgan Health Department’s inspection of the well for culinary purposes noted that
“[t]he well yields 60 GPM with a 4-foot drawdown in 1 hrs,”61 far short of flow-rate required for
fire suppression.

     III.        Withholding of Occupancy

     a. Occupancy Standards

Morgan County Code provides that buildings requiring a building permit shall not be occupied
nor put into use until the building is inspected and found to be in compliance with the County’s
land use regulations and building codes.62 HMS was approved with two options for fire
suppression, 1) water service through PPA, or else 2) a community well with at least 1,000 gpm
for duration of 2 hours. It is clear that Lot 3 does not currently meet the fire suppression
standards required by ordinance and as conditioned in the final plat approval.

Utah’s Land Use Development and Management Act (“LUDMA”) provides that a County may not
withhold issuance of a certificate of occupancy, generally, because of an applicant's failure to
comply with a requirement that is not expressed: “(i) in the building permit or subdivision plat,
documents on which the building permit or subdivision plat is based, or the written record

60
   MORGAN COUNTY CODE § 8-12-8(D)(3) (emphasis added).
61
   Letter from Brett Bunderson, Division of Environmental Health, Weber-Morgan Health Department, Division of
Environmental Health, to Angels Rest Trust, dated March 12, 2019.
62
   MORGAN COUNTY CODE § 8-3-6(D).
Advisory Opinion – Peterson House LLC / Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 30, 2020 Page 11 of 13
evidencing approval of the land use permit or subdivision plat; or (ii) in [LUDMA] or the county's
ordinances.”63 Inversely, where an applicant fails to comply with a requirement that is so
expressed, the County may withhold occupancy, except that a County “may not unreasonably
withhold issuance of a certificate of occupancy where an applicant has met all requirements
essential for the public health, public safety, and general welfare of the occupants.”64

As Morgan County’s subdivision ordinance is enacted with the purpose of “secur[ing] safety
from fire, flood and other dangers,”65 including the imposition of fire suppression standards to
govern “conditions hazardous to life and property from fire,”66 these standards are therefore
“essential for the public health, public safety, and general welfare of the occupants.”67 Consistent
with state law, the withholding of occupancy contingent upon compliance with these standards is
not unreasonable.

     b. Zoning Estoppel

Applicant’s arguments in support of the Request for Advisory Opinion amount to a belief that,
regardless of the property’s lack of adequate fire protection, the County should nevertheless be
prohibited from withholding occupancy. The Applicant had, in fact, previously been approved for
a building permit and had received a Fire Protection Plan Approval signed by the County Fire
Marshall, stating that the property complied with IFC fire protection standards. The structure on
Lot 3 also appears to have passed periodic inspections during construction and allowed to be
completed up to final inspection before the County issued a stop work order.

“Zoning estoppel” prohibits a local government from changing its position concerning a land
development decision when a property owner has relied upon the government’s decision to the
owner’s detriment, and it would be unfair to allow the government to change its position.68
The relief afforded to parties through zoning estoppel is given by a court sitting in its capacity as
a court of equity. An equitable claim like zoning estoppel relies heavily on a factual record of the
parties’ actions, and even intentions,69 which, in this case, are heavily disputed. This office lacks
the tools, and more importantly, the authority, to provide an opinion regarding the applicability of
zoning estoppel. This does not, however, prevent the parties from considering the doctrine’s
potential applicability in the matter, and seeking resolution in light of it.

                                                        CONCLUSION

Morgan County’s fire suppression standards are essential for the safety of occupants and the
public, and the County may withhold occupancy on structures that do not comply with these
standards. Whether due to the actions of a third-party water company beyond the Applicant’s
control, or otherwise, the property does not have an operational fire suppression system, and does

63
   UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-508(1)(g).
64
   UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-508(1)(h).
65
   MORGAN COUNTY CODE § 8-12-2(D).
66
   MORGAN COUNTY CODE § 7-8-1(A).
67
   UTAH CODE ANN. § 17-27a-508(1)(g).
68
   See generally, Fox v. Park City for an overview of the zoning estoppel doctrine. 2008 UT 85, ¶ 36, 200 P.3d 182.
69
   See Utah Cty. v. Baxter, 635 P.2d 61, 65 (Utah 1981) (exceptional circumstances must be present for zoning estoppel,
such as the intentional discriminatory application of the ordinance).
Advisory Opinion – Peterson House LLC / Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 30, 2020 Page 12 of 13
not comply with Morgan County ordinances. Consequently, the County may withhold a certificate
of occupancy from the Applicant until the Applicant is able to comply with applicable code
requirements.

The question of whether the Applicant is entitled to occupy the property despite the lack of fire
suppression resulting from the County’s actions under a theory of zoning estoppel is beyond the
scope of this opinion. Regardless, it goes without saying that a fully constructed home without the
possibility of final occupancy is not likely an acceptable result for any person or entity involved
in this dispute. Accordingly, we encourage the parties to cooperate within the bounds of the law,
and without animus, to achieve an appropriate and acceptable solution to the outstanding fire
protection issues.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Peterson House LLC / Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 30, 2020 Page 13 of 13
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not constitute
legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of
Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may not
reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in UTAH CODE § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of Commerce,
Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as designated in that
database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:


                             Jann L. Farris
                             Morgan County Attorney
                             PO Box 886
                             48 West Young Street
                             Morgan, Utah 84050


On __________________________, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
