                     Advisory Opinion #210
                                     Parties: Nilson Homes, Plain City
                                          Issued: June 18, 2019

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                     Complete Land Use Application
                                         Pending Ordinances

State law requires a local government to review an applicant’s land use application
under the local ordinance in existence at the time the applicant submits a complete
application, unless the local government can show that an exception to the rule applies.

Here, the City argues that it formally initiated procedures to amend its ordinance before
applicant submitted a complete application on May 3, 2108, and that the City is therefore
not obligated to review applicant’s application under the Code as it existed on that date.
However, a correct interpretation of State law indicates that the City did not formally
initiate procedures to amend its ordinance until May 8, 2018—five days after applicant
submitted its complete application.

While the City may have had informal discussions in open meetings about the possibility
of changing its ordinances prior to applicant submitting a complete application, the City
did not formally initiate proceedings to amend the ordinance until it placed the matter on
a meeting agenda and provided notice to the public of the meeting. As indicated, this did
not occur until May 8, 2018. Consequently, the City must review applicant’s application
for development approval under the City Code as it existed on May 3, 2018 when
applicant submitted its application for development approval.


                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI     BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director    Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor



                                             ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:               Bruce L. Nilson of Nilson Homes

        Local Government Entity:                     Plain City

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:             Nilson Homes

        Type of Property:                            Residential

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:               June 18, 2019

        Opinion Authored By:                         Jordan S. Cullimore
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                      ISSUE
        Is Plain City required to review Nilson Homes’ land use application under the Plain City Code as
        it existed on May 3, 2018—the date on which the applicant submitted a complete application?

                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        State law requires a local government to review an applicant’s land use application under the
        local ordinance in existence at the time the applicant submits a complete application, unless the
        local government can show that an exception to the rule applies.

        Here, the City argues that it formally initiated procedures to amend its ordinance before Nilson
        Homes submitted a complete application on May 3, 2108, and that the City is therefore not
        obligated to review Nilson’s application under the Code as it existed on that date. However, a
        correct interpretation of State law indicates that the City did not formally initiate procedures to
        amend its ordinance until May 8, 2018—five days after Nilson submitted its complete
        application.

        While the City may have had informal discussions in open meetings about the possibility of
        changing its ordinances prior to Nilson submitting a complete application, the City did not
        formally initiate proceedings to amend the ordinance until it placed the matter on a meeting
        agenda and provided notice to the public of the meeting. As indicated, this did not occur until
        May 8, 2018. Consequently, the City must review Nilson’s application for development approval
under the City Code as it existed on May 3, 2018 when Nilson submitted its application for
development approval.

                                            REVIEW
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Bruce L . Nilson on August 16, 2018. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Plain City Mayor Jay Jenkins on August 16,
2018.

                                           EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion submitted by Bruce L. Nilson of Nilson Homes on
        August 16, 2018.
     2. Reply submitted by Brandon R. Richards, attorney for Plain City, on September 17, 2018.

                                          BACKGROUND
On May 3, 2018, Nilson Homes (Nilson) submitted to Plain City (the City) a conditional use
permit application seeking approval of a Planned Residential Unit Development (PRUD) project,
which, at that time, was an allowed conditional use under the Plain City Code (the City Code).
On July 12, 2018, after holding additional meetings concerning the matter, the Plain City
Planning Commission voted to recommend to the City Council that the Council amend the City
Code to eliminate the provision allowing PRUD projects, including the type proposed by Nilson.
On July 19, 2018, the City Council voted to amend the City Code accordingly.

On July 26, 2018, the City informed Nilson that, because of the City Council’s decision to
eliminate PRUDs from the City Code, the Planning Commission could no longer consider or
approve Nilson’s conditional use permit. Nilson subsequently submitted to this Office an
Advisory Opinion request.

In its request for an Advisory Opinion, Nilson argues the City’s decision is unlawful because
Nilson obtained a vested right to have its application considered under relevant City Code
provisions as they existed on May 3, 2018—the day Nilson filed its application to the City. The
Advisory Opinion – Nilson Homes
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 18, 2019      Page 2 of 5
City, however, takes the position that “formal action was taken to modify/remove the PRUD
subdivision option at the time the request by Nilson Homes was made.” Consequently, the City
believes that, under the pending ordinance exception, it does not have a legal obligation to
approve Nilson’s PRUD application.

                                            ANALYSIS
Under Utah law, an applicant who submits a complete land use application and pays all
applicable fees related to the application is entitled to review and approval of the application
under the ordinances and standards “in effect on the date that the application is complete,” and
“applicable to the application or the information shown on the application,” as long as the
application conforms to those applicable ordinances and standards. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-
509(1)(a)(i)-(ii). This rule is known as the “vested rights” rule. See also Western Land Equities v.
Logan City, 617 P.2d 388 (Utah 1980) (“[A]n applicant is entitled to [land use application
approval] if his proposed development meets the zoning requirements in existence at the time of
his application…”).

There are two exceptions to the vested rights rule. A city does not have to review an applicant’s
application under the ordinances in effect at the time a complete application is submitted (1) if
“the land use authority, on the record, formally finds that a compelling, countervailing public
interest would be jeopardized by approving the application,” or (2) if, “in the manner provided
by local ordinance and before the applicant submits the application, the municipality formally
initiates proceedings to amend the municipality’s land use regulations in a manner that would
prohibit approval of the application as submitted.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(ii)(A)-(B).

Here, the City contends that the second exception applies. The City, as stated previously, asserts
that it took formal action to “remove the PRUD subdivision option at the time the request by
Nilson Homes was made,” and that it is therefore not obligated to review Nilson’s application
under the rules as they existed when Nilson submitted its application. To support this assertion,
the City has provided agendas and minutes from Planning Commission and City Council
meetings spanning from January 25, 2018, when it appears the City began considering Nilson’s
development proposal, to July 12, 2018, when the City Council formally eliminated the PRUD
ordinance from the City Code.

The City Code does not specifically identify what action or event constitutes formal initiation of
proceedings to amend the subdivision ordinance. Consequently, we must interpret and apply
relevant provisions of state law to determine what version of the Plain City Code must apply to
Nilson’s development application. If the City formally initiated proceedings to remove the
PRUD option from the City Code before May 3, 2018—the uncontested date on which Nilson
submitted a complete land use application, then the City is not obligated to review the
application under the Code as it existed on that date.

Interpretation of a statute begins with an analysis of the provision’s plain language. Carrier v.
Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98, ¶ 30, 104 P.3d 1208. The primary goal of interpretation is “to
give effect to the legislative intent, as evidenced by the plain language, in light of the purpose the
statute [or ordinance] was meant to achieve.” Foutz v. City of South Jordan, 2004 UT 75, ¶ 11,

Advisory Opinion – Nilson Homes
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 18, 2019      Page 3 of 5
100 P.3d 1171 (emphasis added). “When the plain meaning of the statute can be discerned from
its language, no other interpretive tools are needed.” Selman v. Box Elder County, 2011 UT 18, ¶
18, 251 P.3d 804. See also UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(a)(ii)(B).

Here, since the local ordinance doesn’t specifically identify an event that formally initiates
proceedings to amend the ordinance, we must determine the definition of “proceedings” to
determine what event formally initiates the process of amending the Code. Neither State statute
nor City Code specifically define the term “proceedings,” so we turn to the word’s common
meaning for guidance. See Salt Lake City v. Roberts, 2002 UT 30 ¶ 27 (“[I]n the absence of
evidence of intent to the contrary, the words of a statute or ordinance are given their common
meaning”).

The Oxford English Dictionary defines “proceedings” as “[a]n event or series of activities
involving a set procedure.”1 According to this definition, a municipality does not formally
initiate proceedings to amend its ordinance simply by expressing a desire to amend an ordinance,
or by discussing the possibility of amending an ordinance in a public meeting. These events and
activities do not involve any sort of a set procedure. The municipality must set into motion an
“event or series of activities involving a set procedure.”

This conclusion is strengthened by the statutory requirement that the proceedings be “formally
initiat[ed].” Ordinance interpretation requires us to assume that each word is used advisedly.
Selman v. Box Elder County, 2011 UT 18, ¶ 18. “Formally initiates” certainly contemplates some
action to start the process (initiates) that is official, procedural, and more than casual (formally).

The Planning Commission and City Council agendas and minutes submitted to this Office for
review indicate that the Planning Commission began considering Nilson Homes’ development
proposal in some fashion on January 25, 2018. The submitted materials also indicate that the
City began generally discussing changes to the City Code’s subdivision regulations on March 8,
2018. These discussions predate May 3, 2018, the date on which Nilson submitted its PRUD
application for review.

However, the first agenda item within that time period that could be interpreted to set in motion a
set procedure to formally amend the Code to remove the PRUD provision appears on the May
10, 2018 Planning Commission agenda, which lists the following Legislative Item: “b. Set Public
Hearing: PRUD Ordinance Amendment – Title 11, Chapter 6.” According to the “Notice and
Agenda” for that meeting, the City distributed and posted formal public notice for the May 10,
2018 Planning Commission meeting on May 8, 2018. Therefore, the earliest the City could have
“formally initiated procedures to amend its ordinance” under State law is May 8, 2018—the date
on which the City published formal notice of a set procedure to amend the PRUD Ordinance.

Because Nilson submitted its complete application on May 3, 2018, five days prior to May 8,
2018, the City must review Nilson’s application under the City Code as it existed on the day
Nilson submitted its application.



1
    Proceedings, Oxford English Dictionary, https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/proceedings.
Advisory Opinion – Nilson Homes
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 18, 2019      Page 4 of 5
                                          CONCLUSION
State law requires a local government to review an applicant’s land use application under the
local ordinance in existence at the time the applicant submits a complete application, unless the
local government can show that an exception to this rule applies.

Here, the City has argued that it formally initiated procedures to amend its ordinance before
Nilson Homes submitted a complete application on May 3, 2108, and that the City is therefore
not obligated to review Nilson’s application under the Code as it existed on that date. However, a
correct interpretation of State law indicates that the City did not formally initiate procedures to
amend its ordinance until May 8, 2018—five days after Nilson submitted its complete
application.

While the City may have had informal discussions in open meetings about the possibility of
changing its ordinances prior to Nilson submitting a complete application, the City did not
formally initiate proceedings to amend the ordinance until it placed the matter on a meeting
agenda and provided notice to the public of the meeting. As indicated, this did not occur until
May 8, 2018. Consequently, the City must review Nilson’s application for development approval
under the City Code as it existed on May 3, 2018 when Nilson submitted its application for
development approval.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Nilson Homes
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 18, 2019      Page 5 of 5
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

                             Mayor Jon Beesley
                             Plain City
                             4160 West 2200 North
                             Plain City, UT 84404

On this 19th Day of June, 2019, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
