                       Advisory Opinion 278
                                Parties: Shawn Cronquist / Cache County
                                           Issued: November 7, 2023

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                Compliance With Land Use Regulations

                                       Interpretation of Ordinances


A property owner’s removal of large quantities of gravel, rock, and other non-soil
materials to be sold through a landscaping company was not legally permissible in
the applicable agricultural zone, as such activity is considered mineral extraction,
which is prohibited. The owner obtained a site grading permit, which allows the
owner to level a site in preparation for construction of a building by removing or
adding fill, but which caps the amount of material which may be removed. The owner
obtained a zoning clearance letter permitting him to level a building pad site, but
never began construction, and continued to remove material in excess of the permit.
While activity incidental to normal cultivation associated with agricultural operation
might include some grading of the property in preparation of growing crops, the
material would need to remain on the same lot to be exempted from mineral
extraction regulations under the county’s ordinances.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                           (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                        1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                             www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                 propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor               MARGARET W. BUSSE         JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                             Executive Director         Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor



                                                  ADVISORY OPINION

         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                Shawn Cronquist

         Local Government Entity:                      Cache County

         Applicant for land Use Approval:              Crazy R. Longhorn Ranch

         Type of Property:                             Agriculture

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                November 7, 2023

         Opinion Authored By:                          Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                        ISSUE

         Is removing and selling large quantities of gravel, rock, and other non-soil material from
         agricultural property (1) legally permissible as site grading incidental to agricultural use, or (2)
         unlawful mineral extraction?

                                          SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

         The property owner has been removing large quantities of gravel, rock, and other non-soil
         materials from his property which is located in the A10 Agricultural zone. The removed materials
         are later sold or used by the owner’s landscape company. The owner maintains that the removal is
         necessary to prepare the property for growing crops to feed his cattle, which is a permitted
         agricultural use. Ultimately however, such excavation and removal are not permitted in the A10
         zone.

         First, the property owner has secured a site grading permit and maintains that this grants permission
         for excavation to make room for growing crops to feed his cattle. The language of the ordinance
         does not support this interpretation. A site grading permit allows the owner to level a site in
         preparation for construction of a building by removing or adding fill. Site grading caps the amount
         of material which may be removed at 1,500 cubic yards. Site grading is not intended for, and does
         not grant permission for, removal of material to prepare the ground for raising crops, nor does it
         address the normal cultivation associated with agricultural operations. The property owner
         obtained a zoning clearance letter permitting him to level a building pad site but has subsequently
         removed in excess of 1,500 cubic yards of material and not begun construction of the building. No
         additional material may lawfully be removed based on this site grading zoning clearance letter.
Second, the zoning code categorizes the action of extracting metallic or nonmetallic minerals as
mineral extraction. The A10 Agricultural Zone does not permit this use. This mineral extraction
section of code excepts materials relocated on-site from regulation, however. Therefore, activities
incidental to normal cultivation associated with agricultural operation, which could include some
grading of the property in preparation of growing crops, would be permitted as long as the material
remains on the same lot or an adjoining lot owned by the same owner.

                                               EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Wayman Stodart and Brad Bearnson
        on behalf of Shawn Cronquist, Crazy R. Longhorn Ranch on March 9, 2023.
     2. Letter received from Taylor Sorensen on behalf of Cache County on April 3, 2023.
     3. Submittal received May 24, 2023 from Brad H. Bearnson on behalf of Shawn Cronquist.

                                              BACKGROUND

The Property Owner has asked us to answer whether the property owner’s actions of removing
large quantities of gravel, rock and other non-soil material are (1) legally permissible as site
grading incidental to agricultural use or (2) unlawful mineral extraction.

Shawn Cronquist, as Crazy R. Longhorn Ranch (the “Property Owner” or “Owner”), owns
property located at 1929 Canyon Road in Cache County, Utah identified as Parcels #08-046-009
and #08-020-0009 in Cache County (the “Subject Property” or “Property”). The Property is zoned
A10 Agricultural pursuant to Cache County Code 17.09.030 and according to the Owner, he is
raising longhorn cattle onsite.

In 2020, the Owner approached Cache County regarding his desire to remove large quantities of
fill material from the Property. He noted that gravel, rock and other non-soil material would be
removed and offered for sale or use in several of the Owner’s businesses, including Birch Canyon
Landscape, Inc.

Long-term, continuous extraction of material is not a permitted use in the A10 zone. The Owner
has nonetheless made several attempts to obtain some form of approval for his proposed use of the
property.

First, Minor Mineral Extraction Operations of less than 5 acres are permitted in the A10 zone with
approval of a Conditional Use Permit. Accordingly, Cache County instructed the Owner to apply
for a Conditional Use Permit for mineral extraction which the Owner did. Following significant
resistance from the public, the Owner withdrew his application noting that the application failed
to accurately define the focus of his intentions for the Property.

Next, the zoning code permits removal of up to 1,500 cubic yards of material per parcel after
securing a zoning clearance letter for site grading to prepare a pad site for building construction.
The Owner divided the largest parcel into 16 separate parcels with the apparent intention of
securing site grading clearance for removal of 1,500 cubic yards from each of the individual
Advisory Opinion – Cronquist / Cache County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 7, 2023 Page 2 of 7
parcels. However, the division did not provide the Owner with the anticipated benefits under
County Code and the property was recombined as one parcel a few months later.

As an alternate path forward, the Owner next sought permission to grade a single site for a future
building pad. As required by ordinance, the Owner secured a Zoning Clearance letter dated
November 20201 approving Owner’s request to perform site grading in connection with leveling a
pad site for construction of a 12’ x 24’ loafing shed. As required in the Code, the County requires,
among other issues not in dispute, no more than 1,500 cubic yards be removed from the parcel and
monthly reporting and verification. To date, verification of material removed has not been provided
and no additional zone changes, permits, permissions, or clearances for earth moving have been
sought by the Owner or approved by the County. According to the record, construction of the
loafing shed has not commenced.

In September of 2022, County staff became aware of significant, regular, recurring excavation and
extraction activity on the Property. The record contains allegations that the Owner has been
engaged in the extensive on-going excavation and extraction of gravel, soil and rock from the
Property. For instance, neighbors allege that three to four bottom-dump loads were regularly taken
on a daily basis and as many as twelve loads were hauled offsite by large dump trucks on numerous
occasions. In response, the County issued the Owner a Notice of Violation in October 2022
advising the Owner that his actions violated the relevant County Code regulating this activity and
informed him of the consequences for noncompliance with the Notice of Violation.

The County alleges that the gravel extraction, excavation, hauling, and site grading has led to
surrounding property owners calling, writing letters, and generally expressing concern. The
activities, allegedly, also have a negative effect on the environment. The work has caused massive
changes to the topography of the properties, causing erosion and damage to the watershed as the
hillside is excavated. The County alleges in the Notice that an excess of 1,500 cubic yards of
material has already been removed from the Property. The Property Owner has not disputed this
claim.

The Property Owner now maintains that the recent work done on the property is intended to create
a hayfield for his cattle, and constitutes “grading incidental to agricultural activities” which he
alleges is permitted in this zone, according to his interpretation of the zoning code. The Owner
also maintains that his activities are not material extraction and excavation, and are therefore
lawful and may continue.

On the other hand, the County maintains that for the excavation work to fall under “grading
incidental to agricultural activities” as maintained the by the Property Owner, the excavated
material may be moved to accommodate the growing of crops, but must remain on the property,
and cannot be removed from the site. The County maintains that the removal of materials, in the
amounts at issue here, is prohibited.




1
  It also appears that the Property Owner received a grading permit in connection with construction of a pole barn in
September of 2014, which similarly limited excavation to 1,500 cubic yards. It is not clear from the record whether
this site work was completed, and thus, the allowed material already removed from the site.

Advisory Opinion – Cronquist / Cache County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 7, 2023 Page 3 of 7
Accordingly, the Property Owner has requested this Advisory Opinion to determine whether the
actions of removing gravel, rock, and other non-soil material are (1) legally permissible as grading
incidental to agricultural use or (2) unlawful mineral extraction.

                                               ANALYSIS

It is undisputed that the Owner has been removing large quantities of gravel, rock, and other non-
soil materials from the Property. What is at dispute is whether this site work (1) is lawful, as site
grading incidental to normal cultivation associated with agricultural operation, or (2) mineral
extraction, which is not permitted in the A10 Agricultural zone.

County Code provides that “any uses that are not specifically permitted or conditionally permitted
are prohibited.” CACHE COUNTY CODE 17.09.020(C)(2). Therefore, to be lawful, the excavation
must fall into one of the permitted or conditionally permitted use categories.

     I.          Site Grading allows for removal of up to 1,500 cubic yards of material when
                 leveling a pad site for construction of a building. Site grading does not allow
                 extraction for activities incidental to normal cultivation associated with
                 agricultural operation.

The Property Owner maintains that his removal of materials is to prepare the ground for growing
crops to feed cattle he runs on the Property, and therefore “incidental to the normal cultivation
associated with agricultural operations.” The Owner maintains that by securing a site grading
permit, which allows grading for a building pad, but excludes “normal cultivation associated with
agricultural uses” his actions are lawful. The Owner’s conclusion results from an incorrect reading
of the County Code.

The Cache County Code 17.07.030(6420) defines site grading as follows:

           SITE GRADING: the act of excavation or filling or combination thereof or any
           leveling to a smooth horizontal or sloping surface on a property in preparation for
           the construction of a building, but not including normal cultivation associated with
           agricultural operation. Excavation shall be less than one thousand five hundred
           (1,500) cubic yards per parcel. Additional excavation may only be permitted with
           a variance.

(Emphasis added.) In plain English, with a site grading permit, the Property Owner can secure
permission to remove up to 1,500 cubic yards of material to prepare a building pad site. “Normal
cultivation associated with agricultural operations” is excluded from site grading, and is therefore
not addressed in this use category.

We are therefore tasked with determining whether removing large quantities of gravel, rock, and
other non-soil materials is permitted as “site grading” yet exempt from the 1,500 cubic yard
material removal limit.

To make this determination, we look first to the plain language of the ordinance. Utah courts
“interpret municipal and county ordinances and resolutions according to our well-settled rules of
statutory interpretation and construction.” Pinetree Assocs. v. Ephraim City, 2003 UT 6, ¶ 13. Thus,
Advisory Opinion – Cronquist / Cache County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 7, 2023 Page 4 of 7
we “first examine the plain language of the ordinance and resort to other methods of interpretation
only if the language is ambiguous.” Gardner v. Perry City, 2000 UT App 1, ¶ 17. An ordinance is
ambiguous when “its terms remain susceptible to two or more reasonable interpretations.” Marion
Energy, Inc. v. KFJ Ranch P’ship, 2011 UT 50, ¶ 15.

Furthermore, ordinances should be construed in a manner that renders all parts of the ordinance
“relevant and meaningful,” Foutz v. City of South Jordan, 2004 UT 75, ¶ 11, 100 P.3d 1171. A
correct reading should not “impose an unreasonable and unworkable construction,” Miller v.
Weaver, 2003 UT 12, ¶ 19, 66 P.3d 592, or “render some part of a provision nonsensical or absurd.”
Perrine v. Kennecott Mining Co., 911 P.2d at 1292.

The Property Owner has not disputed the County’s allegations that the material excavated is well
in excess of 1,500 cubic yards. Instead the Property Owner claims that the current site work is
excepted from the material cap because the activity is properly categorized as “normal cultivation
associated with agricultural operation.”

This interpretation is not supported by the plain language of the ordinance.

The definition of site grading allows for a property owner to level a building pad site by the
excavation or filling of material, and limits the amount of material which can be removed from the
property for such activity to 1,500 cubic yards. This definition specifically excepts “normal
cultivation associated with agricultural operations.” The Property Owner attempts to stretch the
language to mean “normal cultivation” is excluded from the site grading 1,500 cubic yard material
removal maximum. This interpretation misses the purpose of the language. The language simply
excludes “normal cultivation” from the definition of site grading entirely.

The ordinance could instead be worded as “Property owners may remove up to 1,500 cubic yards
to prepare a building pad site by securing a zoning clearance letter for site grading. If a property
owner is moving material for normal cultivation associated with agricultural operations, such
activity does not constitute site grading as defined in the Code.” One would therefore need to look
elsewhere in the code to determine whether and how grading the site in preparation for planting
crops to feed livestock is regulated.

In this case, “normal cultivation associated with agricultural operations” is not specifically defined
in the Code, so we look to plain and ordinary meaning. Pinetree Assocs., 2003 UT 6, ¶ 13. The
County maintains that ‘“normal cultivation” taken at its face value and commonly accepted
definition means the general and average harrowing, plowing, or other furrowing of an existing
agricultural operation. The Property Owner interprets “normal cultivation” to mean the unlimited
excavation of material as long as the owner eventually intends to plant crops to feed cattle on the
property. We agree with the County’s proffered interpretation of the plain meaning. Indeed, if the
Property Owner’s interpretation was used, the language governing site grading would become
inoperative or superfluous. And Utah courts have been clear that ordinances are to be read to give
each provision of the Code meaning, and to read ordinances in a way that doesn’t lead to an absurd
result. Perrine, 911 P.2d at 1292.

Note here that the Property Owner does have permission to remove 1,500 cubic yards of material
in connection with the construction of a loafing shed, in accordance with the Zoning Clearance

Advisory Opinion – Cronquist / Cache County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 7, 2023 Page 5 of 7
Approval secured in 2020.2 The Approval includes the condition that “No more than 1,500 cubic
yards of material shall be removed from the parcel and verification of the amount of material
excavated from the site must be provided. To accomplish this, the applicant must provide a monthly
report to the Development Services Office that accurately tracks and reports: (a) the number of
truckloads of material removed from the site; and (b) the amount of material per truck; and (c) the
total amount of cubic yards of material that has been removed from the site.”

The Property Owner has not disputed that well over 1,500 cubic yards of material has been
removed and that monthly reports have not been submitted. Additionally, there appears to be no
established plan to erect the proposed loafing shed. Therefore, even the removal of 1,500 cubic
yards of material in connection with this site grading zoning clearance letter has not been
conducted in accordance with the ordinance.

In conclusion, site grading is permitted in the A10 Zone with a zoning clearance letter. Such
clearance gives the Owner permission to level a building pad site by removing or filling the site
but caps the amount of material which may be removed to 1,500 cubic yards. Site grading does
not include “normal cultivation associated with agricultural operations,” but, as explained above,
the Owner’s activity in this case does not constitute normal cultivation associated with agricultural
operations. Because it is acknowledged that an excess of 1,500 cubic yards of material has been
removed, the Owner man not excavate from the site any additional material under the approved
site grading zoning clearance letter.

     II.         Removal of metallic and non-metallic minerals or materials constitutes Mineral
                 Extraction which is not lawful in the A10 Agricultural zone.

The County maintains that the work on the Property constitutes mineral extraction which is
prohibited by Cache County Code 17.09.030(6400)3. Mineral Extraction is defined in the code as:

           MINERAL EXTRACTION: The extraction of metallic or nonmetallic minerals or
           materials; including the accessory uses of rock crushing, screening, and storage of
           explosives; except where such excavation is for purposes of grading for a building
           lot or roadway, where grass sod is recovered to be used for landscaping, or where
           materials are excavated from a lot for use on that same lot or adjoining parcel by
           the owner of the property. Includes stone quarries and sand/gravel pits.

In other words, according to the plain language of the ordinance, removal of “metallic or
nonmetallic minerals or materials” is mineral extraction. Mineral extraction is not a permitted use
in the A10 zone. Based on the information presented to our Office, the ongoing removal of material
from the Property meets the definition of mineral extraction, and such actions are therefore not
lawful in this zone.

However, the definition does exclude “such excavation for purposes of grading for a building lot
or roadway . . . or where materials are excavated from a lot for use on the same lot or adjoining

2
   Zoning clearance letter issued in November of 2022. Approval was also granted for a site grading permit in
association with the installation of a pole barn on-site in 2014.
3
  In the event that the extracted material includes top soil, such removal would require approval of a conditional use
permit. CACHE COUNTY CODE 17.09.030(6410).

Advisory Opinion – Cronquist / Cache County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 7, 2023 Page 6 of 7
parcel by the owner of the property.” In plain English, grading for a lot or roadway is not
excavation and material moved from one location to another on the same property or an adjoining
lot owned by the same entity is not considered excavation. Therefore, the Owner may grade the
site in order to cultivate crops for livestock, but must keep all of the material onsite or on an
adjoining property owned by the same party.4

In conclusion, extracting metallic or nonmetallic minerals or materials constitutes mineral
extraction and is not permitted in the A10 zone. It is not lawful to remove material from the
Property for off-site sale as landscaping materials.

                                                   CONCLUSION

The property owner has been removing large quantities of gravel, rock, and other non-soil
materials from his property which is located in the A10 Agricultural zone. The removed materials
are later sold or used by the owner’s landscape company. The owner maintains that the removal is
necessary to prepare the property for growing crops to feed his cattle, which is a permitted
agricultural use. Ultimately however, such excavation and removal are not permitted in the A10
zone.

First, the property owner has secured a site grading permit and maintains that this grants permission
for excavation to make room for growing crops to feed his cattle. The language of the ordinance
does not support this interpretation. A site grading permit allows the owner to level a site in
preparation for construction of a building by removing or adding fill. Site grading caps the amount
of material which may be removed at 1,500 cubic yards. Site grading is not intended for, and does
not grant permission for, removal of material to prepare the ground for raising crops, nor does it
address the normal cultivation associated with agricultural operations. The property owner
obtained a zoning clearance letter permitting him to level a building pad site but has subsequently
removed in excess of 1,500 cubic yards of material and not begun construction of the building. No
additional material may lawfully be removed based on this site grading zoning clearance letter.

Second, the zoning code categorizes the action of extracting metallic or nonmetallic minerals as
mineral extraction. The A10 Agricultural Zone does not permit this use. This mineral extraction
section of code excepts materials relocated on-site from regulation, however. Therefore, activities
incidental to normal cultivation associated with agricultural operation, which could include some
grading the property in preparation of growing crops, would be permitted as long as the material
remains on the same lot or an adjoining lot owned by the same owner.



Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


4
  Subject to other requirements in state law and local ordinances. For instance, according to Cache County Code
15.32.30 a land disturbance permit is required to disturb 5,000 square feet or more of land. However, Cache County
does state in the record that “The excavation and grading of earth material on properties associated with [the Property]
could be associated with normal cultivation of an agricultural operation, as long as the material remains on these
contagious parcels.” Cache County / Shawn Cronquist, Notice of Violation dated October 18, 2022, page 4 of 6.

Advisory Opinion – Cronquist / Cache County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 7, 2023 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not constitute
legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of
Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may not
reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in § 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are also
designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
