                       Advisory Opinion 261
                        Parties: Fox Hollow of Providence Inc. / Providence City
                                            Issued: October 5, 2022

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                               Compliance With Land Use Regulations

                                            Development Bonds

                                       Interpretation of Ordinances

                               Requirements Imposed On Development

                                        Subdivision Plat Approval

Development agreements may not be mandated for all conventional subdivisions
as the only option for developing property in the municipality. A plat approval was
improperly conditioned on execution of a development agreement subjecting the
applicant to improvement standards that differed from state law and removed the
applicant’s choice for bonding in lieu of improvement completion. The applicant is
entitled to final plat approval without a development agreement because its project
complies with conventional development standards, but it must install
improvements necessary to meet fire and building codes according to state law
prior to obtaining building permits, while bonding for other improvements required
by the City. The City may not require completion of improvements according to its
own adopted standards in a way that conflicts with state building and fire codes.

                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          (801) 530-6391
                      PO Box 146702                                                       1-877-882-4662
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                            www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor          MARGARET W. BUSSE       JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                        Executive Director       Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION


       Advisory Opinion Requested By:              Amy C. Walker

       Local Government Entity:                    Providence City

       Applicant for Land Use Approval:            Fox Hollow of Providence Inc.

       Type of Property:                           Residential

       Date of this Advisory Opinion:              October 5, 2022

       Opinion Authored By:                        Richard B. Plehn, Attorney
                                                   Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                   ISSUES

       May a city require subdivision applicants to execute a development agreement that
       commits the developer to completing infrastructure improvements according to local
       standards prior to receiving a building permit?

                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

       State law allows a subdivision applicant to choose to provide a form of improvement
       completion assurance as an alternative to completing all required infrastructure prior to
       development activity. This choice does not supersede the terms of a valid development
       agreement, though a development agreement may not be the only option for developing
       property in the municipality. Additionally, an applicant choosing to provide assurance for
       required improvements must nevertheless complete at least those improvements
       necessary to meet state building and fire codes in order to obtain a building permit. Cities
       may not enact their own improvement standards that conflict with state law.

       Under Providence City Code, a development agreement is required for final plat approval
       for any conventional subdivision, making it the only option to develop property in violation
       of state law. In response to Fox Hollow’s request for final plat approval of its townhome
       subdivision, the City proposed a draft development agreement that would obligate Fox
Hollow to complete infrastructure improvements according to city code standards before
receiving building permits.

Fox Hollow is nonetheless entitled to final plat approval without a development agreement
because its project complies with conventional development standards. It must,
nevertheless, install improvements necessary to meet fire and building codes according
to state law, while bonding for other improvements required by the City. The City may not
require completion of improvements according to its own adopted standards in a way that
conflicts with state building and fire codes.

                                              EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information
prior to completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by attorney Amy C. Walker, on behalf of
        Fox Hollow of Providence Ince., received on June 9, 2022.
     2. Response Letter from Chad Woolley, Providence City Attorney, dated July 18,
        2022.
     3. Reply Letter from Amy Walker, dated July 27, 2022.

                                             BACKGROUND

Fox Hollow of Providence, Inc. (“Fox Hollow”) is the owner of real property that was
annexed into Providence City on January 20, 2021, and zoned Multi-Family Medium
(MFM), which allows for multi-family residential type uses.

Later that year, Fox Hollow applied for, and received concept and preliminary plan
approval of, a residential townhome development known as Fox Hollow Townhomes. The
approved plans proposed a two-phased development consisting of attached multi-family
dwellings totaling 60 separate single-family lots, together with HOA-managed common
area open space.

Fox Hollow then applied for approval of Phase 1 of the Fox Hollow Townhomes, which
proposed 33 lots at a density of 11.83 (The MFM zone allows a maximum of 12
units/acre). The City’s subdivision ordinance requires a development agreement for final
plat approval, and on December 15, 2021, the City Council approved a draft Development
and Public Improvement Installation Agreement (“Draft DA”) for Phase 1.

The terms of the Draft DA provided that prior to the issuance of any building permits,
“minimum improvements” must be completed according to the City’s subdivision
ordinance, which defines minimum improvements to include “all grading of roads . . . all
curb, gutter, and all utility trenches that lay inside the roadway; all stormwater, water




Advisory Opinion – Fox Hollow / Providence
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 2 of 11
sewer, and other improvements that may be deemed necessary; and egress and ingress
to provide acceptable and safe travel to and from each lot in the approved subdivision.”1

Despite approval of the Draft DA by the City Council, it remained unsigned by Fox Hollow,
who asserted that it did not have a meaningful opportunity to review or negotiate the terms
of the Draft DA before its approval. While City Code requires that a development
agreement be executed and an improvement bond posted before a final plat is approved,
due to an administrative error by the City, Phase 1’s final plat was both signed and
recorded before either had occurred.

Fox Hollow thereafter offered to bond in order to secure building permits for Phase 1, but
the City did not accept, instead insisting on, prior to any building permits, execution of the
Draft DA and completion of the minimum improvements defined in City Code—which the
City concedes to amount to almost everything short of “landscaping or a paved surface.”
Due to supply chain shortages, Fox Hollow was unable to complete all of the City’s
requested improvements, though it believed it had already completed improvements
necessary to meet building and fire code requirements. Fox Hollow sent the City a letter
demanding the issuance of building permits, arguing that requiring completion of the
City’s defined minimum improvements before permits conflicted with state law, and
alleging that the installed improvements met building and fire code requirements as
necessary, and that it was willing to bond for the remaining improvements.


At Fox Hollow’s request, the City Council met shortly thereafter to consider whether to
amend the Draft DA in a way that would allow building permits based on what
improvements had already been installed and with a bond for the remaining minimum
improvements as defined by City Code. The Council expressed concerns about deviating
from City Ordinances that required completion of minimum improvements, and ultimately
tabled the matter to allow the matter to be considered by the Property Rights
Ombudsman.

On June 9, 2022, Fox Hollow requested an advisory opinion to determine whether
Providence City has complied with the mandatory provisions of applicable land use
regulations, and imposed proper requirements on development. The parties have since
been able to resolve the issues as it related to buildings permits for Phase 1 of the
development. However, Fox Hollow continues to seek an opinion on these issues as it
relates to obtaining approval and permits for Phase 2.


                                             ANALYSIS

This opinion centers around whether Providence City (“City”) ordinances comply with
state law—specifically, whether the City’s adopted development standards comply with
Utah’s Land Use Development and Management Act (“LUDMA”) regarding infrastructure
improvements required for new development and the ability of a subdivision applicant to

1 PROVIDENCE CITY CODE (PCC) § 11-5-2(A).


Advisory Opinion – Fox Hollow / Providence
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 3 of 11
obtain certain approvals by providing an improvement completion assurance2 in lieu of
installed improvements.

     I.          Resolving Conflicts Between State and Local Standards, and Statutory
                 Ambiguity

LUDMA provides that a municipality’s land use ordinance is illegal if it is expressly
preempted by, or enacted contrary to, state law. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-801(3)(a). Generally,
Utah Courts have held that local governments “may legislate by ordinance in areas
previously dealt with by state legislation, provided the ordinance in no way conflicts with
existing state law.” Redwood Gym v. Salt Lake County, 624 P.2d 1138, 1144 (Utah 1981).
Local ordinances conflict with state law when “the local law [stands] as an obstacle to the
accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of the legislature.”
Price Development Co. v. Orem City, 2000 UT 26, ¶ 12.

The City argues that the LUDMA code sections dealing with infrastructure improvement
completion and assurances are “a bit of a mess,” alleging various inconsistencies within
its provisions, both in regards to conflicting definitions or uses of terms, as well as whether
to bond for improvements is the applicant’s choice to make, or the City’s to allow.

However, the City’s contentions that LUDMA’s provisions are inconsistent do not further
its position that it may subject Fox Hollow to certain local development standards that are
more restrictive or amount to additional barriers to the ability to develop its property. If
anything, even accepting the City’s arguments as true, the fact that internal
inconsistencies in LUDMA may result in two or more plausible meanings of the same
provisions is the very definition of ambiguity. See Epperson v. Utah State Ret. Bd., 949
P.2d 779, 783 n.6 (Utah Ct. App. 1997) (citing Alf v. State Farm Fire & Cas. Co., 850 P.2d
1272, 1274 (Utah 1993) (ambiguous means capable of two or more plausible meanings).
Ambiguity is significant when it comes to interpreting the meaning and applicability of land
use regulations. This is because Utah Courts have repeatedly and consistently held that
as zoning laws are in “derogation of a property owner’s common-law right to unrestricted
use of his or her property, provisions therein restricting property uses should be strictly
construed, and provisions permitting property uses should be liberally construed in favor
of the property owner.” Patterson v. Utah Cty. Bd. of Adjustment, 893 P.2d 602, 606 (Utah
Ct. App. 1995).

To the City’s credit, state law on infrastructure improvement completion and assurances
looks entirely different than it did ten years ago, with incremental changes to its provisions
over the last several years. Nevertheless, we conclude that LUDMA’s regulatory scheme
regarding infrastructure improvement completion and assurance is not ambiguous. Even
if it were, the inevitable result would be to apply the provisions in a way that favors Fox
Hollow’s ability to obtain approvals to develop its property. Because of this, to make the
opinion more concise, rather than address all of the City’s contentions in detail, we feel it
2 Defined to mean “a surety bond, letter of credit, financial institution bond, cash, assignment of rights, lien, or other

equivalent security required by a municipality to guaranty the proper completion of landscaping or an infrastructure
improvement required as a condition precedent to: (a) recording a subdivision plat; or (b) development of a
commercial, industrial, mixed use, or multifamily project.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-103(23).

Advisory Opinion – Fox Hollow / Providence
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 4 of 11
might suffice to simply provide a brief overview of how LUDMA’s regulatory scheme on
improvement completion and assurances has evolved to better explain the legislative
intent inherent in the plain language of current statutes.

     A. Cities Must Accommodate an Applicant’s Choice to Provide Completion
        Assurance.

Fox Hollow argues that state law gives the choice to the applicant of whether to complete
required infrastructure or provide improvement completion assurance, and that the City
may not remove that choice by enacting ordinances that require one over the other. The
City believes that state law’s reference to the applicant’s choice to bond for improvements
only applies when that choice is made available by local ordinance.

The state has historically given broad discretion to local governments to enact their own
land use ordinances and development standards not inconsistent with state law. Up until
2018, state law implied that the default expectation was that a subdivision applicant was
obligated to complete required landscaping or infrastructure improvements prior to any
plat recordation or development activity, unless “the land use authority ha[d] authorized
the applicant to post an improvement completion assurance . . . consistent with local
ordinance.” See UTAH CODE § 10-9a-604.5 (2013) (emphasis added).3 Under that
regulatory scheme, the decision to allow for improvement assurance in lieu of completed
infrastructure improvements rested entirely with the City pursuant to its discretion to
choose to enact local standards for completion assurance.

However, in 2018,4 the legislative winds began to shift when Section 604.5 was amended
to say:

           Before an applicant conducts any development activity or records a plat, the
           applicant shall:
                  (i) complete any required landscaping or infrastructure
                  improvements; or
                  (ii) post an improvement completion assurance for any required
                  landscaping or infrastructure improvements.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-604.5(2) (2018) (emphasis added). This section continued that “if an
applicant elects to post an improvement completion assurance,” the municipality “shall . .
. allow the applicant to post an assurance that meets the conditions of this title, and any

3 Section 10-9a-604.5 was added to LUDMA in 2008, see 2008 Ut. ALS 112, 2008 Utah Laws 112, 2008 Ut. Ch. 112,

2008 Ut. SB 196, which provided that a land use authority “may allow a land use applicant to proceed with subdivision
plat recording or development activity before completing improvements required” so long as it required an
improvement assurance that met certain requirements. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-604.5 (2008) (emphasis added). The
section was repealed and reenacted in 2013, see 2013 Ut. ALS 309, 2013 Utah Laws 309, 2013 Ut. Ch. 309, 2013 Ut. SB
153, with much more cautionary language: “A land use authority shall require an applicant to complete a required
landscaping or infrastructure improvement prior to any plat recordation or development activity,” though this
provision did not apply if, “upon the applicant’s request, the land use authority has authorized the applicant to post an
improvement completion assurance in a matter that is consistent with local ordinance.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-604.5
(2013) (emphasis added).
4 2018 Ut. HB 377, 2018 Utah Laws 339, 2018 Ut. Ch. 339, 2018 Ut. ALS 339.


Advisory Opinion – Fox Hollow / Providence
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 5 of 11
local ordinance.”5 Id. This amendment effectively mandated that municipalities ensure
that their local ordinances allow the option to provide assurance and gave the developer
the discretion to choose between the two options. Any remaining doubts that
municipalities still had any discretion to not make that choice available in their ordinances
was removed the next year when more direct language was added to this section: “A
municipality shall . . . establish a minimum of two acceptable forms of completion
assurance.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-604.5(2)(c)(i) (2019).6

LUDMA, therefore, currently gives the subdivision applicant the choice of either
completing all required infrastructure improvements or providing a completion assurance
to record a plat or commence development activity. Local governments must
accommodate that choice by making at least two acceptable forms of completion
assurance available in its land use ordinances, and may not otherwise remove the
applicant’s meaningful choice to provide an assurance.

     B. Completion Assurance Option Does Not Apply to State Construction Code
        Requirements.

While state law gives applicants the choice to provide completion assurance in lieu of
completing all required infrastructure improvements before plat recording or development
activity, some improvements must still be installed before a building permit is approved.
Specifically, the improvement assurance provisions in Section 604.5 do not “supersede
the terms of . . . the state construction code,” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-604.5(5).

For example, the State Construction and Fire Code Act states, regarding fire safety during
construction,7 that vehicle access “shall be provided by either temporary or permanent
roads,” and that “[i]f an improvement completion assurance has been posted in
accordance with Section 10-9a-604.5, a local jurisdiction may not require permanent
roads, or asphalt or concrete on temporary roads, before final approval of the structure
served by the road.” UTAH CODE § 15A-5-205.6(1). Temporary roads are those
“constructed with a minimum of site specific structural fill for permanent roads and road
base, or other approved material complying with local standards.” Id.

When an applicant elects to provide improvement completion assurance, “the municipality
may not deny an applicant a building permit if the development meets the requirements
for the issuance of a building permit under the building code and fire code.” UTAH CODE
§ 10-9a-604.5(4). Rather, the municipality is directed to “issue or deny a building permit
in accordance with Section 10-9a-802 based on the installation of landscaping or
infrastructure improvements.” Id. § 604.5(2)(c)(iv). Section 10-9a-802, in turn, likewise

5 The City relies on this language “meets the conditions of . . . any local ordinance” to support its contention that it may,

by ordinance, select which improvements are eligible for improvement assurance. That is not supported by the plain
language here, which refers only to the assurance itself that must comply with local ordinances, not the applicant’s
choice to provide assurance in the first place.
6 2019 Ut. HB 315, 2019 Utah Laws 384, 2019 Ut. Ch. 384, 2019 Ut. ALS 384.
7 Section 15A-5-205.6 consists of amendments and additions to Chapter 33 of the International Fire Code (“IFC”) in the

state’s adoption of the international code as the State Fire Code. See UTAH CODE § 15A-5-103. Chapter 33 of the IFC,
specifically, is titled “Fire Safety During Construction and Demolition.” IFC Chapter 33 (2018).

Advisory Opinion – Fox Hollow / Providence
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 6 of 11
states that a municipality “may not deny an applicant a building permit because the
applicant has not completed an infrastructure improvement[] that is not essential to meet
the requirements for the issuance of a building permit under the building code and fire
code,” and for which an assurance has been provided. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-802(2)(d).

Because improvement assurance does not apply to the terms of the state construction
code, see id. § 604.5(5), it is inherent in the above provisions that the completion of
infrastructure improvements essential to meet building and fire codes is still required prior
to issuance of a building permit, regardless of the applicant’s choice to provide
improvement assurance—which instead only applies to all other infrastructure
improvements required by local ordinances.

     C. For purposes of building permit issuance, “building and fire codes” consist of
        adopted state code, not additional requirements otherwise found in local
        ordinance.

Fox Hollow’s main contention is that, contrary to the provisions cited above, Providence
City is illegally withholding issuance of building permits by insisting on completion of
certain infrastructure improvements according to local standards, which Fox Hollow
alleges go beyond what is required for “building code and fire code” under state law.

City Code provides that “[t]he following minimum improvements shall be completed and
in place before the City will issue a building permit for any lot within [a] proposed
development:

           1. All grading of roads (including pit run and road base) as shown on the
              approved construction drawings, and all curb, gutter, and all utility
              trenches that lay inside the roadway;
           2. All storm water (excluding finish grades and landscaping), water, sewer,
              and other improvements that may be deemed necessary minimum
              improvement; and . . .
           3. Egress and ingress to provide acceptable and safe travel to and from
              each lot in the approved subdivision. Construction zone signs provided
              and maintained by the City at the developer’s expense must be installed
              as per the Public Works Director.

PCC § 10-14-1.C(1). As discussed, because state law has previously spoken on the
subject of what improvements may be required before issuance of a building permit, the
City’s ordinance is only permissible if it “in no way conflicts with existing state law.”
Redwood Gym, 624 P.2d 1138, at 1144.

In its submissions, the City argues that Fox Hollow interprets “building and fire code” too
narrowly, and that the City’s building and fire code include not only its adoption of
international building and fire code standards, but also PCC Title 11—the City’s
subdivision ordinances—which includes the City’s defined minimum improvements.
These improvements therefore are essential for building and fire code, the City argues.

Advisory Opinion – Fox Hollow / Providence
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 7 of 11
The term “the City’s Building and Fire Code” is somewhat of a misnomer. Municipalities
are not given discretion to have their own building or fire code standards in any material
sense. Rather, Utah’s State Construction and Fire Codes Act consists of the “codes
adopted with any modifications . . . that the state and each political subdivision of the
state shall follow.” UTAH CODE § 15A-1-204(1)(a).8 This state statute provides the extent
to which any local variation is allowed to the otherwise statewide adoption of international
building and fire codes.9 The City’s argument that its building code includes its subdivision
improvement standards is also not borne out by the City Code’s plain language, which
provides that the Building Code of Providence City consists of the adoption of statewide
uniform construction codes according to state law. See PCC § 9-1-1.10

Simply put, state law has spoken to when exactly a municipality may deny a building
permit, which is that it “may not deny an applicant a building permit if the development
meets the requirements for the issuance of a building permit under the building code and
fire code.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-604.5(4). These provisions, as they stand, are not
ambiguous. As such, Utah’s State Construction and Fire Codes Act, UTAH CODE Title 15A,
is the sole source of requirements for infrastructure improvements needed to obtain a
building permit. This does not include the City’s minimum improvement requirements
found in its subdivision regulations to the extent that they conflict with this state Act.

     II.         Development Agreements may be Required for Optional Development
                 Types, but Not All Conventional Subdivisions

Fox Hollow does not want to sign the Draft DA approved by the City because the
document contains a provision that would obligate Fox Hollow to complete certain
infrastructure improvements prior to building permits that Fox Hollow believes it would
otherwise not be required to do under state law by providing improvement completion
assurance. Fox Hollow therefore believes that this provision of the Draft DA is
unenforceable.

The City argues that it is not violating state law by requiring City Code’s minimum
improvements because the provisions in Section 604.5 giving the applicant an ability to
choose to provide improvement assurance “do[es] not supersede the terms of a valid
development agreement . . . .” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-604.5(5). City Code requires a
developer to enter into a development agreement with the City before the developer may
obtain project approval. Therefore, the City argues, as LUDMA allows the parties to
negotiate their own agreement, the City does not violate LUDMA when it requires
completion of minimum improvements according to its subdivision standards.



8 See also, UTAH CODE § 15A-1-403 (the State Fire Code is “a code to which cities, counties, fire protection districts, and

the state shall adhere in safeguarding life and property from the hazards of fire and explosion”)
9 For example, the State Fire Code does not fully adopt the appendices to the International Fire Code, but does otherwise

allow each local jurisdiction to adopt said appendices by ordinance. UTAH CODE § 15A-1-403(7)(c).
10 The PCC cites to an outdated state code reference, Utah Code Title 58, Chapter 56, which is the predecessor to the

State Construction and Fire Code Act, Utah Code Title 15A.

Advisory Opinion – Fox Hollow / Providence
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 8 of 11
A development agreement is a valid and useful land use tool, and municipalities are
authorized by state law to enter into development agreements with private property
owners as a form of land use control. See UTAH CODE § 10-9a-102(2) (development
agreements included among authorized actions for the use and development of land).

LUDMA provides that a municipality may generally enter into a development agreement
containing any term that the municipality considers necessary or appropriate to
accomplish land use objectives, See UTAH CODE § 10-9a-532(1), but like all governmental
activity, the use of development agreements must operate within statutory and
constitutional limits. One limitation imposed by LUDMA is that a municipality may not
require a development agreement as the only option for developing property within the
municipality. Id. § 532(2)(c).

This prohibition on compulsory development agreements is a logical outflow of the very
concept of an “agreement.”11 In other words, for something to be considered a valid
development agreement, it must generally meet the common law requirements of a legal
contract. Contract law is based upon the principle that parties should be able to bargain
between them as they see fit, and thereby enjoy the benefit of their bargain. This concept
of a bargained-for performance or return promise is known as consideration, and is an
essential element of a valid contract. Indeed, “[w]here consideration is lacking, there can
be no contract.” General Ins. Co. of Am. v. Carnicero Dynasty Corp., 545 P.2d 502, 504
(Utah 1976).

Consistent with fundamental contract law, as long as a development agreement is entered
into voluntarily with consideration negotiated at arm’s length, and is otherwise legal, it is
valid and enforceable. However, when a local government makes a development
agreement “mandatory” under its code in order to develop property, in that there is no
development alternative in which a development agreement will not be required, the result
is not a development agreement at all, but simply another form of compulsory land use
regulation.12

     A. Development agreements are validly required for PUDs as an optional
        development type.

City Code mentions development agreements being required under two circumstances.
One is found in Section 10-14-2, applicable to Planned Unit Developments, and which
requires a development agreement as part of the “procedure” for approval of a PUD.

Planned Unit Development is defined as follows:


11 After all, development agreement is appropriately defined to mean “a written agreement . . . between a municipality

and one or more parties . . . .” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-103(12) (emphasis).
12 And not likely a valid land use regulation, either, as the unfettered discretion of the land use authority to impose any

regulatory or restrictive condition it imagines without regard to predictable, objective standards otherwise expected of
enacted land use regulations would very likely be considered unconstitutional. See Lehi City v. Rickabaugh, 2021 UT
App 36, ¶ 39, 487 P.3d 453, 464 (a statute or ordinance is unconstitutionally vague if either it does not provide the kind
of notice that enables ordinary people to understand what conduct is prohibited, or it encourages arbitrary and
discriminatory enforcement).

Advisory Opinion – Fox Hollow / Providence
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 9 of 11
           A development of land consisting of separate residential lots of record
           where conventional setbacks, lot sizes or density may be varied with
           adjacent land in common, usually as open space, and where said common
           land is maintained by the City, private management or a homeowners’
           association.

PCC § 10-1-4. A development agreement required by Section 10-14-2.B contains a list
of things that amount to additional restrictions on development as a PUD. However, as
anticipated in the term’s definition, there are also some benefits available to a PUD not
otherwise available to conventional developments. For instance, the permitted densities
allowed in a PUD can be up to “110% of density allowed in the use chart for the zone in
which the PUD will be built.” PCC § 10-14-2.C. Also, Section 10-14-2.D adds permitted
uses for residential, commercial, and recreation facilities within a PUD that individually
might not otherwise be permitted in a particular zoning district. City Code contains some
other provisions that provide special benefits to PUDs.13

Because PUDs are provided in addition to other conventional development methods in
each of the City’s zoning districts, and because PUDs provide special benefits that may
be bargained for by the applicant not otherwise available to them, the City Code’s
requirement for a development agreement in the PUD process does not violate state law
because it is entered into voluntarily with consideration negotiated at arm’s length, with
available development alternatives.

     B. City may not subject all conventional subdivisions to required development
        agreement.

The other provision in City Code requiring a development agreement is found in the
section for “Final Plat” under the chapter on Subdivision Regulations, which reads as
follows: “Development Agreement: The developer shall enter into and sign an agreement
with the City, which shall indicate a timetable for completion of the final improvements as
listed in the preliminary and final plat. This agreement will be submitted to the City Council
for approval.” PCC § 11-3-3.

Because this provision applies to all subdivisions, it suggests that as every conventional
subdivision within the municipality must enter into a development agreement with the city
to obtain approval, the subdivision applicant is essentially subject to whatever time table
for improvement completion the City is willing to agree to; otherwise, final plat approval
cannot be obtained. Pursuant to Section 10-9a-532(2)(c) of LUDMA, this provision is
unenforceable, as it requires a development agreement as the only option for developing
property within the municipality, and places the entire administrative approval process on
one completely discretionary decision by the City.

As a side note, an agreement solely indicating a timetable for improvement completion
appears to be unnecessary under local ordinance and state law. This is because, as
mentioned, the applicant must either install necessary improvements or provide
13 See, for example, PCC § 8-1-21 (exceptions made to PUDs for some water availability requirements under certain

circumstances).

Advisory Opinion – Fox Hollow / Providence
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 10 of 11
assurance for required improvements prior to final plat approval, and state law and local
ordinance otherwise provide for the expiration of approved final plats should they not be
carried out within a reasonable amount of time. See UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(e) (the
continuing validity of a land use approval is conditioned upon the applicant proceeding to
implement the approval with reasonable diligence); see also, PCC § 11-3-3.G(2) (“An
approved final plat shall be void if it is not recorded within one (1) year of approval . . . by
the City Council.”).

     C. Fox Hollow was reviewed as a conventional development and cannot be subjected
        to a mandatory development agreement.

The City’s staff reports and minutes never make a direct reference to the particular use
from the City’s use chart that is applied to the project, but because the project does not
appear to have been reviewed under special development standards, it is assumed that
it was processed simply as a conventional subdivision, and not as a PUD, for multiple-
family dwellings as a permitted use in the MFM zone, which allows for “Multi-family
residential type uses.” PCC § 10-4-1.

According to City Code’s use chart, the MFM allows all forms of attached dwellings,
including single-, two-, three-, four-, as well as multi-family (5 or more), dwellings. PCC §
10-6-1. Additionally, the use chart also lists two special development types in the MFM
zone that employ multi-family dwellings, “Cluster development,” and “Planned Unit
Development.” Id. What is puzzling, however, is that City Code’s definitions for these two
uses are verbatim, See PCC § 10-1-4, but in the MFM zone, PUDs are listed as a
permitted use while cluster developments are listed as a conditional use. PCC § 10-6-1.

Ironically, Fox Hollow’s project also meets this shared definition of Planned Unit
Development or Cluster Housing,14 and intuitively the project’s proposed use could be
characterized as either. But while the two types of development are identical in definition,
they do each have their own special development standards. City Code contains a
chapter on “Special Developments,” which includes separate sections for either “Cluster
And Inner Block Development,” PCC § 10-14-1, or “Planned Unit Developments,” PCC §
10-14-2. The most notable difference between the two standards are the special benefits
available to PUDs, such as the density bonus, and the accompanying PUD requirement
for a development agreement, whereas in cluster developments, density may not be
increased, though no development agreement is required for the other variations to
conventional standards inherent in the term’s definition, which instead are likely
considered by imposing reasonable conditions when under review for approval of the
conditional use permit.




14 Both terms, as provided in the definitions section, are defined as “A development of land consisting of separate

residential lots of record where conventional setbacks, lot sizes or density may be varied with adjacent land in
common, usually as open space, and where said common land is maintained by the City, private management or a
homeowners’ association.” PCC § 10-1-4. This definition is applicable to Fox Hollow’s property as it proposes, in
addition to the multi-family dwellings, adjacent common areas that will be maintained by an HOA.

Advisory Opinion – Fox Hollow / Providence
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 11 of 11
Nothing in the City’s record suggests that Fox Hollow’s project was reviewed and
approved as either a PUD or a Cluster Development,15 mostly because Fox Hollow does
not appear to be taking advantage of any density or other benefits available to a PUD
(again noting that it proposed 33 lots at a density of 11.83 whereas the MFM zone allows
a maximum of 12 units/acre), See PCC § 10-8-1, and has not otherwise been subject to
conditional use proceedings necessary for Cluster Development.

Under state law, the City cannot require a development agreement for all conventional
subdivisions as the only method for developing in the City, but may require a development
agreement for a PUD where the applicant has bargained for special benefits available to
PUDs. Fox Hollow’s project proposed a multi-family residential development as a
permitted use in the MFM zone, and did not take advantage of any special bargained-for
benefits as a PUD. Therefore, it cannot be subject to a development agreement to obtain
final plat approval as a conventional subdivision.

                                                   CONCLUSION

The Fox Hollow townhome project received preliminary approval as conventional
subdivision that did not take advantage of any special PUD benefits, and it is entitled to
final plat approval without the need for a development agreement. Fox Hollow may
therefore choose to provide assurance for the city’s required infrastructure improvements
to obtain final plat approval, and the City may not withhold a building permit on the basis
of its own subdivision improvement standards inasmuch as Fox Hollow at least completes
improvements necessary to meet fire and building code requirements as found in state
law.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




15 While one of the citations in Fox Hollow’s submissions is to Section 10-14-2 (PUD standards) as the source of the

development requirement it was being subject to, that appears to be an isolated instance, as the City has only ever cited
Section 11-3-3, applicable to final plats for all subdivisions, as the source of the required development agreement.

Advisory Opinion – Fox Hollow / Providence
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 12 of 11
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code.
It does not constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the
opinions or policy of the State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The
opinions expressed are arrived at based on a summary review of the factual
situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may not reflect the
opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his
understanding of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in
this matter. Anyone with an interest in these issues who must protect that
interest should seek the advice of his or her own legal counsel and not rely
on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or advance his
interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
is not binding on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same
issue that is the subject of an advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in
litigation, and that cause of action is litigated on the same facts and
circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of
action from the date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the
court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil penalty may also be available if the
court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use applicant or a
government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and
the opinions, writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the
Property Rights Ombudsman are not admissible as evidence in a judicial
action, except in small claims court, a judicial review of arbitration, or in
determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process.
Advisory Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and
avoid litigation. All of the statutory procedures in place for Advisory
Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the Office of the Property Rights
Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to resolve disputes
in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion attorney
fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah
Code, are also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are
awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if those circumstances are
met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award them.
