                       Advisory Opinion 218
                                   Parties: Tony Tippetts / Millcreek City
                                             Issued: March 3, 2020

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                Compliance with Land Use Ordinances

                                       Interpretation of Ordinances

Design standards, when they could be interpreted to conflict with express
substantive code requirements, should be interpreted as purpose language. The
City was incorrect in interpreting the design standard requiring subdivisions to be
designed according to the character of surrounding development so as to allow
the City to impose lot frontage requirements greater than the express minimums of
the code by determining that the surrounding development’s character establishes
some other requirement. Since the lot frontages in the property owner’s proposed
development comply with the express lot frontage requirements in the City’s
Municipal Code, his development proposal is entitled to approval in that regard.


                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                            CHRIS PARKER                   JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
 SPENCER J. COX             Interim Executive Director     Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                                         ADVISORY OPINION


        Advisory Opinion Requested By:                        Tony Tippetts

        Local Government Entity:                              City of Millcreek

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:                      Tony Tippetts

        Type of Property:                                     Residential Subdivision

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:                        March 3, 2020

        Opinion Authored By:                                  Richard B. Plehn, Attorney
                                                              Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                               ISSUE

        Can Millcreek City use a design standard requiring subdivisions and conditional uses to be
        designed according to the character of surrounding development to modify an express lot
        frontage requirement in the City’s Municipal Code?

                                             SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

        Millcreek City’s municipal code design standards require lot arrangements to be designed
        according to the “character of surrounding development, and to existing requirements.” While
        development “character” is not defined by the municipal code, Millcreek City has interpreted
        development “character” to be limited to four characteristics only—lot frontage, lot area, lot
        width, and lot depth. As to these characteristics, the zoning code provides minimum lot
        requirements for area and width according to each zone. The City has interpreted the design
        standard requiring subdivisions to be designed according to the character of surrounding
        development so as to allow the City to impose lot frontage requirements greater than the express
        minimums of the code by determining that the surrounding development’s character establishes
        some other requirement.
Design standards, when they could be interpreted to conflict with express substantive code
requirements, should be interpreted as purpose language. A municipality may not deny a
subdivision application, or modify express lot frontage requirements in the municipality’s code,
based upon a policy determination that the proposed development does not match the character
of surrounding development when the proposed lots comply with the minimum requirements
specified in the code for that particular zone. Since the lot frontages in Mr. Tippetts’ proposed
development comply with the express lot frontage requirements in the Millcreek Municipal
Code, his development proposal is entitled to approval in that regard.

                                                     REVIEW

A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Title 13, Chapter 43, Section
205 of the Utah Code. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty
to exhaust administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a
land use application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an
issue. It is hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a
fair and neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as
explained at the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving
such issues in the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Tony Tippetts on January 7, 2020. A copy
of that request was sent via certified mail to Jeff Silvestrini, Mayor of the City of Milcreek, 3330
South 1300 East, Milcreek Utah 84016 on January 9, 2020.

                                                    EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

      1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Tony Tippetts received January 7, 2020,
         and subsequent additional information.
      2. Letter submitted by John N. Brems, Millcreek City Attorney, received January 17, 2020,
         including Planning Commission Staff Report SD-19-014.

                                                   BACKGROUND

Tony Tippetts proposes to subdivide his property located at 3675 South Craig Circle in Millcreek
City (“City”) to five lots. According to Salt Lake County records the Property consists of four
parcels that have a combined acreage of approximately 1.9 acres and has an existing dwelling
located on the Property. The Property is in the R-1-8 zone.

The Millcreek Municipal Code provides that the planning commission “may adopt development
standards for use as a guide in conditional use review and subdivision design.” 1 Under Title 18
“Subdivisions” of the Municipal Code, design standards are established for lot arrangement and
1
    MILLCREEK MUNICIPAL CODE § 19.02.120.
Advisory Opinion – Tippetts v. City of Millcreek
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 3, 2020 Page 2 of 6
design, and provide that lots shall be “properly designed according to topography, the character
of surrounding development, and to existing requirements.”2 The Municipal Code requires a
minimum lot width within the R-1-8 zone of “65 feet at a distance 25 feet from the front lot
line.”3

On October 18, 2019, Mr. Tippetts filed a Land Use & Development Application for his
proposed five-lot subdivision. The proposed lots of the subdivision all met the required minimum
lot widths in the Municipal Code of 65 feet. On December 7, 2019, the City contacted Mr.
Tippetts and informed him that his lot frontages did not match the character of surrounding
development. The City provided Mr. Tippetts a comparison document constituting a map image
showing his property and surrounding lots marked with numbers indicating the width in feet of
each lot. The comparison document also defined selected area surrounding his property.

The City explained that according to the comparison, 34 lots were wholly or partially included in
the 300 foot perimeter area surrounding his property, with an average lot frontage of 89.5 feet in
width. The City told Mr. Tippetts that he should limit his proposed subdivision to four lots as
opposed to five, and that he needed to match the lots with the character of surrounding
development by ensuring a minimum of 70 foot lot widths and meeting the average frontage of
89.5 feet. The City cited Section 18.20.040 of the Municipal Code to require the additional
frontage above the zone minimums.

The map image provided to Mr. Tippetts shows at least three properties in the define area with lot
frontages less than 70 feet. The City discounted the relevance of the smaller lots alleging they all
front on 2700 East, a minor arterial street. The City determined these were of a different
character than the lots fronting on local streets. However, the map image also shows other larger
frontages along that same street, up to 100 feet in width, but these properties seem to have been
included in the average, rather than excluded with their immediate neighbors of smaller widths,
without any explanation.

On December 18, 2019, the Millcreek Planning Commission heard the application and reviewed
a Planning Commission Staff Report regarding the subdivision. The Staff Report found that the
subdivision meets all the express requirements in the code, but that it did not match the character
of the surrounding development. The Staff Report generally summarized the lot comparison, but
provided no explanation on how it defined the surrounding area, or how it determined to include
or exclude certain properties to define character. The Planning Commission motioned to
“continue the subdivision application…until a more suitable and compatible development can be
proposed based on staff findings located in the staff report.”4

Following the meeting, in response to Mr. Tippetts’ request that the City provide him more
specific instructions on how to move forward, the City told Mr. Tippetts to revise his subdivision
plat to conform more to the character of the neighborhood to meet the design standards
requirement in the Municipal Code regarding subdivision.


2
  MILLCREEK MUNICIPAL CODE § 18.20.040.
3
  MILLCREEK MUNICIPAL CODE § 19.14.040.
4
  Minutes of the Millcreek Planning Commission December 18, 2019, page 6.
Advisory Opinion – Tippetts v. City of Millcreek
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 3, 2020 Page 3 of 6
Mr. Tippetts has requested that the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman provide an
Advisory Opinion to determine whether his land use application is entitled to approval under
applicable law, and whether the City is correctly interpreting its ordinances to require lot
dimensions in excess of the minimums provided by Code based on a determination that the
character of surrounding development may establish different requirements.

                                                   ANALYSIS

When interpreting the meaning of ordinances, the standard rules of statutory construction apply.5
Looking to the plain language of the ordinance is considered the first step of interpretation.6 The
primary goal is “to give effect to the legislative intent, as evidenced by the plain language, in
light of the purpose the statute was meant to achieve.”7 Because zoning ordinances are “in
derogation of a property owner's common-law right to unrestricted use of his or her property,
provisions therein restricting property uses should be strictly construed, and provisions
permitting property uses should be liberally construed in favor of the property owner.”8

Chapter 18.20 of the Millcreek Municipal Code contains “Design Standards” for subdivisions.
The section regarding lots reads as follows:

      A. The lot arrangement and design shall be such that lots will provide satisfactory and
          desirable sites for buildings and be properly designed according to topography, the
          character of surrounding development, and to existing requirements.
      B. All lots shown on the preliminary and final plats must conform to the minimum
          requirements of the zoning title, if any, for the zone in which the subdivision is located,
          and to the minimum requirements of the health department for water supply and sewage
          disposal.
        9
      …

Design standards in a local ordinance usually express general principles and purposes.
Sometimes, design standards contain defined, substantive requirements that may be plainly and
unambiguously applied to a development proposal. More often, design standards simply contain
aspirational or precatory language intended to guide the developer as they configure the layout
and setup of their development. This latter type of language should be treated as purpose
language, as opposed to language that conveys definite, substantive requirements.

In Price Development Co. v. Orem City,10 the court discussed the role of legislative statements of
purpose as opposed to operative provisions. Many ordinances and statutes contain distinct
sections of purpose that serve as a ‘preamble’ to the operative provisions of a statute. “[Such
language] is nothing more than a statement of policy which confers no substantive rights.” 11 The
court explained that these provisions “provide guidance to the reader as to how the act should be
5
  Brendle v. City of Draper, 937 P.2d 1044, 1047 (Utah Ct. App. 1997).
6
  Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98, ¶ 30, 104 P.3d 1208.
7
  Foutz v. South Jordan, 2004 UT 75, ¶ 11, 100 P.3d 1171.
8
  Patterson v. Utah County Bd. of Adjustment, 893 P.2d 602, 606 (Utah Ct. App. 1995).
9
  MILLCREEK MUNICIPAL CODE § 18.20.040.
10
   Price Dev. Co. v. Orem, 2000 UT 26, ¶ 23, 995 P.2d 1237.
11
   Id.
Advisory Opinion – Tippetts v. City of Millcreek
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 3, 2020 Page 4 of 6
enforced and interpreted, but they are not a substantive part of the statute.”12 Accordingly, these
provisions “may be used to clarify ambiguities, but they do not create rights that are not found
within the statute, nor do they limit those actually given by the legislation.”13

Here, this is the role that the character language in the Municipal Code’s Design Standards plays.
The plain language of the Design Standards states that “lot arrangement and design shall be such
that lots will provide satisfactory and desirable sites for buildings and be properly designed
according to topography, the character of surrounding development, and to existing
requirements.”14 This is purpose language. It does not contain any unambiguous, substantive
requirements that may be objectively applied to a development proposal. The Design Standards,
by their plain language, do not impose independent substantive requirements of design and
character, but give purpose to the specific, substantive standards contained elsewhere in the
Municipal Code.

Moreover, the Municipal Code does not contain an express definition of development
“character,” but the City has attempted to define it, apparently by internal policy, as limited to
four characteristics only—lot frontage, lot area, lot width, and lot depth.15 The City applies the
Design Standard as an independent requirement that possesses enough substantive weight to
form the sole basis of approval or denial of a development proposal, even when the proposal
complies with express dimensional requirements in the Municipal Code.

In Mr. Tippetts’ case, the City has told him that he must adhere to a subjective standard created
by the character of surrounding development, even though his proposal complies with the
written, minimum lot requirements in the Municipal Code. These new requirements cannot be
discerned by reference to city ordinances, but originate from the discernment of planning
authorities.

Since the Municipal Code does not define “character,” the City may not, by internal policy,
attach a seemingly objective definition to a term that is otherwise inherently subjective. Where
character is undefined, the substantive requirements of the Municipal Code, such as codified
minimum lot frontage requirements, determine the community’s character. Section 19.14.040 of
the Municipal Code expressly provides that the minimum lot width for a lot in the R-1-8 zone is
“65 feet at a distance 25 feet from the front line.” Since Mr. Tippetts’ proposal meets this
requirement, it, by definition, meets the character of the surrounding community, and is entitled
to approval.

                                                   CONCLUSION

Land use ordinances restricting the use of property are strictly construed, and provisions
permitting property use are liberally construed in favor of the property owner. Moreover, a city
must interpret its code according to the code’s plain language, and not by internal policy.


12
   Id.
13
   Id.
14
   MILLCREEK MUNICIPAL CODE 18.20.040.
15
   Letter submitted by John N. Brems, Millcreek City Attorney, page 4, received January 17, 2020.
Advisory Opinion – Tippetts v. City of Millcreek
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 3, 2020 Page 5 of 6
In this case, the City has incorrectly treated its Design Standards as substantive requirements,
and interpreted its provisions to require greater restrictions on property use. The City’s Design
Standards should be interpreted as providing purpose, as opposed to imposing greater restrictions
than what the express provisions of the Municipal Code already require. Since Mr. Tippetts’
proposed lot frontages comply with the express requirements of the Municipal Code, his
application is entitled to approval.



Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Tippetts v. City of Millcreek
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 3, 2020 Page 6 of 6
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in UTAH CODE § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:


                             Mayor Jeff Silvestrini
                             City of Millcreek
                             3330 South 1300 East
                             Millcreek, Utah 84016


 On this ___________ day of March 2020, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
