                     Advisory Opinion #237
                     Parties: South Valley Large Animal Clinic, Saratoga Springs
                                        Issued: March 9, 2021

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                        Exactions on Development

An ordinance mandating that a property owner bury all powerlines in order to obtain a building
permit serves a legitimate public purpose and is an enforceable land use regulation. However,
this requirement is also an exaction and must satisfy the “rough proportionality test” to withstand
an unconstitutional takings challenge as applied to a particular development. In this case, the
City required the developer to bury a pre-existing distribution powerline serving the surrounding
area, including extensive work on adjacent properties, in connection with the construction of a
veterinary clinic.

The City’s requirement to bury powerlines, as applied in this case, requires the developer to pay
nearly $90,000 for off-site improvements alone, in addition to the $350,000 in on-site costs.
This exaction appears unconstitutionally excessive given the limited impact the addition of the
clinic to the electric grid will pose, and that the upgrades are to pre-existing lines serving the
larger community.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                             State of Utah
                             Department of Commerce
   SPENCER J. COX            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
      Governor
                             MARGARET W. BUSSE         JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON          Executive Director         Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION
         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                South Valley Large Animal Clinic

         Local Government Entity:                      City of Saratoga Springs

         Applicant for Land Use Approval:              Subdivision, building permit for veterinary clinic

         Type of Property:                             Agricultural

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                March 9, 2021

         Opinion Authored By:                          Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       ISSUE
         Does the City’s requirement to bury power lines in conjunction with the Clinic’s development
         proposal constitute an excessive and unconstitutional exaction of the developer’s property?

                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
         An ordinance mandating that a property owner bury all powerlines in order to obtain a building
         permit serves a legitimate public purpose and is an enforceable land use regulation. However, this
         requirement is also an exaction and must satisfy the “rough proportionality test” to withstand an
         unconstitutional takings challenge as applied to a particular development. In this case, the City
         required the developer to bury a pre-existing distribution powerline serving the surrounding area,
         including extensive work on adjacent properties, in connection with the construction of a
         veterinary clinic.

         The city’s requirement to bury powerlines, as applied in this case, requires the developer to pay
         nearly $90,000 for off-site improvements alone, in addition to the $350,000 in on-site costs. This
         exaction appears unconstitutionally excessive given the limited impact the addition of the clinic to
         the electric grid will pose, and that the upgrades are to pre-existing lines serving the larger
         community.
                                                                         REVIEW
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205. An
advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or other
specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such a
review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and
understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Mr. Brent Bateman of Durham Jones &
Pinegar representing South Valley Large Animal Clinic on May 27, 2020. A copy of that request
was mailed to Mark Christensen, City Manager, City of Saratoga Springs, 1307 N. Commerce
Drive, Suite 200, Saratoga Springs, Utah 84045.

                                                                    EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

      1. Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Mr. Brent Bateman of Durham Jones
         & Pinegar representing South Valley Large Animal Clinic on May 27, 2020
      2. Response by Maren Barker, Assistant City Attorney, City of Saratoga Springs, July 16,
         2020.
      3. Response by Brent Bateman, Durham Jones & Pinegar, July 27, 2020.
      4. Response by Maren Barker, Assistant City Attorney, City of Saratoga Springs, August 13,
         2020.

                                                                BACKGROUND

In November, 2018, the City of Saratoga Springs (the “City”) issued a building permit to South
Valley Large Animal Clinic (the “Clinic”) to construct a veterinary hospital on property located at
400 N. Redwood Road, Saratoga Springs (the “Subject Property”).

In conjunction with the veterinary hospital construction, the Clinic is required to bury a pre-
existing distribution powerline which runs along the eastern edge of the Subject Property adjacent
to Redwood Road. The powerline is owned by Rocky Mountain Power and provides electrical
distribution to surrounding properties. Because of the size, location, and use of the line, to bury
the powerline on the Subject Property, it must also be buried or otherwise adjusted on the
neighboring properties to the north and south.

Rocky Mountain Power does not need or desire the lines to be buried, and has enforced their long-
standing policy to require whomever requests to bury lines to pay 100% of the cost to bury the
lines.

Advisory Opinion – South Valley Large Animal Clinic / Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 9, 2021 Page 2 of 9
Prior to construction of the veterinary clinic, the Subject Property was used for farming. At that
time, there were no buildings on the property. Also, there were no roads, driveways, or public
access points to the property. The animal clinic has now been built and is currently in operation.
The Clinic and the City have entered into a development agreement which requires the Clinic to
bury the powerline, and the Clinic maintains they will still abide by their contractual obligation,
but to date, the work has not been completed.

The Clinic is not objecting to burying the powerline on its own property, but challenges the City’s
requirement to bury the powerline on adjacent properties. The total cost to bury the powerline is
estimated to be $436,948, of which $88,741 is attributed to off-site work and thus objected to.1

The Clinic argues that the need to bury and/or accommodate burying the powerline on adjacent
property exceeds the impact the veterinary clinic will impose on the community and is thus an
unconstitutional exaction and taking of property.

The City argues that it has authority to enact ordinances it deems necessary or appropriate to
provide for the health, safety, and welfare, as well as the good order, comfort, convenience, and
aesthetics within the community and therefore, the requirement is legal. Furthermore, the City
argues that benefits from the exaction do not need to accrue solely to the developer, and also, that
because the Clinic agreed to bury the powerlines in a negotiated development agreement, the
requirement is legal.

The Clinic has requested this Advisory Opinion to determine whether the City ordinance requiring
the burying powerlines constitutes an illegal exaction as applied to the Clinic development.

                                                                     ANALYSIS
      I.          The legal standard for development exactions

Saratoga Springs’ requirement that the Clinic bury the powerline is a development exaction. A
development exaction “is a government-mandated contribution of property imposed as a
condition” of development approval.2 Exactions arise from the principle that development causes
impacts to a community. In order to address and offset these impacts, the community may require
dedication of land or construction of public resources such as roadways, sidewalks, and power
distribution systems. Such mandatory dedications implicate the Takings Clause of the U.S.


1
  The record includes some ambiguity; however, it appears that burying the powerline will affect a total of seven power
poles. Three on-site poles will need to be removed and the line buried. One pole to the north is preferred to be
removed to avoid the inefficiency of bringing the lines out of the ground only to rebury them again immediately. If
that pole is not removed, changes to the pole will need to be made to accommodate the burial of the lines and conduit
added. Three additional power poles on the property to the south will also be affected: one steel pole will be removed,
one 55’ DE pole installed, and a DE lower circuit installed on a third pole. The Clinic will pay an estimated
$436,947.72 to bury the powerline, including both on-site and off-site work done both by both Rocky Mountain power
and prep work by the developer. A total of $88,740.66 is attributed to the off-site work done by Rocky Mountain
Power.
2
  B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, (BAM III), 2012 UT 26, ¶16.

Advisory Opinion – South Valley Large Animal Clinic / Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 9, 2021 Page 3 of 9
Constitution and Article I Section 22 of the Utah Constitution, which both protect private property
from governmental taking without just compensation.

Development exactions are legal and appropriate only if they are “roughly proportionate” to the
impact the development creates. These principles governing exactions are derived from the U.S.
Supreme Court’s landmark decisions in Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n3 and Dolan v. City
of Tigard4 which the Utah Legislature has distilled and codified in UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1).
The analysis has been termed the “rough proportionality test,” and provides:

            A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in
            a land use application . . ., if:

            (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
                exaction; and,
            (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact
                of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1). If a proposed exaction satisfies this test, and is otherwise legal, it is
valid. If the exaction fails the test, it violates protections guaranteed by the Takings Clauses of the
Utah and U.S. Constitutions and is illegal.5

An exaction is valid and proportionate only when it offsets the costs of a development’s impact,
and no more. An excessive exaction requires a property owner to pay for impacts beyond his own.6
A principal objective of the test is to “bar Government from forcing some people alone to bear
public burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.”7

The Utah Supreme Court has provided guidance on how to analyze rough proportionality. In
B.A.M. II, the Court explained that the rough proportionality analysis articulated above “has two
aspects: first, the exaction and impact must be related in nature; second, they must be related in
extent.”8 The “nature” aspect focuses on the relationship between the anticipated impact and
proposed exaction. The court described the approach “in terms of a solution and a problem….
[T]he impact is the problem, or the burden which the community will bear because of the
development. The exaction should address the problem. If it does, then the nature component has
been satisfied.”9

The “extent” aspect of the rough proportionality analysis measures the impact against the proposed
exaction in terms of cost.10 “The most appropriate measure is cost—specifically, the cost of the
exaction and the impact to the developer and the municipality, respectively.” The court explained


3
  Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825 (1987).
4
  Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994).
5
  Call v. West Jordan, 614 P.2d 1257, 1259 (Utah 1980).
6
  Banberry Development Corporation v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899, 903 (Utah 1981).
7
  Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960).
8
  B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County (BAM II), 2008 UT 74, at ¶9.
9
  Id. at ¶10.
10
   Id. at ¶11

Advisory Opinion – South Valley Large Animal Clinic / Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 9, 2021 Page 4 of 9
that “roughly proportional” means “roughly equivalent.”11 Thus, in order to be valid, the cost of
an exaction must be roughly equivalent to the cost that a local government would incur to mitigate
impacts attributable to development.

Accordingly, even though the City’s Code allows—even directs—the City to require developers
to bury powerlines, the City’s requirement that the Clinic specifically construct the off-site
powerline improvements must satisfy the rough proportionality test to be valid. The proposed
exactions must solve a problem the development creates. Moreover, the costs to the Clinic to
construct these improvements must be proportionate to the impacts the development imposes on
the City’s ability to provide services.

Finally, the City has the burden to show the proposed exactions are proportionate, or equivalent,
to the development’s impacts and therefore valid. Note that “[n]o precise mathematical
calculation is required, but the city must make some sort of individualized determination that the
required dedication is related both in nature and extent to the impact of the proposed
development.”12

Accordingly, we analyze the City’s reasons for imposing the exaction to determine “whether [their]
findings are constitutionally sufficient to justify the conditions imposed” on construction of the
clinic.13

II.         Off-site powerline improvements are excessive

            A.          Essential link exists between legitimate governmental interest and exaction

The first part of UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1) requires an essential link between a legitimate
governmental interest and the exaction imposed. The City Council found that “public health,
safety, convenience, and welfare require that electrical distribution and telephone lines be
constructed underground in an orderly manner” requiring underground installation of all
“electrical, telecommunications cables, substations, lines, wires, poles, and facilities that (a)
provide direct service to property being developed; (b) are existing and located within the
boundaries of the property being developed . . .”14 The City maintains that burying powerlines
decreases the risk of fires and accidents from downed powerlines and eliminates weather-related
outages in addition to providing aesthetic benefits. The City requires that the developer bear all
costs and facilitate arrangements with the utility company for such improvements.

Promoting community safety and aesthetics is a valid government interest. “The purposes of
[UTAH CODE Title 10, Chapter 9a] are to provide for the health, safety, and welfare, and promote
the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of
each municipality. . ..”15 Moreover, there is an essential link between the City’s legitimate interest
in promoting aesthetics and reducing fire risk and downed powerlines and its requirement that the

11
   Id. at ¶8.
12
   See Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391-92.
13
   Id. at 389.
14
   Saratoga Springs Land Development Code, 19.13.10.
15
   UTAH CODE §10-9a-102.

Advisory Opinion – South Valley Large Animal Clinic / Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 9, 2021 Page 5 of 9
developer bury the powerlines along an arterial roadway. Accordingly, the essential link portion
of the rough proportionality test is satisfied.

            B.          Nature and Extend aspect of the rough proportionality test

The next step in the rough proportionality test requires that “each exaction is roughly
proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the proposed development.”16

The nature aspect of the rough proportionality test requires an exaction provide a solution to a
problem the proposed development presents. The Clinic constructed a veterinary clinic. City
ordinances require that powerlines be buried in conjunction with new development. The Clinic
does not dispute the requirement to bury the powerlines on-site which cannot be buried without
the off-site improvements. Therefore, the off-site improvements directly provide a solution to the
problem the proposed development creates. Therefore, the nature aspect of the test is satisfied.17

However, the exaction appears to exceed the extent aspect of the rough proportionality test. The
City must “compare the government’s cost of alleviating the development’s impact on
infrastructure with the cost to [the developer] of the exaction.”18 The exaction appears to exceed
the impact of the development.

To illustrate the proper extent analysis, we have only a single example from the Utah Supreme
Court. In the B.A.M. III19 case, the Court held that requiring the dedication of 13 feet of right of
way for the expansion of an adjacent roadway as a condition of approval of a fifteen-acre
residential subdivision was a legal exaction. In that case, the value of the dedicated property was
estimated at $83,997, while road-widening projects in the vicinity intended to alleviate generalized
increased traffic cost an estimated $6,748,700. Traffic engineers further estimated that increased
traffic from the planned subdivision represented 5% of the total traffic increase. Simple algebra
concludes that the impact of the proposed development was therefore 5% of the total $6,748,700
in road improvement projects, which is $337,500. As the developer’s total cost for the additional
13 feet dedication was $83,997, the Court concluded that the exaction was less than the impact
and did not violate the extent aspect of the rough-proportionality standard.

In the case at hand, the Clinic estimates that the disputed, off-site improvements to bury the
powerline and/or make other powerline adjustments on the neighboring properties will cost
$88,741, thus putting a dollar value on the exaction.

The City has the burden to show the required $88,741 in off-site electrical improvements are
proportionate, or equivalent, to the veterinary clinic’s impact on the electrical infrastructure, and
therefore valid. Note that “[n]o precise mathematical calculation is required, but the city must



16
   UTAH CODE §10-9a-508(1)(b).
17
   Had the Clinic disputed the requirement to bury the existing distribution powerlines on-site, this analysis may have
come to a different conclusion here.
18
   B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, 2012 UT 26, ¶5, 282 P.3d 41.
19
   Id.

Advisory Opinion – South Valley Large Animal Clinic / Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 9, 2021 Page 6 of 9
make some sort of individualized determination that the required dedication is related both in
nature and extent to the impact of the proposed development.”20

Rather than estimate the monetary cost to the City of the impact of the Clinic, the City argues that
because the undisputed work of burying the on-site powerlines cannot be completed without off-
site improvements, it must be proportional. Unfortunately, while it is apparently factually accurate
to say the undisputed work cannot be done without the disputed work, this argument does not
address the established legal standard.

The City also argues that all benefits derived from the exaction need not accrue solely to the
developer. This is also not a factor in the established legal standard (and not argued by the Clinic)
and does not factor into our analysis.

In many cases, it is difficult for a local government to provide the cost analysis necessary for the
extent aspect of the rough proportionality analysis.21 Accordingly, in this case, the City does not
provide an individualized determination, nor an estimate, of the impact the new veterinary clinic
will have on the electrical infrastructure. The City simply states, without explanation, that “. . .
the expense of completing these [off-site electrical improvements] is considerably less than the
imposition on the community of the Clinic’s development.” Nonetheless, we can use the limited
information available to resolve the dispute.

The Clinic is disputing $88,741 in costs to do off-site work to bury the pre-existing distribution
powerline. The disputed improvements are not tied to power requirements or upgrades necessary
to serve the Clinic, nor to alleviate its impact on the City’s (or Rocky Mountain Power’s) ability
to provide electricity. The affected transmission lines existed before the veterinary hospital was
built, carry power to surrounding properties, and will continue to carry power to surrounding
properties once buried, but now in an “improved” state. The $88,741 in off-site work improves an
area-wide service, and is not intended to alleviate a burden on the electrical infrastructure
construction that the clinic created.

Therefore, requiring the Clinic to construct the off-site improvements exceeds the impact of
development, requires the developer to pay for impacts beyond his own, and therefore cannot
constitute a valid exaction.

III. Development Agreement does not negate a taking

The City contends that because the Clinic committed to provide for these off-site improvements
in a development agreement, the requirement to construct them cannot constitute an illegal
exaction. The City argues that “because development agreements are a product of voluntary
negotiations, they are not subject to the rough proportionality test.”22



20
   See Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391-92.
21
   The full analysis required to show rough proportionality is very impractical to provide, and perhaps impossible. In
fact, after many Advisory Opinions addressing exactions over several years, this Office has seen none.
22
   Saratoga Springs response dated July 16, 2020.

Advisory Opinion – South Valley Large Animal Clinic / Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 9, 2021 Page 7 of 9
We disagree. “Under the well-settled doctrine of ‘unconstitutional conditions,’ the government
may not require a person to give up a constitutional right . . . in exchange for a discretionary benefit
conferred by the government where the benefit sought has little or no relationship to the
property.”23 The Nollan/Dolan “rough proportionality test” ensures preservation of rights
guaranteed by the U.S. and Utah Constitutions24 which cannot be contracted away. Even if the
development agreement were entered into voluntarily, the local government is constitutionally
prohibited from imposing exactions that are disproportionate, without additional consideration.

The City maintains that the City and the Clinic voluntarily entered into a development agreement
entitled Installation of Improvements and Bond Agreement dated December 5, 2019 wherein the
Clinic agreed to install numerous improvements, including “Bury Over Head Power” in return for
permission to construct and operate a veterinary clinic. It appears that the development agreement
formalizes acceptance of the responsibilities outlined in City ordinances regarding burying
powerlines in exchange for a building permit and certificate of occupancy. The development
agreement does not appear to provide some additional benefit to the Clinic, such as a density bonus
or waiver of impact fee, which would offset the financial burden of the offsite electrical
improvements.

Therefore, as analyzed in the preceding sections, requiring the off-site improvements exceeds the
impact of development impacts, even though it was agreed to in a development agreement. Based
on the very limited information provided, it appears that any provision of the development
agreement that requires the off-site improvements discussed herein is unenforceable as an illegal
exaction.


                                                                 CONCLUSION
The U.S. and Utah Constitutions guarantee that private property shall not be taken for public use
without just compensation.25 Accordingly, local governments may mandate the contribution of
private property as a condition of development approval26 but only if the contribution is “roughly
proportionate” to the impact the development creates.27

Saratoga Springs requires that powerlines be buried in connection to any new development.
Because of the size, location, and use of the pre-existing on-site distribution powerline, the
developer of a veterinary hospital must also bury or significantly adjust the lines on the
neighboring properties to the north and south. The cost of the off-site electrical work is estimated
to be $88,471.

A valid exaction must have a close tie to a public burden directly attributable to the impact of the
new development. The City has not established that development of the vet clinic will result in a
$88,471 impact to the local electrical system. The money will be spent burying existing,

23
   Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S. 374, 385.
24
   See B.A.M., 2006 UT 2.
25
   USCS Const. Amend. 5 and Utah Const. Art. 1.
26
   B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, (BAM III), 2012 UT 26, ¶16.
27
   UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1).

Advisory Opinion – South Valley Large Animal Clinic / Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 9, 2021 Page 8 of 9
community-serving powerlines, not to accommodate the additional electrical load caused by the
clinic. Thus, as the exaction exceeds the proposed development’s impact, it is excessive and
unconstitutional. The City may require the property owner to dedicate resources only so far as to
offset the property owner’s own impact.




Jordan Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – South Valley Large Animal Clinic / Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 9, 2021 Page 9 of 9
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based
on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are
also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of Commerce,
Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as designated in that
database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:


                             Mark Christensen, City Manager
                             City of Saratoga Springs
                             1307 North Commerce Drive, Ste. 200
                             Saratoga Springs, Utah 84045


On this ____ Day of________________, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
