                       Advisory Opinion 255
                                      Party: Troy Belnap / Cedar Hills
                                           Issued: May 11, 2022

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                Compliance with Land Use Ordinances

                                       Interpretation of Ordinances

                               Requirements Imposed on Development

Cedar Hills may not lawfully require the property owner to secure an easement
agreement as a condition of receiving a building permit for a fence and a retaining wall
because their ordinances do not require such.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                             State of Utah
                             Department of Commerce
   SPENCER J. COX            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
      Governor
                             MARGARET W. BUSSE       JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON          Executive Director      Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION
         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                 Troy Belnap

         Local Government Entity:                       Cedar Hills

         Applicant for Land Use Approval:               Troy Belnap

         Type of Property:                              Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 May 11, 2022

         Opinion Authored By:                           Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                        Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                         ISSUE
         Where a property owner has applied for a building permit to construct a fence and retaining wall
         within a public utility easement, has the city lawfully conditioned approval on requiring the
         property owner to sign an easement agreement that apportions liability for use of the easement?

                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
         The City has adopted an ordinance requiring property owners seeking to build a “dwelling, main
         building, or permanent accessory building” within an easement to secure an easement agreement
         as a condition to receiving a building permit.

         The property owner in question has requested a building permit for a retaining wall and a fence
         within a public utility easement. Because fences and retaining walls are not a “dwelling, main
         building, or [a] permanent accessory building” the relevant ordinance does not apply. Accordingly,
         the City may not lawfully require the property owner to secure an easement agreement as a
         condition of receiving the requested building permit.

                                                       REVIEW
         A request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final decision
         by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205. An Advisory
         Opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative remedies,
of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or other specific
land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such a review can
help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and understand the
relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this opinion, may have
some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Troy Belnap on July 22, 2021. A copy of
that request was sent via certified mail to Colleen A. Mulvey, City Recorder, City of Cedar Hills,
10246 North Canyon Road, Cedar Hills, Utah 84062 on August 6, 2021.

                                             EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for Advisory Opinion, Troy Belnap on July 22, 2021.
     2. Reply submitted by H. Craig Hall, Esq. representing Cedar Hills, dated August 19, 2021.

                                           BACKGROUND
Troy Belnap (“Belnap”) has submitted a building permit application for landscaping improvements
proposed for his residence located in Cedar Hills (“City”). The improvements include a 6’ fence
and a 4’ block retaining wall which will be built, at least in part, within a public utility easement.

The City is requiring Belnap to secure an easement agreement with the easement holder as a
condition of building permit approval. The required easement agreement stipulates that Belnap
will assume all liability and costs associated with replacing the fence and retaining wall should
they be damaged by utility companies during the course of using the public utility easement.

Belnap does not wish to assume this liability and responsibility. Belnap maintains that the easement
is a public utility easement and liability should be borne by the appropriate utility company.

Belnap has therefore submitted a Request for Advisory Opinion to determine whether the City’s
requirement that Belnap secure an easement agreement as a requirement for issuing a building
permit for the proposed fence and retaining wall is lawful.

                                              ANALYSIS
     I.          City Code requires easement agreement for construction of a dwelling, main
                 building, or permanent accessory building within an easement (not for a fence or
                 retaining wall)




Advisory Opinion – Belnap/Cedar Hills
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 11, 2022 Page 2 of 4
The City has recently passed Ordinance No. 05-04-2021A regulating construction in recorded
easements.1 This Ordinance added language to the City Zoning Regulations stipulating that:

           “No dwelling, main building, or permanent accessory building shall be
           located within a recorded easement area unless the property owner either
           produces evidence satisfactory to the Zoning Administrator that the
           easement has been abandoned or vacated, or executes a recordable
           document, in an application approved by the Chief Building Official and
           Public Works Director or their designees, providing that (i) the property
           where the structure will be placed is subject to an easement (ii) the owner
           of the easement expressly approves the placement of the structure within
           the easement boundaries, (iii) the property owner acknowledges that the
           structure may be required to be relocated, and (iv) the property owner will
           bear all costs of moving the structure, including damage to the property, in
           the event an easement needs to be accessed”2 (emphasis added).

The requirement clearly applies only to the construction of a “dwelling, main building, or
permanent accessory building” within a recorded easement.

Ordinance interpretation requires application of the canons of statutory construction.3 An analysis
of the plain language of the ordinance always comes first,4 with the primary goal “to give effect to
the legislative intent, as evidenced by the plain language, in light of the purpose the statute was
meant to achieve.”5 If the plain language of an ordinance is sufficiently clear, the analysis ends
there.6

In this case, the language of the relevant ordinance is quite clear, and the requirements apply to
the construction of a “dwelling, main building, or permanent accessory building” within an
easement. The City’s Zoning Ordinance includes the following relevant definitions7:

           DWELLING UNIT: one or more rooms in a building designed for living purposes
           (bathing, eating and sleeping), and occupied by one family.

           BUILDING: a roofed and completely walled structure built for permanent use.

           ACCESSORY BUILDING: a subordinate building, the use of which is incidental to that
           of the main building, including, but not limited to, detached garages and storage sheds
           greater than one hundred twenty (120) square.

Therefore, according to the definitions, the relevant ordinance only applies to structures which
include a roof and are completely walled. As neither the fence nor the retaining wall Belnap

1
  Passed and approved May 4th, 2021.
2
  Cedar Hills Zoning Regulations 10-2-40.
3
  Foutz v. City of South Jordan, 2004 UT 75, ¶8.
4
  Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98 ¶30.
5
  Foutz, 2004 UT 75, ¶11.
6
  General Construction & Development, Inc. v. Peterson Plumbing Supply, 2011 UT 1, ¶ 8.
7
  Cedar Hills Zoning Code Section 10-2-1 Definitions.
Advisory Opinion – Belnap/Cedar Hills
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 11, 2022 Page 3 of 4
proposes include a roof, this ordinance would not apply to the building permit application Belnap
has submitted.

Because the language of the relevant regulation does not apply to Belnap’s building permit
application, the City may not lawfully require Belnap to enter into an easement agreement
assuming liability and responsibility for the proposed fence and retaining wall to be constructed in
the public utility easement.8

                                                CONCLUSION
The City has adopted an ordinance requiring property owners seeking to build a “dwelling, main
building, or permanent accessory building” within an easement to secure an easement agreement
as a condition to receiving a building permit.

The property owner in question has requested a building permit for a retaining wall and a fence
within a public utility easement. Because fences and retaining walls are not a “dwelling, main
building, or [a] permanent accessory building” the relevant ordinance does not apply. Accordingly,
the City may not lawfully require the property owner to secure an easement agreement as a
condition of receiving a building permit.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




8
  Because the relevant ordinance does not apply to the current building permit application, we have refrained from
analyzing whether a fictional or possible future ordinance requiring a signed easement agreement between the property
owner and the easement holder in connection to the installation of a fence and/or retaining wall in a public utility
easement would be lawful. We note, however, that UTAH CODE § 54-3-27 (2)(b) addresses and apportions liability
between public utility users and property owners for improvements within easement areas.
Advisory Opinion – Belnap/Cedar Hills
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 11, 2022 Page 4 of 4
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the UTAH CODE. It does not constitute
legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of
Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may not
reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage dispute
resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if those
circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award them.
