                       Advisory Opinion 241
                                   Parties: Troy Green / Weber County
                                             Issued: July 16, 2021

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                        Exactions on Development


The County’s requirement to dedicate a 33-foot wide strip of land for a future right-of-way to serve
future development does not solve a problem created by the property owner’s development
proposal. The property owner’s amended plat simply merges two parcels without changing the
use of the land or increasing the use’s intensity. Requiring the dedication would force the property
owners to offset impacts beyond their own. The requirement therefore fails the applicable rough
proportionality test, and is unlawful. Accordingly, the County may not impose the requirement as
a condition of amended plat approval.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                       1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                            www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                propertyrights@utah.gov
                             State of Utah
                             Department of Commerce
   SPENCER J. COX            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
      Governor
                             MARGARET W. BUSSE     JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON          Executive Director    Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
  Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION
         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                Troy Green

         Local Government Entity:                      Weber County

         Applicant for Land Use Approval:              Troy & Victoria Green

         Type of Property:                             Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                July 16, 2021

         Opinion Authored By:                          Jordan S. Cullimore
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       ISSUE
         Is Weber County’s requirement to dedicate to the County a 33-foot wide strip of land for a future
         road as a condition of approval for an amended plat application a legal exaction?


                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

         The County’s requirement to dedicate a 33-foot wide strip of land for a future right-of-way to serve
         future development does not solve a problem created by the Greens’ development proposal. The
         Greens’ amended plat simply merges two parcels without changing the use of the land or
         increasing the use’s intensity. Requiring the dedication would force the Greens’ to offset impacts
         beyond their own. The requirement therefore fails the applicable rough proportionality test, and is
         unlawful. Accordingly, the County may not impose the requirement as a condition of amended
         plat approval.

                                                     REVIEW
         A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
         decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Title 13, Chapter 43, Section
         205 of the Utah Code. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty
to exhaust administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a
land use application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue.
It is hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the
courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Troy Green, on September 23, 2020. A copy
of that request was sent via certified mail to Ricky D. Hatch, Weber County Clerk/Auditor, 2380
Washington Blvd., STE 320, Ogden, Utah.


                                                EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion submitted by Troy Green on September 23, 2020.
     2. Response submitted by Scott Perkes, Planner for Weber County, received on October 21,
        2020.
     3. Reply submitted by Zane Froerer, Attorney for Troy Green, received April 6, 2021.
     4. Reply submitted by Scott Perkes, Planner for Weber County, received May 3, 2021.


                                              BACKGROUND
Troy and Victoria Green’s home sits on an approximately 5-acre lot located at 7522 East 1400
North in Huntsville, Utah. Recently, the Greens submitted an application to the Weber County
Planning Division to combine their 5-acre lot with an adjacent 0.88-acre strip of land that the
Greens already own and have already been using as part of their property. The purpose of the
proposed merger was to make the property large enough to qualify for tax treatment as a
“greenbelt” parcel.1 The Greens’ did not propose to change the use of the property.

The County approved, with conditions, the Greens’ amended plat application to combine the
parcels in a public Administrative Review Meeting on September 2, 2020. Among the conditions
the County imposed was a requirement to dedicate a 33-foot right-of-way along the full length of
the eastern boundary of the proposed lot for a future roadway that would eventually provide access
to adjacent, undeveloped land. The dedication would comprise approximately 0.6 acre and would
provide for a half-width of the future roadway. The County’s condition only requires dedication of
the land, and does not require installation of any improvements for the road.



1
  See generally Utah Code Chapter 59-2, Part 5. The Utah Farmland Assessment Act, referred to as the “greenbelt
law” is a law that “allows qualifying agricultural property to be assessed and taxed based upon its productive
capabilities instead of the prevailing market value.” “Utah Farmland Assessment Act,” Utah County Assessor, July
15, 2021, available at https://www.utahcounty.gov/dept/assess/new/Greenbelt.html.

Advisory Opinion – Green/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 16, 2021 Page 2 of 7
The Greens view the County’s requirement to dedicate 0.6 acre of the Greens’ land for a roadway
as an excessive, and therefore unlawful, exaction. The County disagrees. Consequently, Mr. Green
submitted a Request for Advisory Opinion to this office asking us to determine whether the
County’s exaction is lawful, in order to resolve the dispute.


                                                    ANALYSIS
I.         Development Exactions Must Satisfy the “Rough Proportionality” Test to be Lawful

The County requirement to dedicate land for a roadway as a condition of amended plat approval
is a development exaction. Utah law defines development exactions as “conditions imposed by
governmental entities on developers for the issuance of [development approval]” that “typically
require the permanent surrender of private property for public use.”2

Exactions implicate the Takings Clause of the U.S. Constitution and Article I Section 22 of the
Utah Constitution, which protect private property from governmental taking without just
compensation. The standard for measuring whether an exaction imposed by a county is lawful is
found at Utah Code § 17-27A-507(1):

           A county may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in a land
           use application…if:

                       (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
                       each exaction; and
                       (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
                       impact of the proposed development.

This standard lays out a two-part “rough proportionality” test for determining whether an imposed
exaction appropriately offsets the impacts of a development proposal. If the proposed exaction
satisfies the legal test, the exaction is a proper exercise of the local government’s police power to
regulate for health, safety, and welfare.3 If, however, the exaction lacks an essential link to a
legitimate government interest, or is disproportionate to the impact of the proposed development,
the exaction is excessive and an unlawful taking of property without compensation.4 A principal
objective of the test is to “bar Government from forcing some people alone to bear public burdens
which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.”5

This test was originally established in the U.S. Supreme Court decisions of Nollan v. California
Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994). The Utah


2
  B.A.M. Dev., LLC v. Salt Lake County (BAM I), 2006 UT 2, ¶ 34.
3
  See Shelley Ross Saxer, Exactions and Impact Fees, 7 Brigham-Kanner Property Rights Conf. J. 77, 83 (2018)
(“Insisting that landowners internalized the negative externalities of their conduct is a hallmark of responsible land-
use policy….”).
4
  See Banberry Development Corporation v. South Jordan City, 631 P..2d 899, 903 (Utah 1981).
5
  Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960).

Advisory Opinion – Green/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 16, 2021 Page 3 of 7
Supreme Court has also provided additional guidance on how to apply this test to a given situation
in B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County (BAM II), 2008 UT 74.

In BAM II, the court explained that the second part of the test—the rough proportionality
analysis—has two aspects: “first, the exaction and impact must be related in nature; second, they
must be related in extent.”6 The “nature” aspect of rough proportionality focuses on the
relationship between the anticipated impact and the proposed exaction. The court described the
approach “in terms of a solution and a problem…. [T]he impact is the problem, or the burden
which the community will bear because of the development. The exaction should address the
problem. If it does, then the nature component has been satisfied.”7

The “extent” aspect of the rough proportionality analysis measures the impact against the proposed
exaction in terms of cost.8 (“The most appropriate measure is cost—specifically, the cost of the
exaction and the impact to the developer and the municipality, respectively.”). The court explained
that “roughly proportional” means “roughly equivalent.”9 Thus, in order to be valid, the cost of an
exaction must be roughly equivalent to the cost that a local government would incur to mitigate
impacts attributable to development.

In a third “B.A.M.” decision, the Utah Supreme Court summarized the entire analysis, firmly tying
a proposed exaction to infrastructure needs created by the development:

           [N]ot only must the nature of an exaction relate to government purpose or need (in
           that the exaction must alleviate the burdens imposed on infrastructure by the
           development), but the extent of the exaction must also be roughly proportional to
           the government’s need for infrastructure improvements created by the
           development.10

Accordingly, the County’s requirement that the Greens dedicate thirty-three feet of land for a
future right-of-way must satisfy all parts of the rough proportionality test to be lawful.

Finally, the City possesses the burden to show the proposed exaction is proportionate to the
development’s impacts.11 “No precise mathematical calculation is required, but the city must
make some sort of individualized determination that the required dedication is related both in
nature and extent to the impact of the proposed development.”12

Accordingly, we will analyze the County’s reasons for imposing the dedication requirement to
determine “whether [their] findings are constitutionally sufficient to justify the conditions
imposed” on the Greens’ amended plat application.13


6
  Id. at ¶ 9.
7
  Id. at ¶ 10.
8
  Id. at ¶ 11
9
  Id. at ¶ 8.
10
   B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2012 UT 26.
11
   See Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391-92.
12
   Id. at 391 (emphasis added).
13
   Id. at 389.

Advisory Opinion – Green/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 16, 2021 Page 4 of 7
II.        An Essential Link Exists between the County’s Proposed Exaction and a Legitimate
           Government Interest

The first part of Utah Code section § 17-27A-507(1) requires an essential link between a legitimate
governmental interest and the imposed exaction. In this case, the County’s legitimate
governmental interest is safe and efficient access and traffic flow. Constructing new roadways is
a vital component in accomplishing this objective.14 Requiring roads to serve proposed
development satisfies this interest. Accordingly, the County’s dedication requirement complies
with the first part of the rough proportionality test.

III.       The County’s Dedication Requirement Fails the Nature Aspect of the Rough
           Proportionality Analysis

Next, we turn to the second requirement under Utah Code § 17-27A-507(1)—that the proposed
exaction be “roughly proportionate…to the impact of the proposed development.”15 As described
above, this part of the test requires the County, on a case-by-case basis, to “make some sort of
individualized determination that the required [exaction] is related both in nature and extent to the
impact of the proposed development.”16

           A.          The Nature Aspect of Rough Proportionality

The nature aspect of the rough proportionality analysis requires that the proposed exaction solve a
problem, or impact, created by the proposed development. In this case, and for reasons explained
below, the County’s requirement to dedicate land for a future right-of-way to access adjacent land
fails this aspect of the analysis. When a proposed exaction fails to meet any portion of the rough
proportionality test, the exaction is unlawful.

The County, in its submission to our office, states that the purpose of the dedication requirement
is to “preserve the area for a future road” for future development. The County states the area of
the Greens’ land “represents a future north-south road alignment to provide adequate access near
a quarter-section line for adjacent, undeveloped property.”

Nowhere here does the County assert the Greens are changing the use of their land to a more
intense use or creating additional impact on County services to the lot. In fact, it appears undisputed
that the use of the land is not changing at all. Moreover, the county has nowhere indicated the 33-
foot right-of-way is needed to provide access to Mr. Green’s development or address an impact
created by the amended plat proposal. The dedication requirement here will prospectively offset
the impact of some future development proposal with impacts unrelated to the Greens’ current
application.

14
   See Carrier v. Lindquist, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18, 37 P.3d 1112, 1117 (“In order for a government to be effective, it
needs the power to establish or relocate public throughways . . . for the convenience and safety of the general
public.”) See also Utah Code § 10-8-8.
15
   Utah Code § 17-27A-507(1)(b).
16
   Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391.

Advisory Opinion – Green/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 16, 2021 Page 5 of 7
To satisfy the nature aspect of the rough proportionality analysis, the County would need to show
the dedication requirement is addressing a problem created by the Greens’ development proposal.
The County has failed to make this showing.

Because the Greens’ amended plat does not create any new traffic impacts that would need to be
addressed by land dedications for roads, it would be improper for the County to impose a
dedication requirement for right-of-way to ostensibly offsets such impacts. Finally, the dedication
requirement would require the Greens to offset impacts beyond their own, which is also
improper.17

The County cites Weber County Code § 106-2-1(a) as support for its dedication requirement. This
provision states, in relevant part that the street arrangement in subdivisions “must be such as to
cause no unnecessary hardship to owners of adjoining property when they plat their own land and
seek to provide for convenient access to it.”

The Greens have not proposed new street arrangements as part of the amended plat. No one has
indicated the Greens need new streets for access to their property. The County is requiring a
through connection to benefit adjacent, undeveloped land.18 There is no indication here that the
adjacent property owner currently has legal access through the Greens’ land. Accordingly, if the
Greens decline to provide access to that land for whatever reason, it would not cause unnecessary
hardship to the adjacent landowners who have lost nothing.19 The County may not require, as an
exaction, that the Greens’ dedicate right of way to serve adjacent, undeveloped land simply
because the adjacent land does not currently have access.20 This is not an impact created by the
Greens’ development proposal.

The County also cites Weber County Code § 106-2-2(a) to support its position that the Greens
must dedicate the 33-foot right-of-way. This provision states that County may require public
dedication of streets for major or loop road access in “mountain land subdivisions”. Even if the
local code allows the County to require dedication generally, if the requirement violates
constitutional principles when applied to a specific development proposal, as it does here, then the
County may not impose the requirement.21




17
   See Banberry Development Corporation v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899, 903 (Utah 1981).
18
   The County, in its submission, states that an adjacent owner of 196.56 acres of undeveloped property located
immediately to the north of the Greens’ property will need the future roadway for his development. Again, this is an
impact created by the adjacent owner’s future development whenever it develops, and not by the Greens.
19
   Nothing here would prevent the landowners from negotiating for access to the undeveloped land.
20
   This is not to say that the County may not plan for future corridors, limit development in those areas, and acquire
land for future rights-of-way. It is simply to say that when the development proposal at issue doesn’t warrant
acquisition by exaction, as is the case here, the County, or the adjacent landowner seeking access, must potentially
negotiate and pay for the land when they are ready to acquire it. See generally Utah Code Chapter 72-5, Part 4.
21
   See generally B.A.M. Dev., LLC v. Salt Lake County (BAM I), 2006 UT 2 (Noting that exactions resulting from a
legislative scheme, as well as those imposed administratively, are subject to the rough proportionality test.)

Advisory Opinion – Green/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 16, 2021 Page 6 of 7
           B.          Unnecessary to Consider Extent Aspect of Rough Proportionality

Since the County’s requirement to dedicate thirty-three feet of the Greens’ land for a future right-
of-way does not satisfy the nature aspect of the rough proportionality analysis, the requirement
fails the entire rough proportionality test and the County may not legally impose it. Accordingly,
we do not need to consider the extent aspect of the test in this case.


                                               CONCLUSION
The County’s requirement to dedicate thirty-three feet of land for a future right-of-way to serve
future development does not solve a problem created by the Greens’ development proposal and it
would require the Greens’ to offset impacts beyond their own. The requirement therefore fails the
rough proportionality test, and is unlawful. Accordingly, the County may not require the Greens
to dedicate the 33-foot right-of-way as a condition of amended plat approval.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Green/Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 16, 2021 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based
on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are
also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of Commerce,
Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as designated in that
database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:


                             Ricky D. Hatch, County Clerk/Auditor
                             Weber county
                             2380 Washington Blvd., Suite 320
                             Ogden, Utah 84401


On this ___ Day of _____________, 2021, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
