                       Advisory Opinion 251
                          Parties: Oscar Bluth / Swiss Alpine Water Company
                                           Issued: January 20, 2022

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                   Review Within a Reasonable Time

                                               Impact Fees Act

Private water companies providing water services necessary for land development
as the only realistic source of water for its members are subject to certain provisions
of the County Land Use Development and Management Act (“CLUDMA”), which
imposes the same procedural due process requirements on the provider as if it were
a county, including timely review of applications and reasonable diligence in
approving or denying service requests. Additionally, water providers may assess
impact fees for eligible water-related facilities. But where a water company also acts
in additional capacities, including as a homeowner’s association, it is only subject
to CLUDMA and the Impact Fee Act as it relates to the water services it provides,
and not any other private function.

Here, a water company’s prompt denial of a member’s request for services met
CLUDMA’s requirements for timely review and finality of decision, and a road fee
assessed on members was not subject to the Impact Fee Act as it was not an impact
fee for water-related services. The legality of the company’s service denial or fee
assessment, acting in its capacity as an HOA, must otherwise be determined by
other sources of law not within the purview of this opinion.

                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                           (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                        1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                             www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                 propertyrights@utah.gov
