                     Advisory Opinion #285
                                  Parties: Jeffrey Clark; Morgan County
                                         Issued: March 8, 2024

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                             Requirements Imposed Upon Development

The county may not lawfully require the vacation of an extinguished, private right-of-way
as a condition of approval of an amended subdivision plat.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor               MARGARET W. BUSSE        JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                             Executive Director        Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor



                                                  ADVISORY OPINION

         Advisory Opinion Requested by:                Jeffrey Clark

         Local Government Entity:                      Morgan County

         Property Owner:                               Jeffrey Clark

         Type of Property:                             Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                March 8, 2024

         Opinion Authored By:                          Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                                        Issue

         May the county lawfully require the vacation of a 10’ right-of-way as a condition of approval for
         an amended subdivision plat?

                                          Summary of Advisory Opinion

         The label 10’ right-of-way on a recorded subdivision plat does not convey ownership of the area
         to the public. Dedication of land to public use requires a landowner’s objectively manifested desire
         to devote property to public use. The subdivision plat lacks any indication that the 10’ right-of-
         way is surrendered to public ownership. The dedicatory language on the plat mentions only the
         dedication of streets and public utility easements. Because the County does not have rights to the
         10’ right-of-way, there are no rights to vacate.

         Furthermore, the 10’ right-of-way depicts the location of a private right-of-way deeded several
         years before the plat was recorded. Because the same party now owns the servient and dominant
         estates for this private right-of-way, the interests automatically merge, and the right-of-way is
         extinguished under common ownership.

         Therefore, the county may not lawfully require the vacation of an extinguished, private right-of-
         way as a condition of approval of an amended subdivision plat.
                                              Evidence

The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:
          1. Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Jeffrey G. Clark on September 15,
              2023.
          2. Response submitted by Garrett T. Smith; Morgan County Attorney dated November
              21, 2023.
          3. Response submitted by Jeffrey G. Clark on November 21, 2023.
          4. Response by Garrett Smith on behalf of Morgan County received January 3, 2024.

                                             Background
Jeffrey Clark (Property Owner) owns three adjacent parcels of land located at 6137 W. Valley View
Drive in Mountain Green, Utah. Morgan County (County) has oversight over land use and
development applications in this area. The property includes Lot 24 of the Monte Verde
Subdivision No. 1 (Subdivision Plat or Plat), as well as two adjacent parcels that sit immediately
behind Lot 24. Lot 24 is improved with the Property Owner’s residence. The Property Owner
desires to build a garage outbuilding on the rear lots. Garages are permitted only as an ancillary
use. Therefore, the Property Owner is seeking approval of an amended plat which merges the three
parcels into one lot so that the proposed garage will be on the same lot, and ancillary to, the main
residence.
At issue is ownership of a 10’ right-of-way depicted on the Subdivision Plat which runs along the
side of Lot 24 which gives the one lot immediately to the rear access. The County maintains that
the right-of-way has been dedicated to the public and must be either “sold or vacated and divided
between [the owners of Lots 24 and the neighboring Lot]” for the requested subdivision
amendment to be approved.




                   APPROVED PLAT                                PROPOSED PLAT AMENDMENT

     Lot 24, as depicted on the approved                     Lot 24 and two adjacent rear parcels
   Amended Monte Verde Subdivision No. 1                     depicted as merged into one lot on the
                                                          proposed Amended Monte Verde Subdivision
      The 10’ right-of-way is highlighted.                                  No. 2.



Advisory Opinion – Clark / Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 8, 2024 Page 2 of 7
This issue initially came to light when the Property Owner received a stop work order from the
County for a fence they were constructing running the length of the disputed right-of-way. The
County has stated that “if the right-of-way is not sold to [Property Owner] and it is not vacated
and divided between the two property owners, the fence posts installed by [Property Owner] will
be required to be removed from the County right-of-way.” Submittal from County dated November
21, 2023.

The Property Owner maintains that the 10’ right-of-way is not County property; it is a private
access easement benefiting the rear parcel now under his ownership. The disputed area has
historically been gated off and landscaped. The Property Owner further maintains that the public
has no interest in the private right-of-way, and accordingly, the process to vacate a public road
does not apply. The Property Owner maintains that the Subdivision Plat notation merely locates
the previously floating private right-of-way created in 1964 to give the rear parcel access.

Additionally, as the Property Owner now owns Lot 24 and the rear parcel (the servient and
dominant estates), arguably, the servitude is extinguished under common ownership. Therefore,
the Property Owner maintains, the 10’ right-of-way does not need to be depicted on the proposed
plat amendment and the Property Owner may use that portion of his property without restraint of
even the private access easement.1

History:

     •     1964 – “Floating” right-of-way granted. In August of 1964, one of the rear lots was
           conveyed by Warranty Deed “together with right-of-way leading to said premises from
           Public Road” in Book 5 Page 304, No. 33053 of Morgan County Records. This created a
           private “floating” or “roving” access easement benefiting the one rear lot across what is
           now known as Lot 24.

     •     1969 – land subdivided; right-of-way depicted. The Monte Verde Subdivision No. 1, was
           recorded as entry number 63655, and designates the disputed property as a “10’ R.O.W.”2
           The dedicatory paragraph on that plat reads:

                       “The undersigned owners of the foregoing described tract of land do hereby set
                       apart and subdivide the same into lots and streets and utility easements as shown
                       on the above and foregoing plat thereof, and assign to the lands included in the plat
                       the name of Monte Verde Subdivision No. 1.

                       The undersigned owners further hereby dedicate, grant and convey to Morgan
                       County all those parts or portions of said tract of land designated on said plat as
                       streets, the same to be used as public thoroughfares forever and grant and dedicate
                       a perpetual right of easement over and under the land designated on the plat as


1
  For clarity, we note that there is also a public utility easement which runs through a portion of the disputed 10’ right-
of-way. This public utility easement apparently is not affected by the proposed amendment and remains.
2
  An amended plat was recorded on 11-25-73 as entry number 39482 which only affects Lots 1 – 4 (and not Lot 24 or
the right-of-way in question).


Advisory Opinion – Clark / Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 8, 2024 Page 3 of 7
                       public utility easements, the same to be used for the installations, maintenance and
                       operation of public utility service lines as may be authorized by Morgan County.”

     •     2018 – Property Owner acquires ownership of Lot 24 and the two additional parcels.
           Property Owner acquires Lot 24 as well as the two parcels to the rear, including the deeded
           right-of-way across Lot 24, by Warranty Deed on March 15, 2018. Recorded on March 19,
           2018 as E 144276 B 342 P 928.

The County argues that the Subdivision Plat conveys ownership of the 10’ right-of-way to the
County. They state that “a right-of-way is a street, not an easement. The right-of-way was conveyed
to Morgan County ‘to be used as [a] public thoroughfare forever.’” Submittal from County dated
November 21, 2023. Accordingly, the County is requiring the Property Owner to go through a
formal, public procedure mandated in state code to vacate the right-of-way. The record is not
entirely clear, but apparently, once vacated, the County may ask the Property Owner to buy the
disputed land, or, it may be divided along the centerline between the Property Owner and the other
adjacent lot owner.

The Property Owner disputes this interpretation. The Property Owner maintains that the
Subdivision Plat depicts and locates the private access easement created five years before the
Subdivision Plat was recorded. Alternatively, the 10’ right-of-way label creates a new private right
of access to the rear lots. Regardless, because the Property Owner now owns both the dominant
and servient estates for this private easement, the interests merge and the right-of-way is
extinguished. Therefore, the 10’ right-of-way does not need to be vacated or depicted on the
proposed amended plat.

The Property Owner has requested this Advisory Opinion to answer whether the County may
require the Property Owner to go through the process to vacate a public street, where he
understands the property to be an extinguished private easement, as a condition of approval of an
amended subdivision plat.

                                                    Analysis

The heart of this dispute is the nature of the 10’ right-of-way. If it is County-owned, it will either
need to be depicted on the proposed amended plat and left unoccupied (including removal of the
recently installed fence posts), or, formally vacated in accordance with the process outlined in Utah
Code Section 17-27a-609.5. The County asserts that if it is vacated, that the Property Owner would
need to purchase the property and/or it may be split equally between the Property Owner and the
adjacent property.

On the other hand, if the 10’ right-of-way is a private easement serving the rear lot, the Owner now
owns both the dominant and servient estates, the interests have merged, the right-of-way has been
extinguished, no longer exists, and may be left off the proposed amended plat and freely used by
the Property Owner. See Skypark Airport Ass'n, LLC v. Jensen, 2013 UT App 229, ¶ 15, 311 P.3d
575, 579 (citing Restatement (Third) of Prop.: Servitudes § 7.5 (2000)) (“A servitude is terminated
when all the benefits and burdens come into a single ownership.”)



Advisory Opinion – Clark / Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 8, 2024 Page 4 of 7
The County has interpreted the language on the plat as dedicating the right-of-way to the public.
However, Utah courts have long held that the “vital principle of dedication is the intention to
dedicate.” Schettler v. Lynch, 23 Utah 305, 315, 64 P. 955, 956 (Sup.Ct. 1901); see also, 14 Powell
on Real Property § 84.01 (2024) (Dedication of land to public use “requires . . . a landowner’s
objectively manifested desire to devote property for such use”). Furthermore, “the burden of the
servitude must be communicated to the owner of the servient estate with sufficient clarity to
understand it. The principle is an application to easements of the basic concepts of the law of
contracts that the duties of a party to a contract must be described in detail sufficient to make it
possible to ascertain whether the agreement has been kept or broken.” Evans v. Bd. of Cty.
Comm’rs, 2005 UT 74, 123 P.3d 432 (Sup.Ct.).

The County maintains that the disputed 10’ right-of-way was dedicated to the public via the
Subdivision Plat. The County points out that the 10’ right-of-way is clearly labeled on the edge of
Lot 24. Furthermore, the County claims that the dedication language includes the right-of-way.
The dedicatory language reads as follows:

                 “The undersigned owners of the foregoing described tract of land do hereby
                 set apart and subdivide the same into lots and streets and utility easements
                 as shown on the above and foregoing plat thereof, and assign to the lands
                 included in the plat the name of Monte Verde Subdivision No. 1”

                 The undersigned owners further hereby dedicate, grant and convey to
                 Morgan County all those parts or portions of said tract of land designated
                 on said plat as streets, the same to be used as public thoroughfares forever
                 and grant and dedicate a perpetual right of easement over and under the land
                 designated on the plat as public utility easements, the same to be used for
                 the installations, maintenance and operation of public utility service lines as
                 may be authorized by Morgan County.”

(emphasis added). We note, however, that the subdivision purports to “set apart and subdivide the
same into lots and streets and utility easements” and only streets and public utility easements are
dedicated to the public. The dedication does not mention the creation or dedication of rights-of-
way, generally.

The County concludes that because “a right-of-way is a street, not an easement,” the right-of-way
is conveyed within the language dedicating streets to the County. Submittal from County dated
November 21, 2023. However, just because something is not one thing (a utility easement), does
not necessarily make it another (a public street). There is nothing in the dedicatory language to
suggest that the 10’ right-of-way is synonymous with street. The areas reserved for public streets
are clearly depicted. The streets are clearly labeled (Valley View Drive and Monte Verde Drive),
meet common engineering standards for local streets (60’ wide), and plainly give all the lots
created by the Plat access. The right-of-way, on the other hand, is much narrower than the streets
(10’ wide), not given a street name, and only serves the rear lot.

The mere labeling of an area 10’ right-of-way does not plainly convey interest in the right-of-way
to the County. See, View Condo. Owners Ass’n v. MSICO, L.L.C., 90 P.3d 1042, 1047 (Utah Ct.
App. 2004) (Recording a declaration or plat setting out servitudes does not, by itself, create

Advisory Opinion – Clark / Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 8, 2024 Page 5 of 7
servitudes). While no “particular words are necessary for the grant of an easement . . . the
instrument must identify with reasonable certainty the easement created and the dominant and
servient tenements.” Cape Homeowners Ass’n v. S. Destiny, Ltd. Liab. Co., 284 N.C. App. 237,
876 S.E.2d 568 (2022) quoting Oliver v. Ernul, 277 N.C. 591, 597, 178 S.E.2d 393, 396 (1971).

“An easement may be created by express words of either a formal grant or a reservation or
exception in a conveyance of land. . . The same formalities apply to creation of easements as in
any other conveyance. As an easement is a property interest, the creating instrument must satisfy
the statute of frauds.” Utah Real Property Law § 12.02. Furthermore, language conveying property
interests may not be vague, inconsistent, ambiguous, or incomplete. See South Corp. v. Potter, 760
P.2d at 322 (Utah Ct. App. 1988) (concluding a written agreement did not amount to express
easement where its language was “vague, inconsistent, ambiguous, and incomplete.”)

One of the factors to consider in ascertaining the intent of the parties to an agreement purportedly
transferring real property is whether the document sufficiently describes the interest granted “in a
manner sufficient to construe the instruments as a conveyance of an interest in land.” Wasatch
Mines Co. v. Hopkinson, 24 Utah 2d 70, 465 P.2d 1007, 1010 (1970). Words that “clearly show
intention to grant an easement are sufficient, provided the language is certain and definite in its
term.” Warburton v. Va. Beach Fed. Sav. & Loan Ass’n, 899 P.2d 779 (Utah Ct. App. 1995) quoting
Martinez v. Martinez, 93 N.M. 673, 604 P.2d 366, 368 (N.M. 1979).

Utah courts would look to the plain definition for right-of-way to determine if a public right is
inherently implied. Black’s Law Dictionary defines right-of-way as “The right to pass through
property owned by another” with further differentiation between a “private right-of-way. See
EASEMENT” and “public right-of-way. The right of passage held by the public in general to travel
on roads, freeways, and other thoroughfares.” Blacks Law Dictionary, 10th Edition (2015).

Note that the legal definition does not imply a public right of passage. This continues to common-
usage dictionaries as well. For instance, according to Merriam-Webster, the term right-of-way
means “a legal right of passage over another person’s ground.” Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary,
https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/right-of-way. Accessed 13 Feb. 2024. We conclude
that usage of the term right-of-way does not inherently imply public rights.

Utah Code Section 17-27a-607 governs the dedication by plat of public streets and other public
places. Section 17-27-a-607(1) reads “A plat that is signed, dedicated, and acknowledged by each
owner of record, and approved according to the procedures specified in this part, operates, when
recorded, as a dedication of all public streets and other public places, and vests the fee of those
parcels of land in the county for the public for the uses named or intended in the plat.” (emphasis
added). In this case, there is no public use named or even implied for the 10’ right-of-way within
the face of the Plat. The Subdivision Plat does not include any language indicating any public use
of the right-of-way. The location (only serving the rear lot) and limited width (10’ wide) also
suggest it is suitable only as a private driveway for the rear lot.

In this case, the Subdivision Plat does not include sufficient detail to conclude labeling an area 10’
right-of-way conveys ownership of the area to the County. Because the Subdivision Plat is
unambiguous, looking at the extrinsic evidence is not necessary. However, the history of a deeded
private access right-of-way serving the rear lot being depicted and the location determined on the

Advisory Opinion – Clark / Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 8, 2024 Page 6 of 7
Plat fits squarely with this result. Furthermore, the County has not put forth any public purpose the
right-of-way may serve, or why it would have been required when the Plat was adopted.

In conclusion, the 10’ right-of-way labeled on the Subdivision Plat has not been clearly dedicated
to the County. Therefore, the disputed area is a private easement serving the rear lot. Because the
Property Owner now owns both Lot 24 (the dominant estate) and the rear lot (the servient estate),
the interests have merged, the right-of-way has been extinguished, no longer exists, and may be
left off the proposed amended plat without need of going through any formal vacation procedure.

                                            Conclusion

The label 10’ right-of-way on a recorded subdivision plat does not convey ownership of the area
to the public. Dedication of land to public use requires a landowner’s objectively manifested desire
to devote property to public use. The subdivision plat lacks any indication that the 10’ right-of-
way is surrendered to public ownership. The dedicatory language on the plat mentions only the
dedication of streets and public utility easements. Because the County does not have rights to the
10’ right-of-way, there are no rights to vacate.

Furthermore, the 10’ right-of-way depicts the location of a private right-of-way deeded several
years before the plat was recorded. Because the same party now owns the servient and dominant
estates for this private right-of-way, the interests automatically merge and the right-of-way is
extinguished under common ownership.

Therefore, the county may not lawfully require the vacation of an extinguished, private right-of-
way as a condition of approval of an amended subdivision plat.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Clark / Morgan County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 8, 2024 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:
This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not constitute
legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of
Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may not
reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.
While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.
An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.
Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in § 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are also
designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
