                     Advisory Opinion #250
                                  Parties: Scott Bracken, Weber County
                                        Issued: January 20, 2022

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                               Compliance with Land Use Ordinances
                        Entitlement to Application Approval (Vested Rights)
                                    Interpretation of Ordinances
                              Requirements Imposed on Development

The 75-foot building setback required by the Weber County stream corridor ordinance applies to naturally
occurring, year-round streams. The watercourse running along the rear property line of the subject
property is manmade and conveys water only a few months of the year. Furthermore, while the Stream
Map does offer a conflicting depiction of “stream,” such ambiguity is interpreted in favor of the property
owner. Therefore, according to the plain language of the county ordinance defining a “stream”, the 75-
foot building setback does not apply to the watercourse in this case.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                              State of Utah
                              Department of Commerce
   SPENCER J. COX             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
      Governor
                              MARGARET W. BUSSE       JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON           Executive Director      Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
   Lieutenant Governor




                                                   ADVISORY OPINION

          Advisory Opinion Requested By:                 Scott Bracken

          Local Government Entity:                       Weber County

          Applicant for Land Use Approval:               Scott Bracken

          Type of Property:                              Residential

          Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 January 20, 2022

          Opinion Authored By:                           Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                         Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                          ISSUE

          Did Weber County correctly interpret applicable county code provisions when it imposed a 75-
          foot stream setback from a manmade irrigation channel which is dry several months of each year?

                                           SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

          The 75-foot building setback required by the Weber County stream corridor ordinance applies to
          naturally occurring, year-round streams. The watercourse running along the rear property line of
          the subject property is manmade and conveys water only a few months of the year. Furthermore,
          while the Stream Map does offer a conflicting depiction of “stream,” such ambiguity is interpreted
          in favor of the property owner. Therefore, according to the plain language of the county ordinance
          defining a “stream”, the 75-foot building setback does not apply to the watercourse in this case.

                                                         REVIEW

          A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
          decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205. An
          advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust administrative
          remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use application or other
          specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is hoped that such a review
          can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum, and understand
          the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this opinion, may have
          some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.
A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Scott Bracken on September 27, 2021. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Ricky D. Hatch, CPA, Counter Clerk / Auditor
Weber County, 2380 Washington Boulevard, Suite 320, Ogden, Utah 84401 on September 28,
2021.

                                                     EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:
   1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Scott Bracken on September 27, 2021.
   2. Response letter submitted by Steve Burton, Principal Planner, Weber County Planning
      Division on November 2, 2021.
   3. Documents submitted by Scott Bracken on November 10, 2021.

                                                   BACKGROUND

Scott Bracken (“Bracken”) purchased a parcel of land in Eden, Utah on which he plans to build a
residence. The lot is bordered by a watercourse that runs along the rear boundary line. Bracken
designed home building plans using a 50’ building setback from this rear property line as required
on the recorded subdivision plat and in the relevant zoning ordinances. Bracken submitted a
building permit request to Weber County Planning Division (“County”) depicting the same.1

The County reviewed and denied the building permit application asserting the plans did not
properly depict a 75-foot stream corridor building setback from the adjacent watercourse as
required by the County’s Stream Corridor Ordinance2 (the “Stream Corridor Ordinance”).

Bracken maintains that the stream corridor ordinance does not apply to that particular watercourse
because it is a manmade irrigation channel and does not meet the definition of “stream” provided
in the Weber County Land Use Code.

In a letter provided by Bracken, the Wolf Creek Irrigation Company (“Irrigation Company”) states
that the channel was dug as a way to carry water from the diversion of Wolf Creek stream to the
Wolf Creek collection water. It is based upon a diversion of water from a stream, but is not itself a
natural watercourse. Further, the Irrigation Company is allowed to take water from the actual
stream for only part of each year – from March 1 until October 31. Thus, Bracken and the Irrigation
Company maintain that the channel is a manmade collection reservoir used for irrigation purposes,
which does not meet the County’s definition of “stream.” Additionally, according to the Irrigation
Company, the channel does not convey water “year-round” as required by the Stream Corridor
Ordinance. According to the Stream Corridor Ordinance, naturally occurring ephemeral streams
which do not run year-round require only a 50’ setback. Bracken has provided photos of the
channel in a dry state to show that water is not present year-round.


1
  Bracken has submitted several iterations of building permit applications and variance requests in an attempt to receive
approval. It is not necessary or helpful to the analysis to go through details of the various applications.
2
  Weber County Code § 104-28-2(b)(1).
Advisory Opinion – Bracken / Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 20, 2022 Page 2 of 7
In opposition, the County maintains that the watercourse is depicted as a stream on the map which
accompanies the Stream Corridor Ordinance and therefore, the 75-foot stream setback has been
properly applied.

Bracken has requested this Advisory Opinion to determine if Weber County is correctly
interpreting county ordinances to designate the channel in question as a stream, and whether it may
therefore impose the 75-foot building setback required by the Stream Corridor Ordinance on his
development application.

                                                  ANALYSIS

Ordinance interpretation requires application of the canons of statutory construction.3 An analysis
of the plain language of the ordinance always comes first,4 with the primary goal “to give effect to
the legislative intent, as evidenced by the plain language, in light of the purpose the statute was
meant to achieve.”5 If the plain language of an ordinance is sufficiently clear, the analysis ends
there.6

Note that where a reasonably well-informed person could understand a land use ordinance to have
more than one meaning, the ordinance should be strictly construed in favor of the property owner,
since such ordinances are in derogation of an owner’s common-law right to unrestricted use of
their land. 7

It is also important to recognize that meaning must be given to words which are missing as well
as those included. It must be presumed “that each term included in the ordinance was used
advisedly”8 and “[o]missions in statutory language should be taken note of and given effect.”9

To summarize, we will review the plain language of the ordinance, reading any ambiguity in favor
of the property owner and giving meaning to each term to determine whether the watercourse
running at the rear boundary of Bracken’s property is in fact a stream to which the 75-foot building
setback required by the Stream Corridor Ordinance applies.

     I.          By the plain language of the ordinance, and in consideration of the evidence
                 presented, the identified channel is not a stream

The Stream Corridor Ordinance is within Part II Land Use of the Weber County Code (the “County
Code”, or, simply “Code”). That section begins with “General Provisions” which provides
guidance for how to use and apply the Code and also includes a section labeled “Definitions” (the
“Definitions”). If there is any question as to how the Definitions should be used, the section labeled



3
  Foutz v. City of South Jordan, 2004 UT 75, ¶8.
4
  Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98 ¶30.
5
  Foutz, 2004 UT 75, ¶11.
6
  General Construction & Development, Inc. v. Peterson Plumbing Supply, 2011 UT 1, ¶ 8.
7
  Patterson v. Utah County Bd. Of Adjustment., 893 P.2d 602 (Utah Ct. of App. 1995).
8
  Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98, ¶ 30, 104 P.3d 602, 606 (Utah Ct. App. 1995).
9
  Biddle v. Washington Terrace, 1999 UT 110, ¶ 14.
Advisory Opinion – Bracken / Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 20, 2022 Page 3 of 7
“Applicability” states “When used in this Code, the following words and phrases have the meaning
ascribed to them in this section, unless the context indicates a different meaning.”10

Furthermore, the General Provisions also give guidance on the “Rules of Construction.” It states
“[t]he words used in this Code shall be construed to effect the intended purposes. Definitions of
various words and phrases used throughout the Code are provided in this title. . ..” (emphasis
added).11 It goes on to say that “Other definitions may be found in specific sections of the Code
and apply only to that section or portion of the Code. . .”12 and later “[s]ome sections of this Code
contain separate definitions sections intended primarily for use in connection with the relevant
section or portion of the Code.”13

Therefore, by the plain language of the Code, the Definitions section provides the applicable
definitions of words used in the Code. If an alternate definition is required for a particular section
or subsection of Code, it will be defined separately there.

With that guidance, we next look to see whether, and how, “stream” is defined. The definition for
“stream” occurs only once in the Code.14 According to the Definition provided:

          The term "stream" means those areas where surface waters flow sufficiently to
          produce a defined channel or bed. A defined channel or bed is indicated by
          hydraulically sorted sediments or the removal of vegetation litter or loosely rooted
          vegetation by action of moving water. The channel or bed need not contain water
          year-round. This definition is not meant to include stormwater runoff devices or
          entirely artificial watercourse unless they are used to store or convey pass through
          stream flows naturally occurring prior to construction of such devices. Stream
          watercourses where the definition may apply are those that appear on the U.S.
          Geological Survey Quad maps excluding irrigation canals and ditches. For
          instance, an irrigation canal following a natural or jurisdictional watercourse would
          not be exempt, but others would be exempt.15 (emphasis added).

According to the Code, entirely artificial watercourses are not considered “streams.” The Irrigation
Company has stated that the disputed watercourse was manmade and created to convey irrigation
water. Based on that portion of the definition, and the presented evidence, the disputed channel is
not considered a stream, and the Stream Corridor Ordinance would not apply.

Note further that while the definition of “stream” does not require water be present year-round, the
Stream Corridor Ordinance does. According to the Irrigation Company, irrigation water flows
through the channel for only seven months of the year. Likewise, Bracken has provided photos of
the channel where it is completely dry, indicating this is not a year-round watercourse. Therefore,


10
   Weber County Code § 101-2-1.
11
   Weber County Code § 101-1-6(a).
12
   Weber County Code § 101-1-6(a).
13
   Weber County Code § 101-1-6(b)(9).
14
   The Stream Corridor Ordinance is detailed in Chapter 104 – Ogden Valley Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone, which
does not include any definitions pertinent only to that Section. (Weber County Code § 104-28).
15
   Weber County Code § 101-2-20.
Advisory Opinion – Bracken / Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 20, 2022 Page 4 of 7
the 75’ building setback required for year-round streams would not apply to the subject
watercourse based on this requirement as well.

Because the Code states that the meaning of those words provided in the Definitions section applies
unless an alternate meaning is provided in a particular subsection, and because “stream” is not
otherwise defined in the Code, the conclusion that the identified canal is manmade and therefore
not a “stream” according to the Definition, appears definitive. However, before ending our
analysis, we must nonetheless determine whether “the context indicates a different meaning” as
provided by the Applicability section of the Code.16

     II.         By the overall context of the ordinance, the identified channel is not a stream

The Stream Corridor Ordinance is a subsection of the Code. This subsection does not provide its
own definitions; therefore, it relies on the Definitions provided earlier in that overall section of the
code. There is, nonetheless, context which might indicate a separate definition of “stream” could
apply to the Stream Corridor Ordinance.

The text of the Stream Corridor Ordinance clearly requires that “Structures, roads, or parking areas
shall not be developed or located with 75-feet on both sides of a year-round stream, as determined
from the high-water mark of the stream.”17 That much seems clear. The Stream Corridor Ordinance
is prefaced by a Purpose and Intent subsection which includes a thumbnail roughly 4 inches by 5
inches of Ogden Valley Sensitive Lands Stream Corridors map (the “Stream Map”). The thumbnail
covers the entire county and is therefore unreadable, but the ordinance does include text which
reads “the Ogden Valley Sensitive Lands Maps [including the Stream Map] are available from
Weber County.”18.

Once obtained from Weber County, one can “zoom in” on the Stream Map and see that the disputed
watercousre is clearly highlighted in blue, and then locate the legend which clearly states that the
blue highlighting identifies areas as a “stream or braided stream”. It is from this context that the
County has determined the watercourse in question is a “stream.” Because the channel is labeled
as a “stream or braided stream,” on the Stream Map, the County argues, the 75-foot building
setback applies.

Bracken argues, and the County has not protested, that the highlighting on the Stream Map is not
accurate. Moreover, it appears that the Stream Map is not intended to be dispositive. The Stream
Map includes the following disclaimers on the legend:

           “This is not an official map, but for reference use only. The data was compiled from
           the best sources available, so various errors from the sources may be inherent on
           the map. All boundaries and features therein should be treated as such. For official
           boundary information, the pertinent County department or Municipality should be

16
   See Weber County Code § 101-2-1. Applicability which states “When used in this Code, the following words and
phrases have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, unless the context indicates a different meaning.” (emphasis
added).
17
   Weber County Code § 104-28-2(b)(1).
18
   Weber County Code § 104-28-1(c).
Advisory Opinion – Bracken / Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 20, 2022 Page 5 of 7
           contacted. This map is a representation of ground features and is not a legal
           document of their locations. The scale represented is approximate, nonexistent, or
           has been changed, so this is NOT a Survey or Engineering grade map and should
           by no means be used as such. This map is not intended for all uses. Weber County
           is not responsible or liable for any derivative or misuses of this map.” (emphasis
           added).

Further, the text of the Stream Corridor Ordinance itself does not even imply that the Stream Map
should be dispositive. The Stream Corridor Ordinance is silent on how it should be used. The
Stream Map is only mentioned in the prior “Purpose and Intent” subsection, and even then, only
to say “the Ogden Valley Sensitive Lands Maps [including the Stream Map] are available from
Weber County.”19

In contrast, in the immediately following section regulating important wildlife habitat areas
includes specific directions for how the corresponding map should be used. That sections states
both that “Limitations in areas of wildlife habitat as shown on the Ogden Valley Sensitive Lands
Wildlife Map”20 and also “when development occurs in mapped important areas, the state division
of wildlife resources (DWR) may provide written recommendations . . ..”21

Noting that “[o]missions in statutory language should be taken note of and given effect”22 the
Stream Corridor Ordinance failing to mention the map must be given meaning, particularly where
the immediately following subsection includes language making use of that corresponding map
obligatory. Therefore, based on the lack of language in the Stream Corridor Ordinance indicating
the Stream Map is dispositive, and the disclaimer language on the Stream Map itself, there is no
clear indication how the Stream Map should be applied.

The Utah courts have given us direction on how to interpret ordinances which include conflicting
or imprecise language—where any ambiguity remains, the ordinance should be read in favor of
the property owner. “A statute is ambiguous if it can be understood by reasonably well-informed
persons to have different meanings.”23 In this case, a reasonably well-informed person could read
the Definition of stream and determine the subject watercourse is not a stream because it is
intermittent and manmade, yet then look at the Stream Map and determine that it is a stream
because the legend indicates that it is. Therefore, the ordinance, when taken as a whole, includes
some ambiguity.

Utah case law stipulates that, regarding land use regulations, any ambiguity must be “liberally
construed in favor of the property owner” because “zoning ordinances are in derogation of a
property owner’s common-law right to unrestricted use of his or her provisions.”24 Further, zoning
“provisions therein restricting property uses should be strictly construed, and provisions permitting

19
   Weber County Code § 104-28-1(c).
20
   Weber County Code § 104-28-3(a)(1)(a).
21
   Weber County Code § 104-28-3(b).
22
   Biddle v. Washington Terrace, 1999 UT 110, ¶ 14.
23
   Miller Welding Supply, Inc. v. Utah State Tax Comm'n, 860 P.2d 361, 362 (Utah App. 1993) (quoting Sneddon v. Graham, 821
P.2d 1185, 1187 (Utah App. 1991)),
24
  Patterson v. Utah County Bd. Of Adjustment, 893 P.2d 602 quoting Sammons v. Village of Batavia, 53 Ohio App.
3d 87, 557 N.E.2d 1246, 1249 (Ohio App. 1988); see 83 Am. Jur. 2d Zoning & Planning § 977 (1992).
Advisory Opinion – Bracken / Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 20, 2022 Page 6 of 7
property uses should be liberally construed in favor of the property owner.”25 Therefore, where a
reasonably well-informed person could find two different building setbacks applying to the
watercourse in question – one that is 50’, as detailed on the plat and in the zoning code, and one
that is 75’ which is indicated on the Stream Map – the one which least restricts the property owner’s
use of the land must be used.

In conclusion, while there may be some remaining ambiguity where the Definition of “stream”
conflicts with the conclusion one gets from using the Stream Map, the overall context does not
clearly indicate that the Stream Map should override the definition of “stream” explicitly included
in Definitions. This decision is supported by the practice of construing any ambiguity in favor of
the property owner.

Accordingly, because the watercourse running along the rear of Bracken’s property is apparently
manmade, it does not meet the definition of “stream” in the Definitions section of the County
Code. Furthermore, while the Stream Map does provide an alternate interpretation, ambiguity is
interpreted in favor of the property owner. As such, by the plain language of the ordinances, and
in light of the evidence presented, the 75-foot building setback established in the Stream Corridor
Ordinance does not apply and the County may not lawfully apply it to this property when reviewing
a land use application.

                                            CONCLUSION

The 75-foot building setback required by the Weber County Stream Corridor Ordinance applies to
naturally occurring, year-round streams. As the watercourse running the along the rear property
line of the subject property is manmade and conveys water only a few months of the year, the 75-
foot building setback does not apply.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




25
     Id.
Advisory Opinion – Bracken / Weber County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 20, 2022 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the UTAH CODE. It does not constitute
legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of
Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may not
reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage dispute
resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if those
circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award them.
