                     Advisory Opinion #289
                                   Parties: Applegate LLC; Murray City
                                          Issued: July 23, 2024

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                    Interpretation of Ordinances
                              Requirements imposed upon development

State law restricts municipalities from imposing conditions of approval which are not authorized
by applicable law. Because the condition to require emergency-only access at the connection
point between Fuji Avenue and Spring Clover Drive is not supported by substantial evidence the
city may not lawfully impose such as a condition of approval of the subdivision plat amendment.
Additionally, state law allows only those conditions to be imposed on conditional use permits which
mitigate a reasonably anticipated detrimental effect. Because the traffic study indicated the
townhomes will not adversely impact traffic level of service in the area, there are no anticipated
detrimental effects, and a condition to mitigate the same is therefore unlawful.

As to the final issue, City Code requires that single-family lots must abut a public street. The lots
in this subdivision abut a private street, and therefore the multi-family townhome blocks may not
be further subdivided into single-family homes and sold individually.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor               MARGARET W. BUSSE          JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                             Executive Director          Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor



                                                  ADVISORY OPINION

         Advisory Opinion Requested by:                 Jake Christensen

         Local Government Entity:                       Murray City

         Property Owner:                                Applegate LLC

         Type of Property:                              Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 July 23, 2024

         Opinion Authored By:                           Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                        Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                         Issues

              1. May a city require the installation of an emergency-only access gate where a proposed 42-
                 townhome project connects with an existing street?

              2. May the developer further subdivide the proposed multi-family townhome blocks into
                 individually sold single-family homes? The townhomes abut a private street and city code
                 requires that single-family homes abut a public street.

                                           Summary of Advisory Opinion

         The property owner is proposing to develop a 42-unit townhome project. The townhomes are
         developed in blocks with multiple townhome units on each individual subdivision lot similar to
         typical apartment buildings.

         As required by city ordinance, the property owner submitted an amended subdivision plat
         application as well as a conditional use permit in connection with the project. As a condition of
         approval of both applications, the city is requiring an emergency-only access gate be installed
         across the roadway connection between the proposed project and an existing street to mitigate
         potential traffic impacts on an adjoining neighborhood. The condition to install the gate is not
         supported by substantial evidence nor intended to mitigate an established anticipated detrimental
         effect. Therefore, the city may not lawfully impose this as a condition of approval.

         The property owner next asks whether the developer may lawfully further subdivide the proposed
         multifamily townhome apartment blocks into individually sold single-family homes. The city code
         requires that single-family lots must abut a public street. The lots in this subdivision abut a private
street, and therefore the multi-family townhome blocks may not be further subdivided into single-
family homes and sold individually.

                                              Evidence

The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:
   1. Request for an Advisory Opinion submitted by Jake Christensen on behalf of Applegate
       LLC, received on August 18, 2023.
      2. Documents provided by email from City Attorney Mark Richardson, dated November 17,
         2023.
      3. Email response from attorney Ryan Wallace, on behalf of Applegate LLC, dated
         November 20, 2023.
      4. Additional question for advisory opinion and linked documents from Ryan Wallace,
         dated November 27, 2023.
      5. Murray City's memorandum response to additional issues, submitted by Mark
         Richardson, dated December 13, 2023.
      6. Email response from Ryan Wallace, dated December 20, 2023.
      7. Email reply from Mark S. Richardson, dated December 29, 2023.
      8. Email surresponse and attachments from Ryan Wallace, dated January 3, 2024.
      9. Email reply from Mark S. Richardson, dated January 16, 2024.
      10. Email from Ryan Wallace, dated January 18, 2024.

                                             Background
In connection with a proposed 42-unit townhouse project, the property owner (Property Owner)
applied for (1) preliminary and final subdivision plat approval to amend the existing Applegate
Condominiums subdivision, and (2) a conditional use permit to Murray City (City). The project is
infill development and adjacent to existing residential neighborhoods and the Applegate
Condominium project.

The Murray City Planning Commission approved the project subject to multiple conditions. The
Property Owner objected to several of the required conditions, however, through the appeal
process, all but one of the objected-to conditions were resolved.

The Property Owner asks whether the remaining objected-to condition may be imposed.
Specifically, the City is requiring that the new roadway connection between the proposed Fiji
Avenue and existing Spring Clover Drive be blocked by an emergency-only gate so that only fire
and emergency vehicles can use the access point. Neighbors have expressed concern over the
potential traffic impacts of the project.

The Traffic Impact Study prepared by the Property Owner’s engineer indicated that the proposed
development would have no significant impact on existing traffic. Furthermore, there are no City

Advisory Opinion – Appelgate / Murray City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 23, 2024, Page 2 of 9
ordinances requiring that an emergency only access gate be installed under the proposed
conditions. The Property Owner therefore asks whether this condition is arbitrary and capricious
because it is not supported by substantial evidence or otherwise illegal because the requirement is
not included in city ordinances.

Additionally, the Property Owner questions the City’s interpretation of City Code restricting the
apartment townhome blocks from being further subdivided and sold as individual single-family
homes. As currently proposed, multiple townhomes sit on each lot and will have a common owner
and be rented individually.

City code requires that all lots serving single-family homes or duplexes abut a public street. Each
lot in the proposed subdivision is directly served by a private street. The Property Owner maintains
that the lots may be sold individually because common area (the private street) abuts the public
street, arguably meeting the requirements of the Code. The City maintains that this does not meet
the definition of “abut” and therefore the blocks of townhomes may not be further subdivided into
single-family homes and individually sold.

The Property Owner has requested this Advisory Opinion to answer whether the City (1) may
lawfully require installation of an emergency-only access gate as a condition of approval for the
amended subdivision plat and conditional use permit and whether (2) the blocks of townhomes
may be further subdivided into single-family homes and individually sold.
                                                       Analysis

      I.          The City may not require that an emergency access gate be installed as a condition
                  of approval for the amended subdivision plat because the Code does not expressly
                  require the gate and the condition is not supported by substantial evidence in the
                  record.

We first acknowledge that in contrast to other administrative decisions, the land use authority
possesses an added level of discretion on whether to approve an amended subdivision plat
application. Utah Code Section 10-9a-609(1) reads “the land use authority may approve the
vacation or amendment of a plat . . . if the land use authority finds that: . . . there is good cause for
the vacation or amendment.”1 In this case, the City may deny the plat outright if it finds there was
not “good cause” for approving the amendment. See, e.g., Six Blue Bison LLC v. Alpine City, 2023
UT App 89, 536 P.3d 77 (supporting the city council’s decision in not finding “good cause” for
approval of a plat amendment because the proposed project road was not explicitly included in the
general plan). Regardless, and as will be explained below, the City’s authority to outright deny for
lack of “good cause” does not include discretion to approve the proposal with unlawful conditions.

Initially, we analyze whether the City may lawfully require that an emergency access gate be
installed as a condition of approval of the amended subdivision plat.


1
  Of note, it appears the Planning Commission already found good cause to approve the subdivision it its July 20, 2023
Findings of Fact, which states that “[t]he proposed subdivision creates an opportunity for further residential
development which is encouraged and supported by the 2017 Murray City General Plan in this area.” Therefore, the
inquiry here focuses on whether the City has otherwise lawfully approved the subdivision with conditions.

Advisory Opinion – Appelgate / Murray City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 23, 2024, Page 3 of 9
When reviewing the City’s decision to attach conditions to a development approval, the first step
is to determine whether applicable law authorizes the City to impose conditions on the approval,
and under what circumstances. If applicable law permits the City to impose conditions, we then
determine if the City supported its decision to impose the condition with substantial evidence in
the record. If a land use authority exercises discretion to impose a condition in a manner that is
unsupported by substantial evidence, then the decision is arbitrary and capricious and therefore
unlawful. See Utah Code UTAH CODE § 10-9a-801(3)(b).

Utah state statute mandates that a municipality may only impose conditions of approval when state
law, the municipal code, or municipal standards authorize it to do so. Utah Code Section 10-9a-
509(f) states that “a municipality may not impose on an applicant who has submitted a complete
application a requirement that is not expressed in: (i) this chapter; (ii) a municipal ordinance in
effect on the date that the applicant submits a complete application . . .; or (iii) a municipal
specification for public improvements applicable to a subdivision or development . . .”

Furthermore, land use applications are “entitled to approval if the application conforms to the
requirements of the applicable land use regulations, land use decisions, and development standards
in effect when the applicant submits a complete application and pays the application fees.” UTAH
CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(ii). In plain English, if the subdivision plat meets the rules and standards2
outlined in the state law, the municipal code and adopted municipal standards for public
improvements, it must be approved.

In this case, for the city to lawfully impose the condition that an emergency-only access gate be
installed as a condition of approval, applicable law must clearly authorize the municipality to
impose the condition, otherwise, the condition conflicts with state law.

According to the information the parties have submitted, and upon review of the Murray City
Code, the following applies:

            B. This title is designed to inform the subdivision developer and the public of the
            requirements for obtaining subdivision plat approval. Because each parcel of real
            property has unique site/situation characteristics, there may be some aspects of
            subdivision development that cannot easily be articulated. For this reason, it is not
            possible to cover every possible contingency. Therefore, the City Engineer,
            Planning Commission, and Community and Economic Development Director have
            the authority to impose reasonable conditions upon a subdivider in addition to those
            expressly required, provided that:

            1. The conditions are not arbitrary or capricious;

            2. The conditions do not conflict with any applicable law.


2
  For a detailed explanation regarding the legal distinction between a rule and a standard, see Chapter 17. Rules and
Standards, in The Legal Analyst: A Tool Kit for Thinking about the Law. In short, “[t]he general difference between a
rule and a standard [is]: the consequences of a rule are triggered once we settle the facts; a standard requires a judgment
about the facts before it kicks in.” Ward Farnsworth, The Legal Analyst: A Tool Kit for Thinking about the Law, at 164
(2007).

Advisory Opinion – Appelgate / Murray City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 23, 2024, Page 4 of 9
Murray City Code § 16.04.010.

This provision generally authorizes the City to impose reasonable conditions on a
subdivision approval to the extent that the condition does not conflict with some other
applicable law and to the extent the condition is not arbitrary and capricious because it is
supported by substantial evidence in the record. See Utah Code UTAH CODE § 10-9a-
801(3)(b).

But there must be more than just a general grant of discretion to impose conditions not
expressly articulated in the Code. Where discretion is given to impose conditions, the
discretion must be guided by some “intelligible principle” or standard of decision making.
See J. W. Hampton, Jr. & Co. v. United States, 276 U.S. 394 (1928) (standing for the
proposition that a legislative grant of discretion must include some "intelligible principle”
to which the person or body authorized to act is directed to conform), see also State Tax
Comm'n v. Katsis, 90 Utah 406 (Utah 1936) (“Where judgment and discretion are required
of municipal officers they cannot be delegated without express legislative authority.”), and
Bradley v. Payson City Corp., 2003 UT 16 n.2 (noting that administrative decisions are
governed by city ordinances that “expressly limit[] the city’s discretion over [the
approval]”).

Broad discretion to impose any condition, without articulated criteria for the decisionmaker
to follow, will be considered an unlawful delegation of legislative authority, which is
illegal. See State Tax Comm'n v. Katsis, 90 Utah 406 (Utah 1936) (“[w]here judgment and
discretion are required of municipal officers they cannot be delegated without express
legislative authority.") The City Code must provide guidelines or decision-making criteria
for the land use authority to look to and follow when imposing a condition.

Here, the express rule governing access to the development is found in Murray City Code
§ 16.16.170. The section is titled “Relation of New Streets to Adjoining Street System;
Access Streets.” Subsection (B)(2) states the following:

            Multiple-Family Dwellings: Any residential subdivision development of
            more than one hundred (100) multiple-family dwellings shall have access
            to and from at least two (2) existing or proposed streets.

This section requires access to and from at least two existing or proposed streets where the
development will contain more than one hundred multi-family dwellings, as is the case
here since the road will serve the existing condos and the newly proposed townhomes. The
applicant proposes to meet the requirement by completing the Fuji Avenue connection to
Spring Clover Drive.

For the land use authority to have authority to impose an additional condition on the
applicant’s proposed connection, such as the installation of a crash gate to limit access, it
must identify a provision in the Code that would authorize it to impose the condition. The
only language we can find to guide the city’s decision making in limiting access via a gate
is in Murray City Code § 16.16.170(C) (emphasis added):


Advisory Opinion – Appelgate / Murray City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 23, 2024, Page 5 of 9
            Design Standards: Every development proposal shall demonstrate to the
            satisfaction of the city engineer, city fire marshal and planning commission
            that the overall street system design and subdivision layout incorporates
            design features conducive to efficient travel, public safety, and the
            protection of property and the community residents therein. The basis for
            the required improvements shall be in accordance with the street design and
            fire suppression standards adopted by the city. Required improvements shall
            bear a proportionate, rational nexus to the impact of the proposed
            development on the local roadway system.

By including the Fuji to Spring Clover drive connection in accordance with the requirement
for two access points, the applicant has met its burden for approval. For the City’s condition
that the connection include a crash gate to be lawful, it must support its requirement with
substantial evidence that the “required improvement” bears a proportionate, rational nexus
to the impact of the proposed development on the local roadway system. We conclude that
the City, in this case, has failed to meet this burden because no evidence has been presented
that the crash gate is necessary to address the impact of the proposed development.

The only traffic study submitted for our review provides the following conclusion
(emphasis added):

            The addition of an unrestricted connection between Applegate Drive and
            Spring Clover Drive could result in a potential extra 60-121 daily, 4-7 AM
            peak hour, and 6-11 PM peak hour trips dispersed throughout the
            neighborhood to the west of Applegate. Fehr & Peers was not able to find
            publicly available data on current traffic volumes and operations of the
            neighborhood streets such as Halcyon Drive and Clover Meadow Drive, but
            this number of additional trips is not expected to cause significant traffic
            issues to these neighborhood streets unless they are already operating at or
            near capacity. The neighborhood roadways are not likely near capacity
            given the number of homes in the neighborhood and the lack of connectivity
            to other areas that would increase traffic. Furthermore, the additional
            connection could provide traffic benefits to the wider Murray area by
            providing redundant routes and access and potentially dispersing traffic in
            case where nearby intersections are impacted by incidents.

Fehr & Peers Traffic Study Memorandum dated June 14, 2023.

This conclusion is the only substantial evidence that has been presented upon which a
decision could be made. Other opinions provided for our review do not appear to be
supported by evidence or data, but consist of mere speculation and conjecture, which are
inappropriate bases for imposing a condition. Accordingly, we conclude that the City, in
exercising its discretion to impose a condition to address the impact of the proposed
development has failed to support its decision with substantial evidence in the record, and
that the condition is therefore unlawful.



Advisory Opinion – Appelgate / Murray City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 23, 2024, Page 6 of 9
We next analyze whether the City may lawfully require that an emergency access gate be
installed as a condition of approval of the conditional use permit.

      II.         The City may not require that an emergency access gate be installed as a condition
                  of approval of the conditional use permit because there are no reasonably
                  anticipated negative traffic effects to mitigate.

In reviewing the City’s decision to conditionally approve the conditional use permit we “shall
presume that a final land use decision of a land use authority or an appeal authority is valid unless
the land use decision is . . . (1) arbitrary and capricious; or . . . (2) illegal.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-
801(3)(b) (emphasis added).

We again first analyze whether imposing the condition on the conditional use permit was legal.
Illegality refers to a determination that the decision violates a statute, ordinance, or existing law.
UTAH CODE §10-9a-801(3)(c)(ii).

According to state law, “A municipality may not impose a requirement or standard on a conditional
use that conflicts with a provision of this chapter or other state or federal law.” UTAH CODE § 10-
9a-507(1)(b). Furthermore, “A land use authority shall approve a conditional use if reasonable
conditions are proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
effects of the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-
507(2)(a)(i).

In plain English, the City may impose conditions to mitigate the reasonably anticipated
detrimental effects of the townhome project. The City may require the installation of the
emergency-only access gate if it mitigates anticipated detrimental traffic effects.

In the case at hand, the Property Owner maintains that the City Engineer failed to identify any
detrimental impacts that the minimal traffic generated by the new development via the Spring
Clover Drive access. The traffic impact study prepared by engineering consultants for the Property
Owner indicates that the traffic generated by the proposed project will not adversely impact access,
level of service, nor the surrounding neighborhood roads. Traffic Study, Fehr Peers, May 29, 2019,
and supplemented on June 20, 2022, December 28, 2022, and June 14, 2023.

The City Engineer recommends an emergency-only access while acknowledging that based on the
accepted Traffic Study the traffic impacts generated by the proposed project will not detrimentally
impact the level of service on neighboring roads. While the Code contemplates mitigating
detrimental traffic impacts,3 the City cannot lawfully impose a condition to mitigate traffic impacts
which the Traffic Impact Study indicates will not exist.

As indicated above, the applicant has provided the Fehr & Peers Traffic Study. This study
concluded that the proposed access point would not create any reasonably anticipated detrimental




3
 Murray City Code § 17.56.060(C) provides that “[t]he applicant may be required to provide…reports and studies
which will provide information relating to…traffic impacts….”

Advisory Opinion – Appelgate / Murray City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 23, 2024, Page 7 of 9
impacts, therefore, it would be unlawful for the city to impose a condition to install a crash gate,
where detrimental impacts for the gate to mitigate there are not anticipated.

In summary, requiring that an emergency-only access gate be installed as a condition of approval
of the conditional use permit is unlawful because there are no reasonably anticipated detrimental
traffic effects to mitigate.

      III.        The townhome lots do not directly abut a public street as required by City Code
                  to be sold as single-family homes on individual lots.

We next address whether the plain language of the City Code prevents the apartment-style
townhome blocks from being further subdivided and sold as single-family homes. As currently
proposed, the project will have multiple townhomes on each subdivided lot. Each block of
townhomes therefore will be under common ownership and be rented rather than owner-occupied.
The project has been planned with all 42 townhomes being accessed via a private street.

The Property Owner designed the project with private streets which do not meet the more rigorous
improvement standards of public streets. By designating the roadways as private the Property
Owner eliminates the option to further subdivide each townhome into an individual lot to be sold
as a single-family home. This is according to the requirements of City Code 16.16.090: entitled
“Access to Public Streets” which reads “(A) All lots or parcels created by the subdivision of land,
for single-family or two-family dwellings, . . . shall abut a public street which is improved to
standards established according to this chapter.”

The term abut is not defined in City Code or Utah Code. Merriam Webster defines abut as “to
border on: to touch along an edge” and “to cause to touch or lean for support.” Merriam Webster
Dictionary, online edition, accessed May 23, 2024.

The Property Owner argues that the private street is common area and therefore part of the
development, and as the development abuts the public roadway, the overall project meets the
criteria and further subdividing should be allowed. However, the City Code language does not
support this interpretation.

In interpreting city code, we must “apply the plain language of land use regulations.” Utah Code
§ 10-9a-306(1). In this case, the City Code is clear. “All lots or parcels created by the subdivision
of land, for single-family or two-family dwellings . . . shall abut a public street. . .” Because each
of the 42 townhomes abut a private roadway, they cannot be further subdivided into single-family
units and sold individually. To hold otherwise would make the distinction between what may be
built on private vs. public streets irrelevant.

To summarize, City Code requires that single-family lots must abut a public street. The lots in this
subdivision abut a private street, and therefore the multi-family townhome blocks may not be
further subdivided into single-family homes and sold individually.




Advisory Opinion – Appelgate / Murray City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 23, 2024, Page 8 of 9
                                             Conclusion

State law restricts municipalities from imposing conditions of approval which are not authorized
by applicable law. Because the condition to require emergency-only access at the connection point
between Fuji Avenue and Spring Clover Drive is not supported by substantial evidence the city
may not lawfully impose such as a condition of approval of the subdivision plat amendment.
Additionally, state law allows only those conditions to be imposed on conditional use permits
which mitigate a reasonably anticipated detrimental effect. Because the traffic study indicated the
townhomes will not adversely impact traffic level of service in the area, there are no anticipated
detrimental effects, and a condition to mitigate the same is therefore unlawful.

As to the final issue, City Code requires that single-family lots must abut a public street. The lots
in this subdivision abut a private street, and therefore the multi-family townhome blocks may not
be further subdivided into single-family homes and sold individually.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Appelgate / Murray City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 23, 2024, Page 9 of 9
NOTE:
This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not constitute
legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of
Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may not
reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.
While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.
An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.
Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in § 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are also
designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
