                       Advisory Opinion 260
                        Parties: Kristopher Sorensen; City of Saratoga Springs
                                        Issued: October 5, 2022

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                                   Exactions



The City may require the dedication and improvement of the half-width of the local
roadway adjacent to the property as a condition of issuing the building permit for a
single-family residence on a large agricultural parcel but may not lawfully require the
builder to install and dedicate an 8” [water/sewer] connection because it exceeds the
impact of the proposed development.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor          MARGARET W. BUSSE       JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                        Executive Director       Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION

         Advisory Opinion Requested By:         Kristopher Sorensen

         Local Government Entity:               City of Saratoga Springs

         Applicant for Land Use Approval:       Kristopher Sorensen

         Type of Property:                      RA-5
                                                Residential Agriculture, 5-acre minimum lot size

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:         October 5, 2022

         Opinion Authored By:                   Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                    ISSUES

             (1) Can the city require that the property be served by roads and utilities meeting the
                 minimum city standard before issuing a building permit for a single-family
                 residence on a large-lot agricultural residential property?
             (2) Can the city require that the home builder construct said roadway and utility
                 improvements and dedicate them to the public in connection with his request for a
                 single-family building permit?

                                       SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

         The city may require that the subject property be served by streets and utilities meeting
         current minimum standards as a condition of building permit approval. These
         improvements include pavement, curb, gutter, sidewalk, and connection to existing sewer
         and water lines. These standards must be met even where the requested building permit
         is for a single-family residence on a large agricultural parcel. Establishing the standards
         themselves is a public policy determination left to the city council.
The requirement that these improvements be in place prior to issuing a building permit is
a different question than whether the city may require the home builder to donate these
improvements and land they occupy to the city.

Requiring the home builder to improve and dedicate the roadway half-width adjacent to
the developing property is “roughly proportional” to the impact the development creates,
according to a commonly accepted rule of thumb as well as the established legal
standard, and is therefore lawful.

On the other hand, requiring the installation of a nearly 600 feet water line extension
beyond the subject property requires the home builder to provide improvements beyond
his own impact. Therefore, the requirement that the home builder install and dedicate a
culinary water line that extends nearly 600 feet from the subject property boundary to
connect to existing facilities cannot constitute a valid exaction.

Note that while the city may not require the home builder to install the water line extension,
the city may nonetheless withhold issuance of a building permit on the property until the
subject property is served by sufficient water flows and facilities. The home builder is
therefore left to decide whether he wants to wait until another property owner or the city
brings the water to the property, or if he wants to install it himself. This distinction, while
in the home builder’s favor from a legal point of view, may not provide him the desired
relief.

                                                 REVIEW

A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-
205. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land
use application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an
issue. It is hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve
differences in a fair and neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is
not binding, but, as explained at the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the
long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Kristopher Sorensen on January 6,
2022. A copy of that request was mailed to Mark Christensen, City Manager, City of
Saratoga Springs, 1307 N. Commerce Drive, Suite 200, Saratoga Springs, Utah 84045.

                                                 EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information
prior to completing this Advisory Opinion:

           1. Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Kristopher Sorensen on January 6,
              2022.

Advisory Opinion – Sorensen / Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 2 of 11
           2. Letter from Fredric J. Donaldson, on behalf of the City of Saratoga Springs, on
              March 29, 2022.
           3. Letter from Kristopher Sorensen on April 25, 2022.
           4. Letter from Fredric J. Donaldson, on behalf of the City of Saratoga Springs, on
              June 24, 2022.
           5. Email from Kristopher Sorensen on June 27, 2022.
           6. Letter from Fredric J. Donaldson, on behalf of the City of Saratoga Springs, on
              July 19, 2022.

                                                    BACKGROUND

Kristopher Sorensen (“Sorensen”) owns approximately 14.7 acres1 located at 1158 W.
Fairfield Road, Saratoga Springs, Utah (the “Property”). The Property is undeveloped and
used to graze cattle. Public infrastructure including sewer services, water lines, and fully
improved access roads, have not yet been installed adjacent to the Property. Similarly,
the closest water trunk line dead ends approximately 585 feet beyond the Property
boundary.

Sorensen desires to construct a single-family residence on the Property and has filed a
building permit request with the City of Saratoga Springs (“City”) to that end. In
accordance with local ordinances, the City is requiring Sorensen to dedicate and improve
the half-width of Fairfield Road right-of-way adjacent to the Property. The required
improvements include:

     (1) Dedicate property for roadway: Dedicate a portion of the Property for the right-of-
         way for Fairfield Road along the Property frontage;
     (2) Install pavement and other improvements: Pavement widening as needed to bring
         the road to City standards for a local residential road and install curb, gutter, and
         sidewalk across the Property frontage to City standards and install fire hydrants as
         required by the fire code;
     (3) Install off-site utility connections: Extend 8” City-owned culinary water trunk line to
         connect with new improvements.

Sorensen objects to the required improvements on several grounds. Primarily, the
improvements will cost over $487,0002 to install. Further, Sorensen maintains that several
similar properties in the City limits use private wells and septic tanks and were not,
apparently, required to connect to City sewer and utilities. Sorensen also maintains that
because he is not subdividing the property, he is not a developer or subdivider, and
therefore, the improvement requirements should not apply to him. He would like to
construct his single-family home without the roadway improvements to Fairfield Road,




1 Listed as 12.6 acres in some of the submitted materials.
2 Request for Advisory Opinion. Several different total amounts were given in the various responses. Each appears to

be an estimation, and vary in what they include. In all cases, the estimated totals include the cost of the building permit,
the cost of underlying land, the required improvements, and the impact fees paid.

Advisory Opinion – Sorensen / Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 3 of 11
and without connecting to existing water and sewer lines. 3 Sorensen has an on-site well
and ample room for a septic system.

Sorensen’s objections are nicely summed up in one response where he stated
“Developer/subdivider restrictions and requirements should not be placed on farmers,
ranchers, farmland, agriculturally zone land, or protected lands. Allowing a government
entity to impose these requirements upon those seeking to expand agricultural services
and production [creates] a heavy financial burden and impact on those that choose to
continue ag practices within a municipality and pay to enrich said municipalities with
development and permit revenues every time a farmer/rancher grades/discs a field,
constructs a fence, or disturbs more than 3,000 square feet of land. Ag producers should
be exempt from these requirements and have the right to farm their land and continue ag
practices.”4 Further, he maintains that these requirements “should not be imposed on the
Sorensens until they seek a land use change, rezone, or decide to develop the property
into a subdivision.”5

Presenting the issue from a different perspective, the City maintains that building a home
on the Property meets the Utah State Code definition of “development activity”6 and
creates demand and need for public facilities. Further, the City Code states that “All
developments will be required to install, and in some cases dedicate, to the City or
homeowner association, all offsite and onsite improvements necessary to mitigate the
impacts created by the new development.”7

The City concedes that, historically, City Code8 permitted large lot rural agricultural
properties to develop without connecting to the public sewer or water or improving the
adjacent roadway. However, the City ordinances have changed since those uses were
approved. The City states that they “are not obligated to maintain practices that are
outdated and not consistent with current applicable law and policies."9 Further, the City
maintains that it is “not treating Mr. Sorensen differently than it would treat any other
property owner in the RA-5 zone who chooses to develop a residence on his or her
property in the City at this time.”10

The City offers the reasoning below in connection to each requirement:
   (1) Dedicate a portion of the Property for the right-of-way for Fairfield Road along the
       Property frontage. The City maintains that Sorensen is required to dedicate only
       29’ which is the minimum half-width required for a local road right-of-way.
3 Sorensen has also argued that the property will lose its favorable “Green Belt” tax status once the improvements are

installed. However, the property tax status is immaterial to the legal analysis and conclusion we draw in this Advisory
Opinion and is outside our authority to opine on.
4 Ombudsman Response received from Sorensen dated April 23, 2022.
5 Saratoga Sorensen response dated June 26, 2022.
6 UTAH CODE § 10-9a-103(11) defines “development activity” as “any construction or expansion of a building, structure,

or use that creates additional demand and need for public facilities; any change in a use or a building or structure that
creates additional demand and need for public facilities; or any change in the use of land that creates additional demand
and need for public facilities.”
7 Saratoga Sorensen Ombudsman response dated June 26, 2022 quoting Saratoga Springs City Code 19.13.08.
8 Such development may have occurred under Utah County land use ordinances before Saratoga Springs incorporated.
9 Saratoga Sorensen Ombudsman response dated June 26, 2022.
10
     Saratoga Sorensen Ombudsman response dated June 26, 2022.

Advisory Opinion – Sorensen / Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 4 of 11
     (2) Pavement widening as needed to bring the road to City standards for a local
         residential road and install curb, gutter, and sidewalk across the Property frontage
         to City standards.
         City Code states that “[e]very developer is required to construct curb, gutter, and
         sidewalk to and along their property frontage to ensure that safe and efficient
         vehicle traffic and pedestrian traffic are facilitated to and across their
         development.”11 Further, in “good faith and in an effort to be collaborative,” the City
         has agreed not to require Sorensen to install certain storm water or secondary
         water improvements.

     (3) Install utilities from existing City connections to the Property as well as along the
         adjacent Property frontage. Utilities include an 8” culinary water trunk line which
         currently dead ends 585 feet from the Property boundary.
         The 8” line is the minimum sized water line that can be connected to the City
         system per City Code and the City’s development and engineering standards.12
         Further, all residential improvements are required to provide for adequate fire flows
         to protect life and property. This entails either the construction of fire hydrants and
         water lines sufficient to provide adequate fire flows, construction of a water tank
         for fire protection, or installation of sprinklers in compliance with International Fire
         Code and City standards.

The City’s arguments can be summed up as “the requirements the City has requested
from Mr. Sorensen are the minimum necessary for the development of the residence Mr.
Sorensen is seeking to undertake. The City is only requiring Mr. Sorensen to construct
infrastructure necessary for his development activity and compensate for the impacts his
development activity will create on existing infrastructure.”13 Furthermore, “the City is not
requiring any more than necessary to serve the needs of this residence.”14

As Sorensen and the City are at an impasse, Sorensen has requested this Advisory
Opinion to determine whether the City may require him to dedicate and improve the half-
width of Fairfield Road and to install a water trunk line extension to connect his
development with the existing water line.

                                                    ANALYSIS

     I.          Cities can require that roads and utilities meet minimum established
                 standards before issuing a building permit for a single-family residence.

It has not been disputed that the language of the City Code requires that the roadway
half-width adjacent to the Property be dedicated and improved, including utility
improvements, as a prerequisite to getting a building permit. Sorensen has not disputed

11 Saratoga Springs response dated June 23, 2022 quoting Saratoga Springs City Code 19.13.08(1).
12 Saratoga Springs response dated June 24, 2022 quoting Saratoga Springs City Code 19.13.08(3).
13 Saratoga Sorensen Ombudsman response dated June 27, 2022.
14 Saratoga Springs response dated June 24, 2022.


Advisory Opinion – Sorensen / Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 5 of 11
that the language of the City Code requires these improvements, even for his building
permit for a single-family home on nearly 15 acres. The question, therefore, is whether
the City may legally set such standards, and also, whether these standards are lawful as
applied to Mr. Sorensen in particular.

It is established that an owner of property holds it subject to zoning ordinances enacted
pursuant to a state's police power.15 Police power is “the capacity of the states to regulate
behavior and enforce order within their territory for the betterment of the health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of their inhabitants.”16 The U.S. Supreme Court has further
held that the valid exercise of police power includes land use regulations. 17 The
enactment of a standard land use ordinances is a legislative decision subject to the
“reasonably debatable” test whereby a reviewing court must presume that a properly
enacted land use regulation is valid and determine only whether “it is reasonably
debatable that the land use regulation is consistent with [applicable state law]”18 and
therefore in the interest of the general welfare.

The answer to “can the city do this?” is nearly always yes under this legal test. On its
face, it is “reasonably debatable” that the disputed requirements are in the interest of the
general welfare of the citizens where the City has a duty to provide streets, sewage
disposal, and clean water for residents. Whether or not a city enacts ordinances that allow
for more affordable rural development that would permit construction of a single-family
residence on a large agricultural parcel using septic systems and water wells as well as
the existing roadways without improvement is a policy decision left to the local elected
officials.

Therefore, the answer to the first question is yes, the City can require that roads and
utilities meet minimum established standards before issuing a building permit for a single-
family residence on a large-lot agricultural residential property.

     II.         Requiring Sorensen to dedicate and improve the Fairfield Roadway half-
                 width adjacent to the Property offsets the impact of development and
                 therefore is a valid exaction, however, requiring the installation of a 585
                 feet culinary water line extension beyond the property boundary exceeds
                 the impact of development and therefore cannot constitute a valid
                 exaction.

The next question is whether the City may require Sorensen to install the required
improvements and donate these and the underlying land to the public as a requirement
for receiving a building permit for one single-family home.




15 Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U.S. 365, 71 L. Ed. 303, 47 S. Ct. 114 (1926).
16 Police Power, Encyclopedia Britannica.
17 See, e.g. Euclid v. Ambler Realty, 272 U.S. 365 (1926).
18 UTAH CODE § 10-9a-801(3)(a).


Advisory Opinion – Sorensen / Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 6 of 11
                                 A. The legal standard for development exactions

Saratoga Springs’ requirement that the Sorensen dedicate land, roadway, and utility
improvements to the City as a condition of receiving a building permit is a development
exaction. A development exaction “is a government-mandated contribution of property
imposed as a condition” of development approval.19

The Takings Clause of the U.S. Constitution20 protects private property from governmental
taking without payment. It reads, “[n]or shall private property be taken for public use,
without just compensation.”21 “One of the principal purposes of the takings clause is to
‘bar Government from forcing some people alone to bear public burdens which, in all
fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.’”22

As a result, generally speaking, the government may not require a property owner to
donate land or improvements to the public unless they are prepared to pay for that
dedication. As an exception, however, a government entity may require dedication of land
and/or improvements as a condition of development approval to the extent the dedication
offsets the impact the development will put on the community.

An exaction is valid and proportionate only when it offsets the costs of a development’s
impact, and no more. An excessive exaction requires a property owner to pay for impacts
beyond his own.23 A principal objective of the test is to “bar Government from forcing some
people alone to bear public burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by
the public as a whole.”24 Therefore, the community may require dedication of land or
construction of public resources such as roadways and water trunk lines as long as they
offset the impact of proposed development.

The determination of how to measure whether the dedication offsets the impact of
development has been termed the “rough proportionality test,” and is codified in UTAH
CODE § 10-9a-508(1).25

           A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development
           proposed in a land use application . . ., if:
           (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
               each exaction; and,
           (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
               impact of the proposed development.



19 B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, (BAM III), 2012 UT 26, ¶16.
20 Also Article I Section 22 of the Utah Constitution.
21 United States Constitution, 5th Amendment.
22 Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994) quoting Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49, L. Ed. 2d 1554, 80

S. Ct. 1563 (1960).
23 Banberry Development Corporation v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899, 903 (Utah 1981).
24 Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960).
25 Codifies the groundbreaking U.S. Supreme Court cases Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825 (1987)

and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994).

Advisory Opinion – Sorensen / Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 7 of 11
UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1) (emphasis added). If a proposed exaction satisfies this test,
and is otherwise legal, it is valid. If the exaction fails the test, it violates protections
guaranteed by the Takings Clauses of the Utah and U.S. Constitutions and is illegal. 26
Accordingly, we next analyze the exactions to determine whether they satisfy the rough
proportionality test.

           B.          Essential link exists between legitimate governmental interest and exaction

The first part of UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1) requires an essential link between a legitimate
governmental interest and the exaction imposed. The City’s requirement to dedicate and
improve property along the right-of-way along Sorensen’s frontage is based in the City’s
legitimate interest in protecting and promoting public health, safety, and welfare. “In order
for a government to be effective, it needs the power to establish . . . public throughways.
. . for the convenience and safety of the public.”27

Similarly, the City’s requirement that Sorensen install the 585’ culinary water trunk line
extension to connect the proposed facilities to the existing water main is based in the
City’s legitimate interest in protecting and promoting public health, safety, and welfare.
This extension of the water line is necessary to connect the proposed home to the existing
water main.

Accordingly, the essential link portion of the rough proportionality test is satisfied.

           C.          Nature and Extent aspect of the rough proportionality test

The next step in the rough proportionality test requires that “each exaction is roughly
proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the proposed development.”28
The nature aspect of the rough proportionality test requires an exaction provide a solution
to a problem the proposed development presents. Sorensen proposes to construct a
single-family residence on the Property. The roadway adjacent to and directly serving the
Property lacks an improved roadway and water line.

The required land dedication, roadway and utility improvements are immediately adjacent
to the Property, running along the edge of the Property and intended to serve the residents
and visitors of the proposed residence. Similarly, extending the water line from existing
terminus will directly serve the Property. Without this connection, the Property will not
have access to water. Therefore, the required roadway and utility improvements directly
provide a solution to the problem the proposed development creates. Accordingly, the
nature aspect of the test is satisfied.

In the final step of the rough proportionality test, the City must “compare the government’s
cost of alleviating the development’s impact on infrastructure with the cost to [the


26 Call v. West Jordan, 614 P.2d 1257, 1259 (Utah 1980).
27 Saratoga Springs response dated March 29, 2022 quoting Carrier v. Lindquist, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18.
28 UTAH CODE §10-9a-508(1)(b).


Advisory Opinion – Sorensen / Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 8 of 11
developer] of the exaction,”29 therefore looking at whether the exaction is proportional in
extent.

The Utah Supreme Court has provided a single example of how to balance extent.30 In
B.A.M. II, the Court held that requiring the dedication of 13 feet of right-of-way for the
expansion of an adjacent roadway as a condition of approval of a fifteen-acre residential
subdivision satisfied the extent aspect of the rough proportionality test. In that case, traffic
engineers estimated increased traffic from the planned subdivision represented 5% of the
total area-wide traffic increase yet the cost of the disputed dedication amounted to only
1% of area-wide road improvement projects.31 Therefore, the Court concluded that the
exaction was less than the impact and did not violate the extent aspect of the rough-
proportionality standard.

In the case at hand, “[n]o precise mathematical calculation is required”32 however, the
City must nonetheless make “some sort of individualized determination that the required
dedication is related both in nature and extent to the impact of the proposed
development.”33

The City has not provided a monetary cost for the impact of the proposed development.34
Instead, the City provides a logical argument that, we conclude, fits the established legal
framework. The City argues that the requirement for a developer to dedicate and improve
the half-width of the local roadway fronting the property is a common standard, and one
that appears to be widely credible throughout the development community. It is grounded
in the need for a practical, straight-forward standard to apply in the thousands of building
permit approvals made across the state each year. The half-width standard fits the legal
standard explained in B.A.M. II and is reasonable on its face. If everyone in the City
improves the local roadway half-width adjacent to their property when they build their
home or their business, we have local roadways that we all can use. Larger lots require
more roadway and smaller lots require less roadway - thus balancing proportionality.

As argued by the City, this rule of thumb to evaluate extent has been used in past Advisory
Opinions:

           It is common for a City to exact the dedication and construction of a half-
           width of a road, curb, gutter, etc., along the entire frontage of the property.
           This half-width frontage dedication and construction is common practice
           and generally accepted as roughly proportionate to a typical road impact.
           An abutting half-width generally does not require one developer to provide


29 B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, 2012 UT 26, ¶5, 282 P.3d 41.
30 Id.
31 The estimated value of total area-wide road improvements was $6,748,700 and the value of the property to be

dedicated was $83,997, representing 1.2% of the total.
32 See Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391-92.
33 Id.
34 This is consistent with all prior exaction analysis requests to our office. Our office has never received a monetary cost

estimate for the impact of development. We assume that this estimate cannot readily be calculated, or, is otherwise not
realistically available.

Advisory Opinion – Sorensen / Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 9 of 11
           improvements that others should provide — i.e., the opposite abutting
           landowner typically provides the other half-width.35

When we apply the standard rule of thumb, that “a city may exact the dedication and
construction of a half-width of a road, curb, gutter, etc., along the entire frontage of the
property” the extent of the requirement to dedicate and improve the half-width adjacent
to the property offsets the impact of development and appears legal.

However, the City is also asking for improvements beyond the half-width adjacent to the
Property. Even were Sorensen to install and dedicate the roadway and utility
improvements adjacent to the Property, the new water trunk line would be dry because it
wouldn’t connect to the existing water line. As a result, and in order for the Property to
have access to water rather than just remain an empty pipe, the City is requiring that
Sorensen extend the new water trunk line nearly 600 feet beyond the edge of his property
to connect with the now dead-ended water line. Because this extension extends beyond
the edge of the Property, it exceeds the half-width standard. More importantly, the
condition with require Sorensen to address more than his own impact on the City’s ability
to provide him water service. Consequently, the City’s requirement to install this off-site
improvement exceeds Sorensen’s impact on development and appears violate the
takings clause.

To summarize, the extent aspect of the rough proportionality test is satisfied with respect
to the half-width roadway dedication and improvements, including the utility
improvements adjacent to the property, and appears legal. However, the requirement to
install and dedicate the water trunk line extension extending nearly 600 feet beyond the
Property to connect to existing facilities exceeds the impact of development and therefore
does not appear legal.

                                                  Conclusion

Saratoga Springs may require that the Property be served by streets and utilities meeting
current standards, including pavement, curb, gutter, sidewalks, and a connection to
existing sewer and water lines as a condition of building permit approval. This is true even
where the requested building permit is for a single-family residence on a large agricultural
parcel. The City Council has the authority to regulate use of property for the health, safety,
and welfare of the citizens, including establishing these standards.

However, the requirement that these improvements be in place prior to issuing a building
permit is a different question than whether the City may require that the builder install
them and give them and the underlying property, to the City.

The requirement that Sorensen dedicate and improve the roadway half-width adjacent to
the Property is “roughly proportional” to the impact the development creates and is

35 Saratoga Springs Response dated July 19, 2022 quoting Ombudsman Advisory Opinion 205. See also Ombudsman

Advisory Opinions 221 and 180. While not legally binding, our Office does endeavor to issue opinions using consistent
analysis and reasoning.

Advisory Opinion – Sorensen / Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 10 of 11
therefore lawful. However, the requirement that Sorensen install and dedicate a water line
extension that extends nearly 600 feet beyond the Property boundary to connect to
existing facilities requires that the property owner be responsible for improvements
beyond his own impact. This requirement therefore cannot constitute a valid exaction.

Note that the City cannot require that Sorensen install the water line extension and
dedicate it to the public. However, the City may require that this disputed water line be in
place before a building permit on the Property is issued. As a result, Sorensen is left to
decide whether he wants to wait until another property owner or the City brings the water
to the edge of the Property, or if he wants to install it himself to bring the needed
infrastructure to his property. This distinction, while in Sorensen’s favor, may not provide
him the relief he presently seeks.




Jordan Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Sorensen / Saratoga Springs
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 5, 2022 Page 11 of 11
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code.
It does not constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the
opinions or policy of the State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The
opinions expressed are arrived at based on a summary review of the factual
situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may not reflect the
opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his
understanding of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in
this matter. Anyone with an interest in these issues who must protect that
interest should seek the advice of his or her own legal counsel and not rely
on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or advance his
interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
is not binding on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same
issue that is the subject of an advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in
litigation, and that cause of action is litigated on the same facts and
circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of
action from the date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the
court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil penalty may also be available if the
court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use applicant or a
government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and
the opinions, writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the
Property Rights Ombudsman are not admissible as evidence in a judicial
action, except in small claims court, a judicial review of arbitration, or in
determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process.
Advisory Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and
avoid litigation. All of the statutory procedures in place for Advisory
Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the Office of the Property Rights
Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to resolve disputes
in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion attorney
fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah
Code, are also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are
awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if those circumstances are
met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award them.
