                     Advisory Opinion #203
                                 Parties: HF Holdings, Inc.; Castle Valley
                                        Issued: November 8, 2018

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                  Entitlement to Application Approval
                                   Complete Land Use Application
                                 Review for Application Completeness
                                  Substantive Review of Application

Utah law provides that an application is complete and entitled to subsequent, substantive
review by the land use authority when the applicant has submitted an application “in a
form that complies with the requirements of applicable ordinances and pays all
applicable fees.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(c). Simply stated, this means the
application review occurs in two stages, a form review first, which if complete entitles the
applicant to a substantive review. An application must be complete in form―but not
necessarily in substance―to qualify as complete for purposes of vesting.

The applicant in this case submitted complete solar permit applications on June 1, 2017,
when they provided the solar permit application forms along with documents required by
that application. Accordingly, the Town must review the substance and content of the
applications under the land use regulations in effect on June 1, 2017. Additionally, the
Town is obligated to approve the applications once they comply with the substantive
provisions of those regulations.



                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI     BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director    Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor



                                             ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:               HF Holdings, Inc.

        Local Government Entity:                     Castle Valley Town

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:             HF Holdings, Inc.

        Type of Property:                            Residential

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:               November 8, 2018

        Opinion Authored By:                         Jordan S. Cullimore
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                      ISSUE
        Did the Town of Castle Valley properly determine that the Hollings solar permit applications
        were incomplete and therefore not entitled to substantive review under the land use regulations in
        effect at the time of submission?

                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        Utah law provides that an application is complete and entitled to subsequent, substantive review
        by the land use authority when the applicant has submitted an application “in a form that
        complies with the requirements of applicable ordinances and pays all applicable fees.” UTAH
        CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(c). Simply stated, this means the application review occurs in two stages, a
        form review first, which if complete entitles the applicant to a substantive review. An application
        must be complete in form―but not necessarily in substance―to qualify as complete for
        purposes of vesting.

        In this case, the Hollings submitted complete solar permit applications on June 1, 2017, when
        they provided the solar permit application forms along with documents required by that
        application. Accordingly, the Town must review the substance and content of the applications
        under the land use regulations in effect on June 1, 2017. Additionally, the Town is obligated to
        approve the applications once they comply with the substantive provisions of those regulations
                                            REVIEW
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Clayton Preece, Attorney for HF
Holdings, Inc., on February 201, 2018. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to
David Erley, Mayor of Castle Valley Town, at HC 64 Box 2705, Castle Valley, Utah.

                                           EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion submitted by Clayton H. Preece, Attorney for HF
        Holdings, Inc., on February 21, 2018.
     2. Reply submitted by Christina R. Sloan, Attorney for Castle Valley, on March 23, 2018.
     3. Response submitted by Clayton Preece, Attorney for HF Holdings, on April 20, 2018.
     4. Response submitted by Christina Sloan, Attorney for Castle Valley, on May 10, 2018.
     5. Response submitted by Clayton Preece, Attorney for HF Holdings, on May 25, 2018.
     6. Email response sent by Christina Sloan, Attorney for Castle Valley, on May 31, 2018.

                                          BACKGROUND
In June 2016, the Castle Valley Planning and Land Use Commission began discussing the idea of
amending the Town’s ordinance regulating the installation and use of solar panels, which, at the
time, was relatively permissive. From June 2016 to March 2017 the Town periodically discussed
the amendments, but little progress was made. On April 5, 2017 the Planning Commission again
considered amending the ordinances regulating solar panels, and specifically considered
proposed language “limiting the capacity of solar systems, in both footprint and kilowatts, and
distinguishing between different procedures for approving a small routine system and a larger
non-routine system.” Letter from Castle Valley Town, dated March 23, 2018.

The Planning Commission further discussed proposed changes at its May 3, 2017 meeting and
decided to schedule a public hearing on the matter for June 7, 2017. The Town published notice
of the June 7, 2017 public hearing on June 1, 2017. Also on June 1, 2017, George and Debora
Hollings on behalf of HF Holdings, Inc., submitted two solar permit applications to the Town.
The first application requested approval of a 48-kilowatt system on a parcel known as Lot 54 in


Advisory Opinion – HF Holdings, Inc.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 8, 2018        Page 2 of 9
the Town. The second application requested approval of a 75-kilowatt system on the adjacent
parcel, Lot 55. The Hollings, through HF Holdings, Inc., own both the lots.

The Town reviewed the applications as “non-routine” applications under applicable regulations,
which meant the Planning Commission would act as the land use authority to review the
applications. While the review process for the solar permit applications was ongoing, the
Planning Commission held the public hearing to consider the proposed amendments to solar
requirements at its June 7, 2017 Planning Commission meeting. Further changes to the proposed
ordinance were made as a result of that meeting, and on June 13, 2017, the Planning Commission
held a special meeting to finalize and recommend approval of the draft amendments to the Town
Council. The matter was then placed on the Town Council’s June 21, 2017 agenda “for
discussion and possible action.”

On June 14, 2017 the Town sent a letter to the Hollings informing them that the solar permit
applications were missing needed information. The letter “listed required items with
particularity.”

Specifically, the letter noted the following:

     1. Measurements on drawings and plot plan must be drawn to a measureable scale as stated
        on Line a) of the Solar Permit Application and be clearly and legibly labeled.
     2. All existing structures and their designated use must be included on plot plan as stated on
        Line a) 3. of the Solar Permit Application.
     3. Measurements on the Solar Permit Application and the drawings and plat plan must be
        consistent and show accurate layout and dimensions of proposed panels that are drawn to
        a measurable scale.
     4. Discrepancies in measurement must be corrected:
            a. Panel dimensions on application do not match dimensions form manufacturer’s
                specifications, nor do they match dimensions of roof panels as noted on plat plan
                submitted by applicant.
            b. Panel dimensions on application do not accommodate 40 modules.
            c. Setback dimensions on application do not correspond to plot plan.
            d. Square footage of roof panels exceeds roof space.
     5. Information stating “TBD” will not be accepted. Specific information must be submitted
        as requested on the Solar Permit Application form.
     6. Three complete copies of the Grand County Building Permit application must be
        submitted as stated on the first line of the application.

The letter also posed additional questions and requested information in writing “as part of [the
Town’s] consideration for a non-routine permit.” Hollings’ Letter Requesting Advisory Opinion,
Attachment D, dated February 21, 2018.

On June 21, 2017, the Hollings supplemented their solar permit applications with additional
information in an attempt to address the Town’s requests. According to the Town, the newly
supplemented applications “still lacked material information required by the Town’s land use
regulations.” The Town then notified Hollings on July 25, 2017 that the Town had formally

Advisory Opinion – HF Holdings, Inc.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 8, 2018        Page 3 of 9
deemed the solar permit applications incomplete “with respect to a number of specific, objective,
ordinance-based application requirements.”

Also on June 21, 2017, the Town Council formally amended its ordinance to impose additional
regulations on solar installations that would apparently prohibit the Hollings’ proposed systems
on lots 54 and 55. The Town has encouraged the Hollings to submit new applications with the
understanding that the applications will be subject to the new, more restrictive regulations. The
Hollings dispute the Town’s conclusion that their original applications were incomplete.

In light of this sequence of events, the Town and the Hollings agreed to request an Advisory
Opinion from the Ombudsman’s Office regarding the Town’s determination that the Hollings’
applications were incomplete. The Hollings submitted a Request for Advisory Opinion to our
Office on February 21, 2018 asking specifically whether the Town properly 1) determined the
Solar Applications were incomplete, and 2) denied the Hollings substantive review of their
applications.

                                                  ANALYSIS
The State Land Use Development and Management Act (LUDMA) provides that whenever a
municipality receives a land use application, such as a solar permit, it must, in a timely manner,
“determine whether [the] application is complete for…purposes of subsequent, substantive land
use authority review.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509.5(1)(a). The determination of when an
application is complete is important because:

           An applicant who has submitted a complete land use application...including the
           payment of all application fees, is entitled to substantive review of the application
           under the land use regulations:
                  A) in effect on the date that the application is complete; and
                  B) applicable to the application or to the information shown on the
                       application.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(i). Once an applicant has submitted a complete application under
the provision just cited, a municipality may not subsequently change the rules1 that apply to that
application.2 Hence, the Hollings are entitled to substantive review of their applications under
the regulations in effect on the date the applications became complete.

I.         Whether a Land Use Application is Complete for Vesting Purposes Depends on
           Form, not Substance

The Utah Code plainly states that “[a] land use application is considered submitted and complete
when the applicant provides the application in a form that complies with the requirements of

1
  See Western Land Equities v. Logan City, 617 P.2d 388, 396 (Utah 1980) (“A property owner should be able to plan
for developing his property in a manner permitted by existing zoning regulations with some degree of assurance that
the basic ground rules will not be changed in midstream.”)
2
  Certain exceptions apply. See UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(ii)(A)-(B). Neither party has asserted that either of
these exceptions applies. Accordingly, we will not consider them in this opinion.
Advisory Opinion – HF Holdings, Inc.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 8, 2018        Page 4 of 9
applicable ordinances and pays all applicable fees. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(c) (emphasis
added). This provision identifies only two criteria an applicant must satisfy to submit a complete
application: 1) the applicant must submit an application in a form that complies with the
requirements of applicable local ordinances, and 2) the applicant must pay all applicable fees
associated with the application submittal. See id.

Stated differently, the application, to be complete, does not have to necessarily contain all of the
information (substance) necessary to perform a comprehensive review of the proposal. The
application must simply include the documents (form3) initially required by “objective
ordinance-based application criteria” in the applicable local ordinance. See UTAH CODE § 10-9a-
509.5(1)(b). As discussed further below, the content of the initially required documents does not
need to comply substantively in all respects at this point for the application to be complete. Once
an applicant has submitted a complete application made a good-faith effort to provide the
necessary information in the required documents, the application vests and is then entitled to
substantive review under the land use regulations in effect at that time.

II.        Completeness Review is One Stage of a Two-stage Application Review Process
           Contemplated by LUDMA

LUDMA lays out a two-stage application review process.4 First, the local government must
determine whether an application is complete in form.5 Once the application contains the initially
required documents, the municipality moves to the second stage of the review process—the
substantive review stage.6 In the substantive review stage, the land use authority reviews the
information contained within the required documents under the land use regulations “in effect on
the date [the] application is complete,” and “applicable to the application or to the information
shown on the application.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(i). The land use authority ensures the
proposal complies with the local ordinance’s substantive provisions, such as setbacks, maximum
height requirements, etc. In the case of a solar panel system, the local government will also
ensure the system meets technical requirements included in the local ordinance or applicable
development standards and building codes.

It is typical for the municipality to conduct an initial substantive review, followed by a request
for additional information and documentation from the applicant. The municipality may need
such additional information or documentation to answer questions that arose in the initial review
and to verify compliance with applicable rules and regulations. The municipality may also direct
the applicant to correct mistakes or omissions in the initial submittal and resubmit updated plans.

The full substantive review of an application may include one “review/resubmittal” round or
multiple rounds, depending on the complexity and technical nature of the application. After the

3
  See Form, Black’s Law Dictionary (10th ed. 2014) (defining the term “form” as “[t]he outer shape, structure, or
configuration of something, as distinguished from its substance or matter”).
4
  These discrete stages illustrate there is a meaningful difference between review of the form of the application and
review of the substance of the application.
5
  See UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509.5(1) (providing that a municipality must first determine whether an application is
complete).
6
  See UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509.5(2) (indicating that once an application is complete, the municipality must then
review the substance of the complete application for compliance).
Advisory Opinion – HF Holdings, Inc.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 8, 2018        Page 5 of 9
municipality completes substantive review of the application and confirms that it complies with
applicable regulations in effect at the time the applicant submitted a complete application, the
applicant is entitled to approval of the compliant application.

The first stage of the review process, or the completeness review, is intended to be simple and
straight-forward. The bulk of the review occurs in the substantive review, when the local
government reviews the application for compliance.

III.       The Hollings Submitted Complete Applications, Entitled to Substantive Review, on
           June 1, 2017

The Town decided the applications submitted by the Hollings on June 1, 2017, were incomplete
and required additional information. The Hollings responded with supplemental information on
June 21, 2017, then the Town determined the application were still deficient even after
supplementation.

The Hollings, however, argue that “many of the deficiencies alleged by the Town do not relate to
any criteria set forth in the Town’s ordinances and adopted application forms in effect at the time
the [a]pplications were filed and supplemented.” The Hollings further assert that “[t]he
information requested by the Town and used by the Town as the basis for its determination that
the [a]pplications are incomplete goes beyond that set forth in the Town’s adopted forms and
ordinances….”

The Town claims that the applications, even after the June 21, 2017 supplementation, were
incomplete and that the Town properly denied the applications at that time. Specifically, the
Town argues that the applications were missing “crucial and required information,” the most
important of which included:

           1) a description of the use of the garage on Lot 55, which information is both
           required and particularly relevant considering the commercial-sized capacity of
           the system; 2) the total elevation of the system, as mounted, which information is
           required to determine if the proposal conforms to the Town’s building height
           limitations; 3) [Rocky Mountain Power’s] review and approval of the proposed
           solar systems, which is required by both [Rocky Mountain Power] and the Town;
           and 4) information and clarity related to whether and how the system will be grid-
           tied, including the location of the transfer switch, which information is critical in
           protecting the integrity of the Town’s grid system and the health and safety of its
           residents.

Letter from Town of Castle Valley, dated March 23, 2018.

           A.          The Castle Valley Town Ordinance Requires an Applicant to Submit Certain
                       Documents to be Deemed Complete

The Town misapprehends what an application must include to become complete for vesting
purposes. To determine whether the Hollings’ applications were complete for purposes of

Advisory Opinion – HF Holdings, Inc.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 8, 2018        Page 6 of 9
subsequent, substantive review, we look to the Town’s applicable land use regulations to
determine what the “objective ordinance-based application criteria” are for a solar permit
application.

Town Ordinance 95-6 indicates the Town “will have a Castle Valley Building Permit
Information Sheet which clearly specifies the submissions, forms, agreements and fees which the
Town requires in order to gain Town Approval on a building permit application for submission
to the County.” CASTLE VALLEY TOWN ORDINANCE 95-6, § 1. The applicable Building Permit
Information Sheet states that “[f]or…solar upgrades or installations only, a Castle Valley…Solar
Permit must be obtained and zoning approval given on the Grand County Building Permit form.”
Letter from Town of Castle Valley, Town Attachment 1, dated March 23, 2018.

This information directs an applicant to fill out a Castle Valley Solar Permit application, and a
Grand County Building Permit Form. Thus, once an applicant has filled out these two forms and
included any additional documents required by those forms, the application will be complete for
subsequent review of the content, or substance, of the submitted forms and documents. Requiring
more than this would confuse reviewing an application for completeness, with substantive
review of the application, which is a separate and distinct review under LUDMA. In this context,
complete does not mean compliant.

The Town of Castle Valley Solar Permit Application requires the following:

           Applicant provides:

           a) Plot plan drawn to scale (3 copies: 1 for Town, 1 for County, 1 for your
           records)
                   Plan Shall Include:
                   1. Lot #, names, addresses, phone #, signature of lot owners and contractor
                   2. Property lines, road easement lines and setbacks
                   3. Existing structures (designate use)
                   4. Proposed structures (designate use)
                   5. Location of solar installation
                   6. Dimensions locating all of the above on property
           b) Diagram of footprint for solar installation with measurements (show post
           locations)
           c) Elevation drawings with height measurements (include post dimensions)
           d) Grand County Building Permit Application
           e) $15 (check payable to the “Town of Castle Valley”)

Letter from Town of Castle Valley, Town Attachment 2, dated March 23, 2018.

This list along with the statement on the Building Permit Information Sheet, and repeated in the
Solar Permit Application form, requiring the applicant to also submit a Grand County Building
Permit form with the application, provides the “objective ordinance-based criteria” an
application must satisfy to be deemed complete in a form that complies with the requirements of
applicable local ordinances.

Advisory Opinion – HF Holdings, Inc.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 8, 2018        Page 7 of 9
           B.          The Hollings’ June 1, 2017 Applications Included the Required Documents

The parties, in their submittals, focus heavily on the content of the submitted applications, and
argue extensively over whether the applications contain all the information necessary to
complete the review, and whether the information is accurate. These questions should be
reserved primarily for the substantive review stage of the process. The primary question in the
completeness review stage of the process, as indicated above, is whether the application includes
the documents required by objective, ordinance-based criteria for the specific application.7

It is apparent from the parties’ submissions that the Hollings submitted complete applications,
albeit in bare-bones fashion, on June 1, 2017. These applications included plot plans that
attempted to show the required and relevant information indicated on the solar application form.
The plot plans also attempted to depict the solar installation footprints. The applications further
included elevation drawings, and the Grand County Building Permit Application. The applicant
filled out the remainder of the application forms, and neither party disputes that the applicant
paid the $15 application fee. Thus, the Hollings included the documents required by the
objective, ordinance-based criteria to begin the substantive review process. Accordingly, we
conclude that the applications, for purposes of vesting, became complete on June 1, 2017 when
the Hollings submitted their initial applications for review.

This conclusion is supported by the Town’s June 14, 2017 letter to the Hollings. Nowhere in that
letter does the town indicate that the applicant failed to submit a document required by the
Town’s Solar Permit Application. Instead, the Town explains that the applicant must make
changes to the submitted documents, requests supplemental documentation and information, and
indicates that additional copies of the application are still needed. In other words, the June 14,
2017 letter functionally amounts to an initial substantive review of the submitted applications.

To require an applicant to provide documentation and information in an initial application at the
level of detail asserted by the Town to qualify as complete would render the distinction made in
LUDMA between review for a complete application and substantive review meaningless.
Furthermore, if a local government could disqualify an application as incomplete simply because
it didn’t initially comply substantively in every way with existing ordinances, situations could
arise where a municipality could deny an application it didn’t like under the pretense of
incompleteness, in order to defeat vesting.

                                                CONCLUSION
Utah law provides that an application is complete and entitled to subsequent, substantive review
by the land use authority when the applicant has submitted an application “in a form that
complies with the requirements of applicable ordinances and pays all applicable fees.” UTAH


7
  This naturally presumes the applicant has made an honest, good faith effort to fill out and provide the required
documents. If the applicant has done this, minor omissions should not disqualify the application as incomplete. The
local government must allow the applicant to correct such substantive errors through the review process, without the
application losing its vested status under a particular ordinance.
Advisory Opinion – HF Holdings, Inc.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 8, 2018        Page 8 of 9
CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(c). Simply stated, this means the application must be complete not
necessarily in substance but only in form to qualify as complete for purposes of vesting.

An applicant submits a complete application when he submits documents required by objective
ordinance based application criteria. The content of the documents does not need to comply
substantively in all respects at this point for the application to be complete. Once an applicant
has submitted a complete application made a good-faith effort to provide the necessary
information in the initially required documents, the application vests and is then entitled to
substantive review under the land use regulations in effect at that time.

In this case, the Hollings submitted complete solar permit applications on June 1, 2017, when
they provided the solar permit application forms along with documents required by that
application. Accordingly, the Town must review the substance and content of the applications
under the land use regulations in effect on June 1, 2017. Additionally, the Town is obligated to
approve the applications once they comply with the substantive provisions of those regulations.



Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – HF Holdings, Inc.
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
November 8, 2018        Page 9 of 9
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
