                     Advisory Opinion #212
                       Parties: Village Development Group / Silver Creek Village
                                            v. Summit County
                                         Issued: June 21, 2019

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                               Compliance With Land Use Ordinances
                        Entitlement to Application Approval (Vested Rights)
                                   Interpretation of Ordinances

The principles of ordinance interpretation mandate that all relevant provisions be given
weight and meaning. Also, relevant provisions should be read in harmony if possible.
Both parties place emphasis on certain provisions regarding allowed uses, and disregard
others. The correct interpretation requires that they all be read in harmony.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI    BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director   Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor



                                             ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:              Wade R. Budge
                                                    Attorney for Silver Creek Village

        Local Government Entity:                    Summit County

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:            Silver Creek Village

        Type of Property:                           Commercial

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:              June 21, 2019

        Opinion Authored By:                        Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
                                                    Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                                     ISSUE

        Did the Summit County Community Development Director correctly determine that Reception
        Center was not an allowed use on Parcel 8.4 of Silver Creek Village?


                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        The principles of ordinance interpretation mandate that all relevant provisions be given weight
        and meaning. Also, relevant provisions should be read in harmony if possible. Both parties place
        emphasis on certain provisions regarding allowed uses, and disregard others. The correct
        interpretation requires that they all be read in harmony. Therefore, “Reception Center” is an
        allowed use on Parcel 8.4 as long as it is “generally for non-commercial use.”


                                                   REVIEW
        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Wade R. Budge, counsel for Silver Creek
Village, on May 9, 2019. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Thomas Fisher,
Summit County Manager on May 10, 2019.


                                                        EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Letter from Wade Budge to Pat Putt, titled Request for Use Determination, DA Parcel
        8.4, Silver Creek Village, Parcel Number SCVC10, dated March 14, 2019.
     2. Letter from Patrick Putt to Wade Budge, titled Use Determination, DA Parcel 8.4, Silver
        Creek Village, Parcel Number SCVC10, dated April 11, 2019.
     3. Letter from Wade Budge to Patrick Putt titled Appeal of Land Use Determination for
        Silver Creek Village, DA Parcel 8.4, dated April 18, 2019.
     4. Letter from Wade Budge to County Council of Summit County titled Initial Submission,
        Appeal of Land Use Determination for Silver Creek Village, DA Parcel 8.4, dated April
        26, 2019.
     5. Document prepared by Jami Bracken, Deputy Summit County Attorney, titled Response
        of the Community Development Director to the Appeal of an Administrative Decision,
        Dated May 3, 2019.
     6. Letter from Wade Budge to County Council of Summit County, titled Reply, Appeal of
        Land Use Determination for Silver Creek Village, DA Parcel 8.4, dated May 8, 2019.
     7. Various maps and attachments to the above documents.
     8. Letter from Jami Bracken, Deputy Summit County Attorney, titled Advisory Opinion
        Request: Village Development Group (Silver Creek Village Parcel 8.4 or Lot 10), dated
        May 24, 2019.



                                          THE QUALITY OF SERVICES MATRIX
A well-known matrix applies perhaps to all service industries, but especially to the provision of
legal services, and in particular to the services of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman.
The matrix consists of three options with regard to the quality of services provided:


                   Cheap                                  Fast                Good


Advisory Opinion – Silver Creek Village/Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 21, 2019      Page 2 of 6
The rule associated with this matrix is that only two of the three options are available at any one
time. Although customers may want all three, providing all three is not possible. Nevertheless,
the customer is free to choose any two, but always at the detriment of the third. To explain, if the
customer would like something both good and cheap, it will not be fast. Good and fast will not
be cheap. Cheap and fast will not be good.

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman provides its services for cheap (essentially free),
and expends every effort to make sure the services are good. However, that is often at the
sacrifice of fast. Good work takes time. Due process takes time. Our small staff and inability to
work into the night collecting overtime pay means that we cannot set other work and life
concerns aside to produce quality legal work quickly. Moreover, we consistently have a queue of
Advisory Opinions, and each must wait its turn. Good and fast is a niche reserved for private law
firms and attorneys who produce excellent work quickly as long as clients are willing to pay the
fee. Cheap and fast are the purview of the con artist.

From the moment this Advisory Opinion was requested, Silver Creek Village (“Developer”)
made clear that fast is crucial here. However, as explained above, fast is not in our normal
toolbox.1 However, our desire to help overwhelms us and thus we attempt to produce this
Advisory Opinion with record speed. Nevertheless, the very laws of physics require that in order
to do so we must sacrifice either good or cheap. No one is suggesting, or should I say offering
(or maybe tendering), any solution that would allow us to forego cheap. So our only option is to
sacrifice good.

Thus, in the interest of speed, we will cut some corners in this Advisory Opinion where
otherwise we absolutely would not.2 It is our intention to do so in ways least damaging to quality,
and especially to legal accuracy. But in the interest of fast we will, for example, cut a lengthy
exposition of the background (the parties know it and it is undisputed), a restatement of the
arguments of the parties (the parties know those too), and lengthy citations to the record or to
generally accepted and well-known legal principles (the attorneys involved here are sophisticated
land use attorneys and they should have no trouble getting the gist). Most riskily, we will not
exhaustively search and commit to memory the voluminous record. The conclusion of this
Advisory Opinion does not mandate that we do. We will instead assume the submissions of both
parties are factually accurate and complete.

Finally, we freely offer both parties the option, after receiving this fast and cheap Advisory
Opinion, to request afterward that we fill any gaps that cause this Opinion to be anything less
than good, as long as they will grant us the time to do so. Our goal is accuracy. This Office



1
  This is especially true when the parties submit piles of documents and arguments so massive that they cannot be
contained on our email server nor printed, and must be conveyed to us by dropbox or by thumb drive. This is a sign
of two things: (1) reviewing the record will take significant time, and (2) the questions presented for opinion are
complicated, and will take significant time to sort out. This further explains why fast is a difficult service for us to
provide. It does not explain, however, why a very high volume of paperwork and complication level is ALWAYS
accompanied with a request to complete the Advisory Opinion as quickly as possible.
2
  And will not in the future so don’t ask.
Advisory Opinion – Silver Creek Village/Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 21, 2019      Page 3 of 6
always accepts requests for reconsideration and corrections of fact that we may have overlooked.
The informal nature of the Advisory Opinion process demands it.3

                                                        BACKGROUND
This dispute involves interpretation of a Development Agreement. The Development Agreement
contains multiple provisions concerning allowable land uses, and dictates the appropriate uses of
the lot in question. Thus, the Development Agreement is appropriately treated as legislation.
Accordingly, the provisions of the Development Agreement will be interpreted under the rules of
ordinance interpretation. The key question in dispute here regards whether a “Reception Center”
is an allowed use in the Development Agreement on a particular lot. The dispute arises because
there are provisions in the Development Agreement that indicate that it is, and provisions to
indicate that it is not.

                                                         ANALYSIS
The County’s Community Development Director’s Decision (“Director’s Decision”) that
Reception Center is not an allowed use, and the Response of the Community Development
Director of the Appeal of an Administrative Decision (“County’s Response”) defending the
Director’s Decision, rely heavily on reasoning that can best be summed by this statement from
the County’s Response:

           In looking at the competing provisions of the Development Agreement and Code,
           it is clear that the overwhelming majority of provisions favor the interpretation
           made by the [Community Development Director].

Although this statement appears true and was no doubt provided in an admirable attempt to
marshal the evidence, it perpetuates the wrong approach. The County must rely on this argument
because it cannot deny the existence of a certain provision in the Development Agreement:
Exhibit D1. Exhibit D1 lists reception centers, recreation facilities, and bars as allowed uses in
the Civic land use category.

We have never encountered a principle of statutory construction to support the “overwhelming
majority” of the provisions theory. Instead, the rules of ordinance interpretation require that we
presume that the legislative body used each word advisedly. Selman v. Box Elder County, 2011
UT 18, ¶18. Also we construe an ordinance so that “all parts thereof [are] relevant and
meaningful.” Perrine v. Kennecott Mining Corp., 911 P.2d 1290, 1292 (Utah 1996). Further, “our
interpretation of a statute requires that each part or section be construed in connection with every
other part or section so as to produce a harmonious whole.” State in Interest of J.M.S., 2011 UT
75 ¶13. Both parties cite these critical principles, but neither adequately considers them.

The Developer demands that Exhibit D1, which lists “Reception Center” as an allowed
conditional use, be given weight and meaning. Exhibit D1 is directly referenced in the body of
the Development Agreement as a source for determining and interpreting uses. Thus, Exhibit D1
3
  None of this should imply that the submissions and attached documents were not read or considered carefully, or
that every effort was not made to ensure that the result is legally accurate.
Advisory Opinion – Silver Creek Village/Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 21, 2019      Page 4 of 6
cannot simply be ignored or disregarded. According to the principles of ordinance interpretation
cited above, the Developer is correct. Exhibit D1 must be given relevance and meaning.
Reception Center must be a conditional use in the zone.

The Director’s justification for his decision to prohibit Reception Center essentially distills down
to two points: (1) that a reception center is not similar to the example uses in the Development
Agreement, and (2) that the reception center would be a commercial use and the Development
Agreement limits uses to “buildings and facilities . . . generally for non-commercial use . . . .”
The first argument is easily dismissed. The Development Agreement lists examples “such as
schools, churches, community center, public service building, arts or other cultural facilities.” A
reception center is quite similar to the listed uses here. In fact, it is difficult to see a meaningful
distinction between a reception center and a “community center” or “cultural facilities.”
Moreover, a distinction does not arise because a reception center is a commercial use, and the
listed items here are non-commercial. All of the listed items here, including schools and
churches, can and have been run as for-profit commercial enterprises.

The crux of this matter then, is the statement limiting land uses to “buildings and facilities . . .
generally for non-commercial use . . . .” The fact that the reception center, and associated bar and
fitness facility will be run for profit as a commercial business seems to be the real basis of the
Director’s decision to deny.

This is important because the Developer is guilty of the same mistake as the County. The
Developer overlooks, or at least does not satisfactorily address, this statement that uses should be
“buildings and facilities . . . generally for non-commercial use . . . .” Likewise, this provision of
the Development Agreement must be given weight, and not disregarded. The Developer
apparently would like the reception center to be a commercial venture. However, this statement
appears to prohibit that.

It is not difficult, in line with the principles of statutory interpretation, to read these two
provisions in harmony rather than in contradiction. We conclude is that a reception center, or any
other use listed in Exhibit D1, is allowed as a conditional use as long as it is operated “generally
for non-commercial use.” That gives weight and validity to both provisions. Moreover, this
reading does not lead to an absurd result, as a reception center, a fitness facility, and perhaps
even a bar can be operated non-commercially. It may not often be practical to do so, but it is
possible.4




4
  We see no reason to change this conclusion because “Reception Center” is defined in the Development Agreement
as “[a] room or rooms in a Retail Business suitable for entertaining guests or hosting events such as weddings,
parties and meetings, esp. a lounge or dining room.” The fact that a reception center is defined as located in a retail
business does not mandate that the reception center itself be operated commercially. Nor do we reach a different
conclusion because Exhibit D1 lists other uses that must be commercial. All must be read in harmony to the extent
possible with the phrase “generally for non-commercial use.” Some of these uses, such as “Child Care” or
“Recreation or Athletic Facility, Commercial” would indeed present a greater problem than “reception center” does,
but they are not currently under examination, and we believe that reading them in harmony would lead to the same
the ultimate result.
Advisory Opinion – Silver Creek Village/Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 21, 2019      Page 5 of 6
Accordingly, a reception center that is generally5 for non-commercial use is an allowed
conditional use on the lot. If the Developer is proposing a reception center that is “generally for
non-commercial use,” the County must approve it with conditions.6

                                                        CONCLUSION
All phrases in the Development Agreement must be given meaning and read in harmony. The
fact that reception center is an allowed use on the property must be given meaning. Likewise the
statement “generally for non-commercial use” must be given meaning. Reading them in harmony
leaves us to conclude that the intent of the parties was to allow the uses in Exhibit D1, as long as
they are “generally for non-commercial use.”




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




5
  The word “generally” also merits consideration and weight. We invite the parties to consider and weigh it in their
future discussions.
6
  This conclusion, of course, raises the question regarding whether a valid distinction exists between a commercial
and non-commercial facility undertaking the exact same operation. A non-commercial reception center may attract
the same amount of cars, people, and events as a commercial reception center – the only difference being whether or
not someone made money. It’s a fascinating question, but not fascinating enough to hold up this Advisory Opinion
while researching.
Advisory Opinion – Silver Creek Village/Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 21, 2019      Page 6 of 6
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:


                      Thomas C. Fisher, County Manager
                      Summit County
                      60 North Main
                      Coalville, UT 84017


On this 25th Day of June, 2019, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
