                     Advisory Opinion #287
                                Parties: Kamas 3530 LLC; Summit County
                                          Issued: May 28, 2024

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                     Legal non-complying structure
                                      Interpretation of Ordinances

State statute allows for the continuation of noncomplying structures and gives only two
scenarios in which a County may prohibit the reconstruction of a noncomplying structure
– (1) written notice that the structure is uninhabitable and failure to repair within six months
and (2) voluntary demolition of the majority of the structure. The facts at hand do not fit
either of these scenarios, as while some portion of the structure had been voluntarily
demolished, it was not a majority as anticipated by the statute. Because the property
owner’s removal of the dilapidated porch addition did not amount to a demolishment of the
majority of the structure, the County, therefore, may not lawfully prohibit reconstruction of
the demolished addition.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor               MARGARET W. BUSSE          JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                             Executive Director          Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor



                                                  ADVISORY OPINION

         Advisory Opinion Requested by:                 Blake Kapp

         Local Government Entity:                       Summit County

         Property Owner:                                Kamas 3530 LLC

         Type of Property:                              Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 May 28, 2024

         Opinion Authored By:                           Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                        Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                         Issue

         May the County prohibit reconstruction of an addition to a legal noncomplying structure that had
         been voluntarily demolished?

                                           Summary of Advisory Opinion

         The property owner owns a cabin in Summit County. The cabin is a legal noncomplying structure
         because it was built in the 1960’s before the County adopted land use regulations. As such, the
         cabin is “grandfathered” and may remain despite not meeting current setback requirements.

         The owner tore down an enclosed porch addition which was dilapidated due to lack of maintenance
         and is now seeking a building permit to reconstruct the same. As with the rest of the cabin, the
         proposed reconstruction cannot meet current side yard or stream setbacks. In accordance with its
         ordinances, the County is requiring the Property Owner to either meet these setback requirements
         or secure a variance from the Board of Adjustment.

         State statute allows for the continuation of noncomplying structures and gives only two scenarios
         in which a County may prohibit the reconstruction of a noncomplying structure – (1) written notice
         that the structure is uninhabitable and failure to repair within six months and (2) voluntary
         demolition of the majority of the structure. The facts at hand do not fit either of these scenarios, as
         while some portion of the structure had been voluntarily demolished, it was not a majority as
         anticipated by the statute. Because the property owner’s removal of the dilapidated porch addition
         did not amount to a demolishment of the majority of the structure, the County, therefore, may not
         lawfully prohibit reconstruction of the demolished addition.
                                                 Evidence

The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:
          1. Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Blake Kapp on September 19, 2023.
          2. Response submitted by Margaret H. Olson, Summit County Attorney, dated
              October 9, 2023.
          3. Additional information submitted by Blake Kapp dated November 2, 2023.

                                                Background
Kamas 3530 LLC (Property Owner) owns property in Eastern Summit County Planning District
(County). There is a log cabin (Cabin) on the property which was apparently built in the early
1960’s before the County adopted any land use regulations. Both parties agree that because it was
built prior to the adoption of setback and other requirements, the Cabin is a legal noncomplying
structure.

The Cabin structure included an enclosed porch addition which was apparently built after
construction of the main Cabin. Both parties discuss the addition as though it was similarly built
before the County adopted land use regulations, so we will treat it as such.

In 2022 the Property Owner demolished the addition because it had suffered water and rodent
damage due to an apparent lack of maintenance by previous owners. According to the Property
Owner, the demolished addition was approximately 12’ by 30’. The remaining Cabin is 30’ by 30’
with a loft above. Therefore, the addition was less than a majority of the overall structure.
The Property Owner recently applied for a building permit to rebuild the torn-down addition. The
current County Code (Code) requires that structures be at least 12 feet from any property line and
100 feet from the high-water mark of any perennial stream. The Cabin does not meet current Code
as it is approximately 15 feet from Beaver Creek and is closer than 12 feet from the side property
line.
The County maintains that because the proposed addition would not meet current side yard or
stream setbacks, the building permit for cannot be issued without a first securing a variance from
the County’s Board of Adjustment.
The Property Owner maintains that the entire structure is a legal noncomplying structure, and
therefore, the addition is “grandfathered” and may be rebuilt without securing a variance.
The Property Owner has requested this Advisory Opinion to answer whether the addition is
“grandfathered” as part of a legally noncomplying structure which may be rebuilt without further
paperwork.
                                                 Analysis

The heart of this dispute is whether the proposed addition lost its “grandfathered” protections when
it was voluntarily demolished.

According to state statute, the Cabin is a legal noncomplying structure, as was the addition before
it was torn down. Utah Code Section 17-27a-103(45) defines “noncomplying structure” as a

Advisory Opinion – Kamas 3530 / Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 28, 2024 Page 2 of 4
structure that: (a) legally existed before the structure’s current land use designation; and (b)
because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does not conform to the setback,
height restrictions, or other regulations, excluding those regulations that govern the use of land.”

Now that we’ve established that the Cabin is a legal noncomplying structure, we next look to state
law restricting regulation of such “grandfathered” buildings. These regulations are found in Utah
Code Section 17-27a-510, which provides in part that “Except as provided in this section, a
nonconforming use or a noncomplying structure may be continued by the present or a future
property owner.” Utah Code § 17-27a-510(1)(a). In other words, once established, a noncomplying
structure may remain except for those circumstances addressed in the statute.

The statute next specifies two scenarios whereby the County may prohibit reconstruction. The first
scenario is if the structure is rendered uninhabitable and not repaired after receiving written notice
from the County. Utah Code Section 17-27a-510(3)(b) reads “A county may prohibit the
reconstruction or restoration of a noncomplying structure or terminate the nonconforming use of a
structure if: (i) the structure is allowed to deteriorate to a condition that the structure is rendered
uninhabitable and is not repaired or restored within six months after the day on which written
notice is served to the property owner that the structure is uninhabitable and that the noncomplying
structure or nonconforming use will be lost if the structure is not repaired or restored within six
months.” This section does not apply given the facts because the County has not issued a letter to
the Property Owner indicating that any portion of the Cabin was uninhabitable.

And the second scenario the statute addresses is where the property owner voluntarily demolishes
a majority of the noncomplying structure. Utah Code Section 17-27a-510(3)(b) reads “A county
may prohibit the reconstruction or restoration of a noncomplying structure or terminate the
nonconforming use of a structure if: . . . (ii) the property owner has voluntarily demolished a
majority of the noncomplying structure or the building that houses the nonconforming use.”
According to the Property Owner, the torn-down addition was not the majority of the
noncomplying structure. Again, this portion of the statute does not apply given the facts.

The state statute gives only these two scenarios – (1) written notice that the structure is
uninhabitable and failure to repair within six months and (2) voluntary demolition of the majority
of the structure – for a County to prohibit reconstruction. Outside these two scenarios,
“grandfathering” protects reconstruction of the structure.

The Utah Supreme Court has given us instructions on how to interpret state statutes.

           It is well settled that when faced with a question of statutory interpretation, “our
           primary goal is to evince the true intent and purpose of the Legislature.” “The best
           evidence of the legislature's intent is 'the plain language of the statute itself.” “Thus,
           “[w]hen interpreting a statute, we assume, absent a contrary indication, that the
           legislature used each term advisedly according to its ordinary and usually accepted
           meaning.” Additionally, we “presume [] that the expression of one [term] should
           be interpreted as the exclusion of another.” We therefore seek to give effect to
           omissions in statutory language by presuming all omissions to be purposeful.

Marion Energy, Inc. v. KFJ Ranch P'ship, 2011 UT 50, ¶ 14 (cleaned up).

Advisory Opinion – Kamas 3530 / Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 28, 2024 Page 3 of 4
Accordingly, because the statute includes two scenarios whereby reconstruction may be prohibited,
we must interpret this as an exclusion of scenarios not mentioned.

To summarize, the state statute gives only these two scenarios – (1) written notice that the structure
is uninhabitable and failure to repair within six months and (2) voluntary demolition of the majority
of the structure – for a County to prohibit reconstruction. The County, therefore, may not lawfully
prohibit reconstruction with other scenarios, including where a minority portion of the structure
was demolished.

The County must, therefore, allow the Property Owner to reconstruct the addition.

We note that any County Code prohibiting reconstruction of a legal noncomplying structure
outside the two scenarios mentioned in state statute would be unenforceable. According to Utah
Code Section 17-27a-104(2), “a county may not impose a requirement, regulation, condition, or
standard that conflicts with a provision of this chapter, other state law, or federal law.”

We also note that state law gives the County greater leeway to regulate nonconforming uses. Utah
Code § 17-27a-510(2) reads: “the legislative body may provide for (a) the establishment,
restoration, reconstruction, extension, alteration, expansion, or substitution of nonconforming uses
upon the terms and conditions set forth in the land use ordinance; . . .” and “the termination of a
nonconforming use due to its abandonment.” (emphasis added). However, the Cabin and the
addition are legal noncomplying structures rather than nonconforming uses, so these sections do
not apply.

                                                Conclusion

State statute gives only these two scenarios – (1) written notice that the structure is uninhabitable
and failure to repair within six months and (2) voluntary demolition of the majority of the structure
– for a County to prohibit reconstruction of a legal noncomplying structure. The facts at hand do
not fit these scenarios. The County, therefore, may not lawfully prohibit reconstruction of the
demolished addition.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Kamas 3530 / Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 28, 2024 Page 4 of 4
NOTE:
This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not constitute
legal advice and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of Utah
or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a summary
review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter and may or may not reflect the
opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and circumstances are
different or where the relevant law may have changed.
While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.
An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.
Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in § 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are also
designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
