                       Advisory Opinion 236
                                   Parties: Town of Leeds / Lynn Potter
                                           Issued: February 11, 2021

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                Compliance with Land Use Ordinances

                                       Interpretation of Ordinances

                                Entitlement to Approval (Vested Rights)

                                Proceeding with Reasonable Diligence

The Town’s Hillside Protection Overlay Zone contains an exception to its applicability for
“developments or subdivisions” approved before 1999. The Town’s official minutes from that time
period are seemingly deficient as they do not reflect all official actions taken by the Town. Despite
record of the landowner seeking subdivision approval from the Town prior to 1999, there was no
record in Town meeting minutes of a final approval given by the Town Council. The Town reviewed
the record and other evidence provided by the landowner and concluded that no qualifying
subdivision occurred and the Hillside Overlay therefore applied.

A land use authority must support any of its factual or discretionary decisions with substantial
evidence in the record. Where the applicability of a regulation depends on a determination that a
factual event or condition exists, and the available evidence does not conclusively establish the
same, an authority’s decision to apply—or not apply—the regulation is not arbitrary and capricious
so long as the authority provides reasons for its decision and a reasonable mind could reach the
same conclusion with the evidence available. While there may be sufficient circumstantial
evidence to conclude that subdivision did occur, The Town’s basing its decision to apply the
overlay zone on the record’s absence of final subdivision approval similarly satisfies the
substantial evidence standard.

                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.


                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                       1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                            www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                propertyrights@utah.gov
                             State of Utah
                             Department of Commerce
   SPENCER J. COX            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
      Governor
                             MARGARET W. BUSSE        JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON          Executive Director        Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION


         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                Town of Leeds

         Local Government Entity:                      Town of Leeds

         Applicant for Land Use Approval:              Lynn Potter

         Type of Property:                             Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                February 11, 2021

         Opinion Authored By:                          Richard B. Plehn, Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       ISSUE

         Is a landowner’s property subject to the Town’s Hillside Protection Overlay Zone?

                                          SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

         The Hillside Protection Overlay Zone applies to all base zoning districts within the Town of Leeds
         and restricts certain development activity based on geographic conditions. The Overlay contains
         an exception to its applicability for “developments or subdivisions” approved before 1999. The
         exception applies to all decisions by the Town Council approving the division of property for
         residential development, including dividing a single developable lot from a larger parcel.

         In applying land use regulations to applications for development, a land use authority must support
         any of its factual or discretionary decisions with substantial evidence in the record. Where the
         applicability of a regulation depends on a determination that a factual event or condition exists,
         and the available evidence in the record is not conclusive to establish the same, an authority’s
         decision to apply—or not apply—the regulation is not arbitrary and capricious so long as the
         authority provides reasons for its decision and a reasonable mind could reach the same conclusion
         with the evidence available.
The Town has reviewed available Town records and evidence provided by the landowner to
determine whether the property was an approved development or subdivision eligible for the
Hillside Overlay exception. The Town has concluded that the Hillside Overlay applies because
there is no record of a final subdivision approval given by the Town Council as the designated
body with authority to grant such approvals, and the exception therefore does not apply.

While the Town’s records are seemingly deficient, the available evidence demonstrates that a sale
of a break-off parcel occurred following Town proceedings seeking approval of that parcel as a
developable lot for residential purposes, and strongly suggests that the Town Council gave
conditional approval of the lot at the time it rezoned the proposed parcel to residential zoning.
However, because the Town imposed requirements that needed to be met before it would grant
final approval, and there is no explicit record of a subsequent Town Council decision granting the
final approval thereafter, a reasonable mind could reach the same conclusion as the Town that the
subdivision was not finally approved. Therefore, a land use decision that the Hillside Ordinance
applies to the landowner’s property would be upheld by a court under the applicable substantial
evidence standard.

                                              REVIEW

A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Title 13, Chapter 43, Section
205 of the Utah Code. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty
to exhaust administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a
land use application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue.
It is hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the
courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Mayor Wayne Peterson, Town of Leeds, on
April 20, 2020. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Brent Bateman, attorney for
Lynn Potter, 3301 North Thanksgiving Way, Suite 400, on June 26, 2020.

                                             EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

      1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Mayor Wayne Peterson, Town of Leeds,
         received on April 20, 2020.
      2. Response to Advisory Opinion Request, submitted by Brent Bateman, attorney for Lynn
         Potter, dated May 19, 2020.
      3. Town Reply to Mr. Potter’s Response to Request for Advisory Opinion, submitted by H.
         Craig Hall, attorney for Town of Leeds, dated June 12, 2020.
      4. Potter Response to June 12, 2020 letter from Town of Leeds, submitted by Brent Bateman,
         dated July 10, 2020.

Advisory Opinion – Town of Leeds / Potter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2021 Page 2 of 14
      5. Town Reply to Mr. Potter’s July 10, 2020 Response, submitted by H. Craig Hall, dated
         August 6, 2020.
      6. Response to Town’s August 6, 2020 letter, submitted by Lynn Potter, dated August 11,
         2020.

                                                  BACKGROUND

Lynn Potter and Dianna Powell acquired an 11.94-acre parcel of undeveloped land (“Potter
property”)1 within the Town of Leeds in 2017, and recently approached the Town with plans to
develop. The Town has determined that the Potter property is subject to the Town’s Hillside
Protection Overlay Zone, and that aspects of the proposed development would violate that
ordinance. Mr. Potter believes the property is not subject to the Hillside overlay because of a stated
exception in the applicability of the Hillside overlay to developments and subdivisions approved
prior to 1999.

The Potter property was once part of a larger tract of undeveloped land owned by Alberta Pace/Lee
(“Alberta”). There are a number of incidents in Town records between 1996-1997 that reflect
proceedings before the Town Planning Commission and Town Council regarding Alberta’s
property, inclusive of the portion now comprising the Potter property. Mr. Potter believes that the
record evidences Town approval of his parcel for development purposes sufficient to qualify for
the Hillside overlay exception; the Town disagrees. About the only thing the two parties do agree
on regarding the record is that it leaves us wanting in the present matter, and both parties have tried
to fill in the gaps to reach their respective conclusions.

                  Undisputed Material Facts

From the available record, the relevant undisputed material facts can be distilled and summarized
as follows:

The land now comprising Mr. Potter’s parcel was part of a larger remainder following Alberta’s 3-
lot minor subdivision in June 1996. On February 5, 1997, Alberta presented a proposal to the
planning commission, noted as follows:

            Alberta presented a proposal for selling 12 acres of her land for a couple wishing
            to build only 1 or 2 dwellings. There was a general agreement but details fo [sic] 2
            dwellings may require additional discussion. Not with regard to acceptability, but
            rather as to how to make it meet the proposed zoning requirements.

Shortly thereafter, this 12-acre portion of Alberta’s property was rezoned residential (R-R-2) by
the Town Council at the February 26, 1997 Town Council Meeting. In that same meeting, the Town
Council also amended its minor subdivision ordinance from requiring that minor subdivision lots
front on an existing, dedicated road, to requiring that lots front on an existing, dedicated, and


1
 We refer to the property as the “Potter property” because the City’s submittals refer to the property as “Mr. Potter’s
parcel”, and the responding documents presented to this Office are provided by legal counsel stating to represent Lynn
Potter, specifically.

Advisory Opinion – Town of Leeds / Potter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2021 Page 3 of 14
improved road. Finally, later in the same meeting, there was further discussion on “Complications
of Alberta Lee Subdivision.” This entry, in its entirety, notes as follows:

            Some of the questions Alberta had were whether a guest house was permissible on
            5 acres in a R-R-2 Zone? A quit-claim deed was also to be prepared for a portion of
            Paul Felt’s property that would be deeded to the Town.

At the March 5, 1997 Planning Commission Meeting, there was discussion on “Alberta Lee: Plans
for Property.” The entry notes as follows:

            Alberta has received conditional approval to split her lot located at approximately
            600 North Main Street. She need [sic] to obtain a Quit-Claim Deed from Paul Felt
            before the final approval is given. The Quit-Claim Deed is for an access road to the
            12 acres that will be sold. The Deed will be to the Town of Leeds for the access
            road.

The Town Council noted on March 12, 1997 that the quit-claim deed for the property Paul Felt
was deeding to the Town was being written, but no minute entries regarding Alberta or the property
exist after this point.

The quit-claim deed from Paul Felt dedicating property for a road was thereafter recorded on April
22, 1997, and a March 1997 survey depicting the road dedication and the creation of a 11.942
parcel from Alberta’s remainder property was recorded on May 12, 1997. That parcel is depicted
as a distinct parcel under new ownership in the January 1998 County Ownership Map, and is the
parcel now owned by Mr. Potter.

                  Diverging Conclusions

From the above-stated facts, both parties fill in whatever information each feels is missing and
what conclusions should be drawn therefrom.

            Town’s Narrative – Prerequisite Approvals for Abandoned Subdivision Efforts

The Town finds that Mr. Potter’s parcel, as it now exists, was not created at the time of the June
1996 subdivision, but simply comprised part of the property left over from Alberta’s minor
subdivision. As to all of the subsequent proceedings involving Alberta’s property, due to the lack
of any submitted documents in Town records, the Town generally casts doubts on any and all
conclusions as to whether the 12 acres discussed in subsequent entries is the same tract now owned
by Mr. Potter or some other portion of Alberta’s property.

However, in entertaining Mr. Potter’s arguments, the Town concludes that even if the 12 acres
discussed is the parcel now owned by Mr. Potter, no approval by the Town Council—as the Town’s
land use authority—had been given. Rather, the Town believes that approval of a parcel, as well
as the zone change and quit-claim deed, were all prerequisites to any minor subdivision proposal.
The Town believes that to make a finding that a given parcel is a qualifying subdivision under the


Advisory Opinion – Town of Leeds / Potter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2021 Page 4 of 14
Hillside exception would require evidence of a subsequent proposal to further divide an approved
lot into small lots—at least two or more.

The Town further believes that the “conditional approval” acknowledged by the planning
commission was, if anything, given by the planning commission, likely at the February 5, 1997
meeting, to approve the 12-acre parcel, but was not an approval by the Town as a minor
subdivision. The Town also believes that because the minor subdivision ordinance was amended
February 26, 1997 to require lots to front on an existing “improved” road, Alberta’s property would
not have qualified for a minor subdivision until the lots fronted on an existing and improved road.

This, according to the Town, explains why neither the Planning Commission or the Town Council
issued any final approval after the quit-claim deed was provided to the Town. In other words,
Alberta secured only the prerequisite approvals needed in order to later apply for a minor
subdivision. However, Alberta instead sold her lot to the Spears, and it remained undeveloped.

            Mr. Potter’s Narrative – Approving the Parcel as a Developable Lot under Minor
            Subdivision Ordinance

Mr. Potter maintains that Alberta’s February 5, 1997 proposal to sell a 12-acre parcel to “a couple
wishing to build only 1 or 2 dwellings” refers to the parcel he now owns, and was a proposal for a
single-lot subdivision to break off the Potter parcel from the larger remainder from the June 1996
minor subdivision. Mr. Potter notes that there “was a general agreement” regarding the proposal,
and that the additional discussion needed was “[n]ot with regard to acceptability”, but rather how
to meet zoning requirements.

Because this proposal, together with approval of Alberta’s rezone petition, occurred prior to the
Town amending the subdivision ordinance, Mr. Potter asserts that Alberta’s proposal vested under
the prior minor subdivision ordinance, and accordingly that the record evidences that the Town did
not intend to subject the proposal to the amended ordinance to require an existing, improved street.
Rather, Mr. Potter argues that the “conditional approval” noted in the March 5, 1997 planning
commission minutes, was, in fact, conditional approval for the lot under the minor subdivision
ordinance, given by the Town council “sometime prior” to that meeting.

The only stated condition for approval—namely, that Paul Felt dedicate a portion of his property
for an access road—occurred on April 22, 1997. Mr. Potter believes that because the proposal had
vested under the prior minor subdivision ordinance only requiring an existing, dedicated road, and
because the stated condition was fulfilled, the lot was therefore automatically approved.2 This, Mr.
Potter contends, explains why the survey was thereafter recorded and no further proceedings were
held before the Planning Commission or Town Council—the lot was already approved as a minor
subdivision for purposes of selling the property.




2
 Mr. Potter alternatively argues that even if the approval was not automatic, fulfillment of the stated condition secures
vested rights, which Mr. Potter argues continue to remain valid to the present time. See infra, discussion at III(C).

Advisory Opinion – Town of Leeds / Potter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2021 Page 5 of 14
            Adequacy of Town Records

In order to reach their respective conclusions, each party fills in what they allege to be missing
from the Town’s records. This only shows that the record may not be entirely reliable. This is a
critical point to Mr. Potter’s contentions. For example, Mr. Potter takes the planning commission’s
reference that Alberta had “received conditional approval” to illustrate that an approval had been
given by the Town Council previously, and is simply omitted from the official minutes.

However, in the Town’s attempt to defend the integrity of the record and rebut the allegation that
official actions of the Town have been omitted, the Town does little to improve the situation.
Particularly, the Town asserts that the “conditional approval” referenced must have come from the
planning commission, and likely at the February 5, 1997 meeting. Such approval action is
admittedly absent from the February 5, 1997 minutes.

There are additional examples in the record of omitted actions by the planning commission and
Town Council that are unrebutted. In light of this, it is reasonably established that not all official
actions of the Town have been reflected in recorded minutes.

                                                   ANALYSIS

      I.          Standard of Review

Under Utah’s Land Use Development and Management Act (“LUDMA”), the local government’s
land use authority reviews requests for development and applies the plain language of its
regulations to either approve or deny the request, supporting any factual or discretionary decisions
with substantial evidence in the record.

This matter presents both issues of ordinance interpretation and factual dispute. Because the Town
has asked us to opine on an issue involving disputed facts, we will treat this issue the same as a
court would in reviewing a request for summary judgment, and view the facts and all reasonable
inferences drawn therefrom in the light most favorable to the responding party, 3 which in this case,
would be Mr. Potter.

Under LUDMA, a land use authority’s decision is presumed to be valid, and will only be
overturned if the decision is arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.4 A decision is arbitrary or capricious
if it is not, as indicated previously, supported by substantial evidence in the record.5 A decision is
illegal if it based on an incorrect interpretation of a land use regulation or violates a law, statute,
or ordinance in effect at the time the decision was made.6

This opinion therefore addresses interpretive issues of the meaning of the Hillside ordinance
exception, and also reviews whether substantial evidence supports the Town’s factual conclusion


3
  See, e.g., Bad Ass Coffee Co. of Haw. Inc. v. Royal Aloha Int'l LLC, 2020 UT App 122, 473 P.3d 624.
4
  UTAH CODE § 10-9a-801(3)(b).
5
  UTAH CODE § 10-9a-801(3)(c).
6
  Id; see also Fox v. Park City, 2008 UT 85, ¶11.

Advisory Opinion – Town of Leeds / Potter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2021 Page 6 of 14
that Mr. Potter’s property was not subdivided prior to 1999, and that the exception therefore does
not apply to the Potter property.

      II.         Interpreting the Scope of the Hillside Protection Overlay Zone’s Exception

The Town of Leeds Land Use Ordinance (“Ordinance”) establishes the Hillside Protection Overlay
Zone, which applies to all base zoning districts within the Town and regulates the development of
properties on terrain of certain slope and other characteristics. The overlay also contains an explicit
exception to its applicability, which reads:

            20.10. DEVELOPMENTS OF RECORD.
            The requirements of this Chapter shall not apply to developments or subdivisions
            that were approved prior to January 1, 1999.7

The relevant interpretive issue for reviewing the applicability of the above to Mr. Potter’s land use
application is: What constitutes “[approved] developments or subdivisions” under the Hillside
overlay exception? More specifically, both parties appear to agree that the relevant issue is whether
the property was approved or entitled to approval under the Town’s provisions for a “minor
subdivision.”8

The Town argues that the meaning of “subdivision” is limited to a division of land creating two or
more parcels, and that the Potter property—even if a recognized parcel—was never approved for
subdivision. Mr. Potter argues, on the other hand, that a decision to formally recognize his parcel
as a developable lot would constitute a “single-lot subdivision” sufficient for the Hillside overlay
exception to apply.

            A. Defined Land Terms

The Town’s Land Use Ordinance defines “Subdivision” as follows:

            “includes the division of land whether by deed, metes, and bounds description,
            devise and testacy, lease, map, plat, or other recorded instrument; and divisions of
            land for all residential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used
            for commercial, agricultural, and industrial purposes.”9




7
  TOWN OF LEEDS, UTAH, LAND USE ORDINANCE 2008-04, Chapter 20.10, amended by ORDINANCE 2015-02 (May 13,
2015).
8
  A minor subdivision allows for a streamlined subdivision approval for five lots or less under qualifying
circumstances. While the Town concedes that the Hillside exception is applicable to either approved subdivisions or
“developments”, the parties did not brief the meaning or the applicability of the term “developments”; therefore, this
opinion will assume the parties agree that this portion of the exception does not apply and focus on the parties’
arguments as to whether approved “subdivisions” applies to the property in question.
9
  TOWN OF LEEDS, UTAH, ORDINANCE #2-95, Chapter 1, Section 3(h) (Aug 23, 1995).

Advisory Opinion – Town of Leeds / Potter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2021 Page 7 of 14
The Ordinance defines “Lot” to mean any parcel of land “occupied or to be occupied” by buildings,
together with “such yards, spaces, lot width and lot area as are required by this Ordinance and
having frontage upon a street.10

Finally, “Remainder” is defined as “[t]hat portion of an existing parcel which is not included as
part of the proposed subdivision. The remainder is not considered as part of the subdivision but
must be shown on the required maps as part of the area surrounding subdivision development.”11
The Ordinance uses the term “Acreage” to refer to any parcel of land of at least one acre that has
not been previously subdivided, or else declared to be acreage as a result of a subdivision.12

In summary, acreage and vacant parcels of land become buildable “lots” that are suitable for
development through the process of subdivision.

            B. Meaning of “Subdivisions” in Hillside Overlay Exception

When interpreting the meaning of ordinances, the standard rules of statutory construction apply.13
Looking to the plain language of the ordinance is considered the first step of interpretation.14 The
primary goal is “to give effect to the legislative intent, as evidenced by the plain language, in light
of the purpose the statute was meant to achieve.”15 Because zoning ordinances are “in derogation
of a property owner's common-law right to unrestricted use of his or her property, provisions
therein restricting property uses should be strictly construed, and provisions permitting property
uses should be liberally construed in favor of the property owner.”16

In 1996, the Town’s Ordinance 2-95 provided the regulatory process to approve “subdivisions”,
which applies to “all divisions of land in which two or more parcels are created.”17 In addition, a
separate ordinance, Ordinance 4-5, also provided for a “Minor Subdivision of Land.”18 This
ordinance has its own approval criteria separate from the process for approving conventional
subdivisions, and applies where “[t]he division of a Parcel of Land will not exceed more than 5
lots,” among other conditions.19 Town minutes reflect usage of the term “new subdivision” as a
way to distinguish a conventional subdivision from a minor subdivision.

While Ordinance 2-95 states that the term “subdivisions” (noun) referenced in its approval process
applies to approved divisions of land where “two or more parcels are created,”20 the Ordinance’s

10
   TOWN OF LEEDS, UTAH, LAND USE ORDINANCE 2008-04, Ch 1 General Provisions, Amended by Ordinance 2009-
18A, 1.6 (“Lot. A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a main building, or group of buildings (main and
accessory), together with such yards, open spaces, lot width and lot area as are required by this Ordinance and having
frontage upon a street”).
11
   Id.
12
   Id. (“Acreage. Any parcel of land, of one (1) or more acres and those areas where a legal subdivision has not been
made previously, or where a legal subdivision has declared the parcel as acreage”).
13
   Brendle v. City of Draper, 937 P.2d 1044, 1047 (Utah Ct. App. 1997).
14
   Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98, ¶ 30, 104 P.3d 1208.
15
   Foutz v. South Jordan, 2004 UT 75, ¶ 11, 100 P.3d 1171.
16
   Patterson v. Utah County Bd. of Adjustment, 893 P.2d 602, 606 (Utah Ct. App. 1995).
17
   Ord. #2-95, Chapter 1, Section 2.
18
   TOWN OF LEEDS, UTAH, ORDINANCE #4-95, Town of Leeds Minor Subdivision of Land (August 23, 1995).
19
   Id.
20
   Ord. #2-95, Chapter 1, Section 2.

Advisory Opinion – Town of Leeds / Potter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2021 Page 8 of 14
overarching definition of “subdivision” (verb) generally anticipates any “division” of land by
written instrument for residential or nonresidential uses.21 Additionally, because the concurrent
minor subdivision ordinance is not plainly restricted to the creation of two or more parcels, but
instead applies where the “division of a Parcel of Land will not exceed more than 5 lots,”22 a single-
lot subdivision—as creating one new lot from a larger parcel—does not appear to be an
impermissible process that eludes regulatory oversight by the Town.23

The “subdivision” subject of the Hillside overlay exception in the Town’s code is therefore any
division of land approved by the Town’s land use authority under either the conventional
subdivision ordinance or the minor subdivision ordinance, including single-lot subdivisions
divided from a larger parcel, as applicable.

      III.        Application to Mr. Potter’s Development Request

Upon a correct interpretation of the Town’s ordinances, as detailed above, the relevant issues and
disputed facts narrow in this matter. In particular, the Town had partly concluded that a recognition
of the 11.942-acre parcel as a lot could not amount to a “subdivision”, and that some additional
approval would need to be shown, in that the Town would have needed to approve the further
division of the 11.942-acre parcel itself into smaller lots in order to constitute a subdivision, which
undisputedly did not occur.

However, as detailed above, because “[approved] developments or subdivisions” is not limited to
subdivisions creating two or more lots, but instead also includes single-lot subdivisions divided
from a larger parcel, the Town’s conclusion involves an incorrect interpretation of its ordinance.

The remaining issue, therefore, is to review the evidence in the record to evaluate the Town’s
conclusion that no final approval—even for a single-lot subdivision as a minor subdivision—had
actually been given by the Town Council.

      A. Minor Subdivision Requirements

The Town’s subdivision ordinance provides that the Planning Commission is “designated as the
Advisory Agency with respect to subdivisions and shall have all the powers and duties with respect
to the preliminary maps thereof, and the procedure relating thereto.”24 Accordingly, the Planning
Commission approves preliminary and final plats, or may even “waive any of the . . . preliminary
or tentative map content requirements if [determined] that the type of subdivision does not justify
compliance with these requirements,”25 and then submit the approved plat to the Town Council for
final approval.26 Additionally, “the Leeds Town Board may vary the requirements of this

21
   Id., Section 3.
22
   Ord. #4-95, Description, 1.
23
   All this to say that it does not appear that the Town intended to either prohibit or abstain from regulating single-lot
subdivisions, specifically. Because a single-lot subdivision is still a division of land for offer, sale, lease, or
development, it appears to be the legislative intent of the Town’s ordinances is to regulate that division the same as
any other.
24
   Ord. #2-95, Ch 1, Section 2.
25
   Id., Ch 2, Section 3(n).
26
   Id., Ch 1, Section 4(5).

Advisory Opinion – Town of Leeds / Potter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2021 Page 9 of 14
Ordinance after receiving recommendations of the Planning Commission, provided that such
variations will not substantially impair the intent of this Ordinance.”27

As a minor subdivision, Alberta’s proposal was governed by Ordinance 4-95,28 which states that
“[w]hen the following conditions exist the subdivision of a Parcel of Land within the Town of
Leeds may be designated a Minor Subdivision.”29 In order to get approved as a Minor Subdivision,
a Plat Map consisting of a metes and bounds description is “submitted to the Planning
Commission.” Consistent with the Planning Commission’s powers and duties with respect to
preliminary and final plats, it would appear that the Planning Commission makes the determination
that the proposal qualifies for a minor subdivision, and recommends the proposal to the Town
Council with the appropriate platting requirements.30 Ordinance 4-95 makes clear that “this
method of subdivision by Metes and Bounds must be approved by the Council of the Town of
Leeds.”31

Here, the record merely reflects that the planning commission noted, on March 5, 1997, that
“Alberta has received conditional approval to split her lot,” but that a quit-claim deed “for an
access road to the 12 acres that will be sold” was needed “before the final approval is given.”
Based on this entry, the parties disagree whether a Town Council approval had been given.

Mr. Potter argues that the “conditional approval” must have come from the Town Council
sometime prior, and is omitted from Town records. Mr. Potter further argues that as a conditional
approval, the approval was satisfied upon the subsequent fulfillment of the condition, without need
for any further proceedings.



27
   Id., Ch 1, Section 5.
28
   The parties disagreed whether Ordinance 4-95, or the amended Ordinance 2-97, enacted February 26, 1997, applied
to Alberta’s proposal under Utah’s vesting laws. See Utah Code § 10-9a-509(1)(a). For purposes of this opinion, and
drawing all reasonable inferences drawn from the record in favor of Mr. Potter as the party responding to this advisory
opinion request, it is reasonable that the Planning Commission’s February 5, 1997 review of Alberta’s proposal
evidences her complete application for lot approval prior to enactment of Ordinance 2-97 on February 26, 1997.
Additionally, the record does not support that the Town preempted Alberta’s complete application by first formally
initiating any proceedings for the ordinance amendment, as there is no record of prior planning commission review of
the amendment, and official notice of the Town Council’s Public Hearing for Ordinance 2-97 was dated February 6,
1997, the day following the planning commission’s review of Alberta’s proposal. Finally, as there is subsequent
reference to a “conditional approval” for an unimproved road for access despite Ordinance 2-97’s requiring an
existing, improved road, it appears that the Town reviewed the proposal under Ordinance 4-95 and not Ordinance 2-
97.
29
   Ord. #4-95.
30
    Minor subdivision, of themselves, enjoy a simplified “metes and bounds” plat map requirement. However,
Ordinance 2-95 further provides that a minor subdivision “may be exempted from the plat map process, and sold by
metes and bounds, without the need for recording the plat,” under some additional requirements. Ordinance 2-95, Ch
2, Section 1(g). One of those additional conditions is if the proposed lots all front on “fully improved public street[s].”
Id. (emphasis added). In its submittals, the Town appears to have erroneously conflated these recording exemption
requirements as the qualifications for minor subdivision approval itself, concluding that because Ordinance 2-95
specifically mentioned improved streets, they must have always been required for minor subdivision approval,
regardless of the later addition of the “improved” standard to the minor subdivision ordinance (Ordinance 2-97),
specifically. This is not supported by the plain language of Ord 2-95 that these additional conditions allowed an
exemption to recording requirements, which otherwise would apply to minor subdivisions approved under Ord 4-95.
31
   Ord. #4-95.

Advisory Opinion – Town of Leeds / Potter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2021 Page 10 of 14
The Town, on the other hand, believes that the “conditional approval” must have been given by
the planning commission—not the Town Council—and that the note “before the final approval is
given” references that the proposal would still need to come back before the Town Council for the
necessary final approval action following fulfillment of the condition.

Under either party’s contention, the Town’s official minutes are either missing record of a prior
Town Council approval decision, or else a prior Planning Commission approval decision,
respectively.

Our reading of the record is that the conditional approval of the proposed 12-acre parcel was likely
given by the Town Council during the February 26, 1997, meeting, at the same time it approved a
rezone for that very parcel. As noted in the minute entry discussion of “Complications of Alberta
Lee Subdivision,” the Town Council first notes that “[a] quit-claim deed was also to be prepared
for a portion of Paul Felt’s property that would be deeded to the Town.” The very next entry
following this discussion was the March 5, 1997 planning commission where it is noted that
Alberta “has received conditional approval,” subject to the sole condition that a quit-claim deed
be deeded for an access road, just as discussed by the Town Council in the previous meeting.

However, because the planning commission notes that the condition must be met “before the final
approval is given,” it can be reasonably inferred that a subsequent, final approval was still needed
from the Town Council. To that point, the record does, in fact, reflect that the subdivision proposal
was subsequently discussed at the March 12, 1997 Town Council meeting, though the official
minutes only reflect that the Mayor informed the Council “that a quit-claim deed is being written
for the portion of property that Paul Felt is quit-claiming to the Town. The location of the property
is approximately 650 North Main Street.”

Considering that the record suggests that the “conditional approval” may have been an
undocumented decision of the Town Council at the February 26, 1997 meeting, it could likewise
be reasonable to infer that the subsequent recording of the quit-claim deed and recording of the
metes and bounds survey map with the County supports a similar contention that the Town Council
gave its final approval at the March 12, 1997 meeting, wherein the Town Council discussed that
the stated condition was being fulfilled.

Ultimately, both an initial conditional approval by the Town Council, as well as a subsequent final
approval by the same body, are simply not reflected in the available record. The Town, however,
must nevertheless decide on whether it will apply the Hillside Overlay exception to the current
land use application with what information is available.

      B. Arbitrary and Capricious

We now turn to whether the Town’s determination that the Hillside zone applies to Mr. Potter’s
property is proper under Utah law. LUDMA provides that a land use authority shall substantively
review a land use application under applicable land use regulations and shall approve or deny the
application.32 Upon review, a land use authority’s decision is presumed to be valid, and will only

32
     UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1).

Advisory Opinion – Town of Leeds / Potter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2021 Page 11 of 14
be overturned if the decision is arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.33 A decision is illegal if it violates
a law, statute, or ordinance in effect at the time the decision was made.34 A decision is arbitrary or
capricious only if it is not supported by substantial evidence found in the record.35

As discussed, the Town’s decision not to apply the Hillside Overlay exception to Mr. Potter’s
development request was partly based on incorrectly interpreting its ordinances to mean that a
single-lot subdivision did not amount to an approved “subdivision” for purposes of the exception.
The Town’s decision is illegal to the extent that it relies on an incorrect interpretation of the law.

However, the Town’s decision not to apply the exception is additionally based on a conclusion
that, even accepting the eligibility of an approval of a single-lot subdivision, it has not been shown
that such approval had occurred. The Town’s decision on this basis will be upheld so long as it is
supported by substantial evidence found in the record.

“Substantial evidence is that quantum and quality of relevant evidence that is adequate to convince
a reasonable mind to support a conclusion.”36 In determining whether substantial evidence
supports the Town’s decision, we “consider all the evidence in the record, both favorable and
contrary, and determine whether a reasonable mind could reach the same conclusion as the
[Town].”37

Viewing reasonable inferences in the factual record in favor of Mr. Potter, it can be reasonably
inferred that the 11.942-acre parcel owned by Mr. Potter constitutes the same parcel proposed by
Alberta for lot approval as a single-lot subdivision for purposes of a sale, as reflected in the Town’s
official minute entries beginning with the February 5, 1997 planning commission meeting, and
subsequently discussed on February 26, 1997, March 5, 1997, and March 12, 1997 meetings.

Mr. Potter has produced evidence that Alberta sold the property constituting the Potter parcel
following these Town proceedings, including the Town Council’s approving a rezone of this break-
off parcel, and discussion in later Town Council meetings that the previously stated condition for
approval was being fulfilled. This may lead one to infer that the sale occurred pursuant to
subdivision approval, and is circumstantial evidence that the Town’s approval may have actually
been given. However, there is also evidence, or, more precisely, a lack of evidence, that the Town
never took formal action to give the required final approval for a subdivision of the property. It is
therefore also plausible that the sale occurred based on the assumed blessing of the Town for
having met the previously stated condition for approval, but without having actually obtained the
last step of formal, final approval by the Town Council.

The Town Council’s decision to approve the subdivision—not that the land was actually
subdivided and sold—is what needs to be established in order for the Hillside overlay exception
to unquestionably apply. Ultimately, there is no explicit approval action by the Town Council,
specifically, reflected in the record respective to the proposal.

33
   UTAH CODE § 10-9a-801(3)(b).
34
   Fox v. Park City, 2008 UT 85, ¶11.
35
   UTAH CODE § 10-9a-801(3)(c).
36
   Caster v. West Valley City, 2001 UT App 212, ¶ 4, 29 P.3d 22 20080472-CA 10 (internal quotation marks omitted).
37
   M & S Cox Invs., LLC v. Provo City Corp., 2007 UT App 315, ¶ 36, 169 P.3d 789.

Advisory Opinion – Town of Leeds / Potter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2021 Page 12 of 14
The Town’s role here is to determine whether the Potter property meets the criteria of the Hillside
Overlay exception, and to support its determination with substantial evidence. The Utah Supreme
Court has explained that, “in an administrative context, the statutory phrase ‘substantial evidence’
is a ‘term of art,’ which includes within its meaning the requirement ‘that localities must provide
reasons’ [for their] determinations.”38

The Town has concluded that the exception does not apply to Mr. Potter’s property because there
is no record in Town minutes that the Town granted final subdivision approval, and the Town is
not otherwise convinced that evidence of a subsequent sale of the parcel conclusively shows that
subdivision approval was in fact given. This is substantial evidence in support of the Town’s
conclusion. The Town has provided sufficient reasons to support its conclusion. Admittedly, under
the same standard, there likewise appears to be substantial evidence to support a conclusion that
formal subdivision, with approval, did occur; nevertheless, the Town has made its decision.

Alleging that Town records are deficient, of itself, does not overcome the Town’s decision. It would
be incumbent on Mr. Potter, as the party asserting the deficiency in the record, to conclusively
establish through other forms of relevant evidence that the approval was in fact given. Unless such
evidence is provided to fill in the gaps of a deficient record, a “reasonable mind could reach the
same conclusion” that the absence of a final approval decision in available records reflects the
absence of final approval being given. While the Town’s conclusion may not be the only
conclusion reachable by a reasonable mind, it is nevertheless a reasoned determination supported
by the evidence, and is therefore not arbitrary or capricious. Accordingly, the Town may properly
apply the requirements of the Hillside overlay in this case.

       C. Proceeding with Reasonable Diligence

Mr. Potter makes one final argument that even if no final approval had been obtained from the
Town Council, because Alberta’s application complied with the minor subdivision ordinance then
in effect, and because the only stated condition of approval was fulfilled, the conditionally
approved single-lot subdivision continues to be entitled to final approval as a vested right.

Understandably, Mr. Potter’s primary argument is that final approval had actually been given by
the Town Council. However, if it is conceded that no final approval had been given by the Town
Council, Mr. Potter cannot likely rely on the vested rights rule as an alternative argument to say
that a conditional approval remains valid over twenty years later.

Utah law provides that “the continuing validity of an approval of a land use application is
conditioned upon the applicant proceeding after approval to implement the approval with
reasonable diligence.”39 While Utah courts have never defined a time limit on reasonable diligence,
it is not accurate to say that the vesting rule “contains no expiration”, as argued by Mr. Potter.




38
     McElhaney v. City of Moab, 2017 UT 65, ¶ 34, 423 P.3d 1284 (cleaned up).
39
     UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(e).

Advisory Opinion – Town of Leeds / Potter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2021 Page 13 of 14
The entitlement expires if the applicant fails to “proceed[] after approval to implement the approval
with reasonable diligence.”40 There is no evidence of efforts to obtain a final Town Council
approval following fulfillment of the condition stated in the conditional approval. Instead, the
record reflects that Alberta thereafter sold the property, which subsequently changed hands a
number of times and remained undeveloped up until the time of Mr. Potter’s current application
for development. If obtaining final Town Council approval is what is needed to “implement the
[conditional] approval” that had been given, intending to do so only after twenty years of inaction
does not satisfy the reasonable diligence standard for continued validity of the approval.

                                            CONCLUSION

The Hillside overlay exception for developments of record applies to approved single-lot
subdivisions from larger parcels, which require a final approval decision of the Town Council. The
record is clear that Mr. Potter’s predecessor underwent Town proceedings to subdivide a
developable lot from her larger acreage for purposes of a sale, and that Mr. Potter’s parcel was
subsequently partitioned off and in fact sold. However, because there is a lack of evidence that the
Town Council took action to give final approval of the single-lot subdivision, the Town’s
conclusion not to apply the Hillside overlay exception to the Potter property satisfies the
substantial evidence standard for a land use decision, and is appropriate and lawful.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




40
     Id.

Advisory Opinion – Town of Leeds / Potter
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
February 11, 2021 Page 14 of 14
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based
on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are
also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
