                     Advisory Opinion #229
                  Parties: Matthew V. Hess, Mussentuchit Holdings, LLC; Lehi City
                                    Issued: September 1, 2020

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                        Exactions on Development

Government-mandated contributions of property as a condition of development approval
are exactions. To be legal, an exaction must provide a solution to a problem that
particular development creates, and must be roughly proportionate to the actual impact
of the development.

In conjunction with the development of a residential subdivision, the city required a
developer to widen a creek channel to increase its water-carrying capacity to serve the
greater community flood-control needs and to construct a pedestrian trail to enhance
regional recreation improvements. The city acknowledged that these are system
improvements rather than project improvements, and as such has reimbursed the actual
construction costs to the developer, and purchased that portion of property required for
the improvements. However, the city has declined to reimburse the developer for the
engineering review and design fees, as well as the permitting fees associated with their
construction. This constitutes and exaction, and as the improvements are system
improvements that serve community-wide needs, they do not provide a solution to a
problem the development creates and are therefore unlawful. Accordingly, the City must
reimburse the developer for the disputed costs and fees to avoid imposing an illegal
exaction.


                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            CHRIS PARKER             JORDAN CULLIMORE
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director       Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor



                                                 ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:                  Matthew V. Hess, Mussentuchit Holdings, LLC

        Local Government Entity:                        Lehi City

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:                Matthew V. Hess, Mussentuchit Holdings, LLC

        Type of Property:                               Residential

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:                  September 1, 2020

        Opinion Authored By:                            Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                        Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                         ISSUE
        Does the city’s failure to reimburse the developer for the engineering design and review fees and
        other soft costs associated with the construction of system improvements, including a regional
        trail and regional flood control measures, constitute an illegal exaction?

                                         SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        Government-mandated contributions of property as a condition of development approval are
        exactions. To be legal, an exaction must provide a solution to a problem that particular
        development creates, and must be roughly proportionate to the actual impact of the development.

        In conjunction with the development of a residential subdivision, the city required a developer to
        widen a creek channel to increase its water-carrying capacity to serve the greater community
        flood-control needs and to construct a pedestrian trail to enhance regional recreation
        improvements. The city acknowledged that these are system improvements rather than project
        improvements, and as such has reimbursed the actual construction costs to the developer, and
        purchased that portion of property required for the improvements. However, the city has
        declined to reimburse the developer for the engineering review and design fees, as well as the
        permitting fees associated with their construction. This constitutes and exaction, and as the
        improvements are system improvements that serve community-wide needs, they do not provide a
        solution to a problem the development creates and are therefore unlawful. Accordingly, the City
must reimburse the developer for the disputed costs and fees to avoid imposing an illegal
exaction.

                                                     REVIEW
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An Advisory Opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Matthew V. Hess of Mussentuchit
Holdings, LLC on June 4, 2019. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Marilyn
Banasky, City Recorder, City of Lehi, 153 North 100 East, Lehi, Utah 84043.

                                                    EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Letter Requesting an Advisory Opinion submitted by Matthew V. Hess of Mussentuchit
        Holdings, LLC dated June 4, 2019.
     2. Reply submitted by Douglas J. Ahlstrom, Assistant Lehi City Attorney, dated July 16,
        2019.

                                                 BACKGROUND
Mussentuchit Holdings, LLC owns a 5.65 acre parcel of vacant land located at 925 West 700
South in Lehi, Utah which is bisected by a stream known as Dry Creek (the “Property”). Several
years ago, Mussentuchit subdivided the Property to create a nineteen-lot residential subdivision
known as Creekside Farm Residential Subdivision. One of Lehi City’s conditions to final plat
approval was that Mussentuchit widen the Dry Creek channel to increase its water-carrying
capacity, and construct a pedestrian trail adjacent to the creek, including a pedestrian bridge
crossing Dry Creek (collectively, the “Improvements”).1

After extensive negotiations, the parties entered into a Reimbursement Agreement which details
the specific Improvement-related expenses Lehi agreed to compensate Mussentuchit for (the
“Reimbursement Agreement”). Because the Improvements serve the community at large rather
     1
       Lehi also required Mussentuchit to install a storm drain pipe and pave additional width within existing right-
     of-way along that portion of 700 South adjacent to the property. As Mussentuchit was reimbursed for all costs
     associated with these improvements, and none of the related fees are disputed, these will not be discussed in this
     advisory opinion.
Advisory Opinion – Matthew Hess / Lehi City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 1, 2020       Page 2 of 9
than just the immediate subdivision, Lehi agreed to purchase that portion of property needed for
the trail and to reimburse all Improvement construction costs. However, the city refused to
reimburse Mussentuchit for the “soft costs” related to the Dry Creek Improvements, including:

           $5,100 engineering design fees: for civil engineering fees to design the creek widening
            (to increase its capacity and flow rate), and to design the pedestrian trail;

           $2,000 stream alteration permit fee: for an application fee to Utah Division of Water
            Rights to obtain a stream alteration permit to allow widening of the Dry Creek channel;

           $9,406.20 environmental engineering fees related to stream alteration permit: for
            environmental engineer’s fees to prepare an application to the U.S. Army Corps of
            Engineers in support of issuance of the stream alteration permit (note that $9,406.20
            represents 80% of the engineer’s total fee, the remaining 20% being allocable to wetland
            analysis for an adjacent irrigation ditch);

           $3,000 hydraulic analysis of stream bed improvements: for hydraulic engineering fees to
            conduct analysis of Dry Creek’s flow to verify whether engineered improvements to the
            Creek will yield the flow capacity the City required,

(collectively, the “Improvement Soft Costs”).

The Improvement Soft Costs are specifically detailed in the Reimbursement Agreement and
labeled as “Disputed Reimbursement Amount by City”. The Reimbursement Agreement further
states that “City and Landowner disagree about whether those costs are properly reimbursable to
Landowner by City. As an alternative to resolution of this dispute by the courts, City and
Landowner agree to submit the dispute to the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman for an
advisory opinion.....”

Accordingly, Mussentuchit has requested this advisory opinion to determine whether Lehi’s
refusal to reimburse the Improvement Soft Costs constitutes an unlawful exaction.

In addition, Mussentuchit has requested that this opinion address Lehi’s failure to reimburse a
separate, unanticipated construction expense.           During construction of the subdivision
improvements, the construction contractor identified an existing city water blow off stand pipe
that sat squarely in the path of the planned off-site sidewalk. The relevant portion of sidewalk is
just north of the Mussentuchit property, and was not required to be constructed as a condition of
development. However, as a practical matter, the adjacent existing sidewalk did not extend all
the way to the Mussentuchit boundary, and if the contractor had completed only what was
required, there would have been an unimproved gap of several feet between the old and new
sidewalk sections. As a matter of expediency, the contractor decided to connect the old and new
sidewalk sections to avoid leaving an unsafe gap. The blow off stand pipe originally lay in the
direct path of the proposed sidewalk. The contractor moved the stand pipe to a point a few feet
south to a spot within the park strip. The contractor charged Mussentuchit an additional $4,398
for that work. Lehi has refused to reimburse Mussentuchit for the cost to relocate the blow off
pipe because it is a development-related cost and was not approved ahead of time.

Advisory Opinion – Matthew Hess / Lehi City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 1, 2020       Page 3 of 9
                                                ANALYSIS
     I.          Disputed Reimbursement Amount is an exaction which must satisfy the Rough
                 Proportionality Test to be Lawful

Mussentuchit claims that Lehi’s refusal to reimburse the Improvement Soft Costs is an unlawful
development exaction. A development exaction “is a government-mandated contribution of
property imposed as a condition” of development approval.2 The term “exaction” may include
any condition on development, including the payment of money, installation of specific
improvements, donation of property, and/or providing public improvements.3

Development exactions are legal and appropriate only if they are “roughly proportionate” to the
impact the development creates. For instance, the municipality may require the construction of
public improvements such as roadways, sidewalks, and flood control measures to offset the
impacts on the community made by the new development. An excessive exaction requires a
property owner to pay for impacts beyond its own.4 A municipality must not “forc[e] some
people alone to bear public burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the
public as a whole.”5

Exactions implicate the Takings Clause of the U.S. Constitution and Article I Section 22 of the
Utah Constitution, which protect private property from governmental taking without just
compensation.

The principles governing exactions are outlined in the U.S. Supreme Court’s landmark decisions
in Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n6 and Dolan v. City of Tigard7 which the Utah
Legislature has distilled and codified in Utah Code § 10-9a-508(1). The analysis has been
termed the “rough proportionality test,” and provides:

           A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in
           a land use application . . ., if:

           (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
               exaction; and,
           (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact
               of the proposed development.8

If a proposed exaction satisfies this test, and is otherwise legal, it is valid. If the exaction fails
the test, it violates protections guaranteed by the Takings Clauses of the Utah and U.S.
Constitutions and is illegal.9
2
  B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, (BAM III), 2012 UT 26, ¶16.
3
  Koontz v. St. Johns River Water, 133 S. Ct. 2586 (2013).
4
  Banberry Development Corporation v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899, 903 (Utah 1981).
5
  Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960).
6
  Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825 (1987).
7
  Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994).
8
  UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1).
Advisory Opinion – Matthew Hess / Lehi City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 1, 2020       Page 4 of 9
The Utah Supreme Court has provided further guidance on how to analyze rough proportionality.
In B.A.M. II, the Court explained that rough proportionality analysis articulated above “has two
aspects: first, the exaction and impact must be related in nature; second, they must be related in
extent.”10 The “nature” aspect focuses on the relationship between the anticipated impact and
proposed exaction. The court described the approach “in terms of a solution and a problem….
[T]he impact is the problem, or the burden which the community will bear because of the
development. The exaction should address the problem. If it does, then the nature component
has been satisfied.”11

The “extent” aspect of the rough proportionality analysis measures the impact against the
proposed exaction in terms of cost.12 The court explained that “roughly proportional” means
“roughly equivalent.”13 Thus, in order to be valid, the cost of an exaction must be roughly
equivalent to the cost that a local government would incur to mitigate impacts attributable to
development.

Accordingly, Lehi’s requirement that Mussentuchit incur the Improvement Soft Costs, imposed
as a condition to final plat approval, is an exaction that must satisfy the rough proportionality
test. Lehi may impose the exaction “so long as there is a ‘nexus’ [or link] and ‘rough
proportionality’ between the property that the government demands and the social costs of the
applicant’s proposal.”14 Lehi’s exaction must solve a problem that development of Creekside
Farm Subdivision creates. Further, the cost to Mussentuchit must be proportionate to the impacts
the development imposes upon the community.

The City has the burden to show the proposed exactions are proportionate, or equivalent, to the
development’s impacts and therefore valid. Note that “[n]o precise mathematical calculation is
required, but the city must make some sort of individualized determination that the required
dedication is related both in nature and extent to the impact of the proposed development.”15

Mussentuchit argues that the required Improvements serve the community as a whole, far exceed
the impact of the Creekside Farm Subdivision, and the Improvement Soft Costs are integral to
their construction. Mussentuchit therefore argues that but for the need to construct the
community-benefitting flood, drainage, and trail Improvements, Mussentuchit would not have
incurred Improvement Soft Costs, and they should be reimbursed.

As an example, Mussentuchit argues that development of Creekside Farm Subdivision did not
create any hydrologic need to widen Dry Creek to increase its water-carrying capacity. Rather,
for purposes of area-wide flood control and storm drain capacity, Lehi desired that Dry Creek’s
flow capacity be increased in this area. Had the improvements to Dry Creek not been required,
Mussentuchit would have left the creek bed in its natural condition, and installed a simple
concrete box culvert bridge crossing.
9
  Call v. West Jordan, 614 P.2d 1257, 1259 (Utah 1980).
10
   B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County (BAM II), 2008 UT 74, at ¶9.
11
   Id. at ¶10.
12
   Id. at ¶11.
13
   Id. at ¶8.
14
   Koontz, 133 S.Ct. 2586, 2595 (2013).
15
   See Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391-92.
Advisory Opinion – Matthew Hess / Lehi City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 1, 2020       Page 5 of 9
Further, Mussentuchit argues that the $5,100 in civil engineering fees to design the widened and
improved creek including the community pedestrian trail, and the $3,000 for the hydraulic
engineer’s analysis, were only required because of Lehi’s desire to achieve an increased water-
carrying capacity for Dry Creek and construct a community-serving trail, not due to the impact
of developing the Creekside Farm Subdivision.

Additionally, Mussentuchit argues that the $9,406.20 fee for the environmental engineer was
necessitated solely by construction of Improvements within Dry Creek. They claim that had the
impact to Dry Creek been limited to the concrete box culvert, as required to provide a road
crossing by the new subdivision, a much less rigorous jurisdictional threshold would have been
achieved vis-à-vis the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Instead, the improvements to Dry Creek
exceeded 500 linear feet, and Mussentuchit was required to conduct a more thorough
environmental site assessment to obtain the necessary permit from the Corps. Neither party
specifies what, if any, the engineering fees would have been for the minimal concrete box culvert
option.

Mussentuchit further argues that the stream alteration permit from the Utah Division of Water
Rights was $2,000. As above, neither party specifies whether this fee would have been required
for the concrete box culvert.

Conversely, Lehi argues that the Improvement Soft Costs were not approved before they were
incurred, would be incurred even if the concrete box culvert option had been constructed, and the
city has adopted a Sharing Cost of Improvements Plan which does not include reimbursement for
Improvement Soft Costs.

Lehi calls out the $9,406.20 in particular for environmental engineer review as excessive, not
needed, and inconsistent with requirements for similar permits in similar situations it is familiar
with.

Lehi also points out that it has adopted Section 2.19, Sharing Cost of Improvements in its Lehi
City Design Standards and Public Improvement Specifications (2016) (hereinafter “Cost Sharing
Plan”). The Cost Sharing Plan specifies that the developer shall be 100% responsible for flood
channel improvements and all other required improvements, and that the cost of parks and trails
will be individually decided based on a recommendation of the City Engineer and approved by
City Council.

Lehi argues that inasmuch as Mussentuchit chose to design its subdivision with a bridge through
Dry Creek and to use the channel for storm water outfall, Mussentuchit is responsible for the
engineering fees to verify stream flow would not be hindered by its box culvert and road bridge
improvements and for the application fees for the stream alteration permit. Lehi claims they did
not request an upsize to the project Improvements; therefore, no reimbursement is required for
increased size of project Improvements. Nevertheless, Lehi states that they are reimbursing
Mussentuchit $84,000 for the system improvements to Dry Creek.

Lehi states generally that Mussentuchit would have been required to obtain a stream alteration
permit from the Utah Division of Water Rights and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers even had they

Advisory Opinion – Matthew Hess / Lehi City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 1, 2020       Page 6 of 9
just been installing the box culvert over Dry Creek and used Dry Creek as a storm drain outfall,
as required by the design of the project. Lehi claims that these items constitute project
improvements and the costs associated therewith are not eligible for reimbursement. However,
Lehi does not substantiate these claims, nor do they give cost estimates or details to rebut
Mussentuchit’s claim that the complexity of the extended improvements necessitated these
expenses.

     A. Essential link between exaction and governmental interest

The first part of Utah Code section 10-9a-508(1) requires an essential link between a legitimate
governmental interest and the exaction(s) imposed. Lehi’s legitimate government interests in
this case are effective flood control measures which are adequate to meet the needs of the
community and in providing opportunities for public recreation.

Cities have broad discretion to enact regulations intended to promote the health, safety, and
welfare of the public.

           The municipal legislative body may pass all ordinances and rules, and make all
           regulations, not repugnant to law, necessary for carrying into effect or discharging
           all powers and duties conferred by [Chapter 10-8], and as are necessary and
           proper to provide for the safety and preserve the health, and promote the
           prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience of
           the city and its inhabitants, and for the protection of property in the city.

UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-8-84(1). This section grants two distinct types of authority: (1) Power to
implement and carry out mandates specifically granted by the Utah Legislature, and (2) The
power to act for the general welfare of the public.16 Protecting property from flood damage is
clearly within a city’s authority to “provide for the safety” of its inhabitants and “protect
property.” Similarly, providing opportunities for public recreation falls within the authority
granted for the “general welfare of the public.” 17

Accordingly, the essential link portion of the rough proportionality test is satisfied.

     B. Improvement Soft Costs do not satisfy the nature aspect of the analysis

A court engaging in a rough proportionality analysis must next determine whether the nature of
the exaction and impact are related. To determine this relationship, Utah courts have adopted the
method of looking at the exaction and impact in terms of a solution and problem, respectively.18
The impact is the problem, or the burden that the community will bear because of the
development. If the exaction addresses the problem, the nature component is satisfied.19




16
   See State v. Hutchinson, 624 P.2d 1116, 1122 (Utah 1980) (evaluating language nearly identical to § 10-8-84).
17
   See, e.g. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-401 listing “recreational” as a specified purpose to include in general plans.
18
   BAM II, 2008 UT 74 at ¶10.
19
   Id.
Advisory Opinion – Matthew Hess / Lehi City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 1, 2020       Page 7 of 9
Lehi has stated that the required flood control and regional trail Improvements are system
improvements, and by their nature serve the needs of the greater community, rather than off-set
any impact imposed by the proposed subdivision. Therefore, the Improvements do not “solve”
any “problem” created by the development.

The Improvement Soft Costs are directly related to and an inseparable part of Mussentuchit’s
construction of the Improvements. The Improvements could not have been constructed without
first engaging engineers to design them and secure the necessary permits and approvals for their
installation.20

As both parties agree that the Improvements do not solve a problem created by the development,
and Improvement Soft Costs are part of the cost of providing the Improvements, the nature
component of the proportionality test is not satisfied, and the exaction is unlawful.

As the nature portion of the test has not been satisfied, analysis of the extent portion is
unnecessary. If the proposed exaction fails to pass any part of the rough proportionality test, the
exaction is unlawful.

     II.         Blow off pipe relocation expense not analyzed

This office does not have authority to issue an Advisory Opinions on topics outside those listed
in UTAH CODE § 13-43-205. The City did not require Mussentuchit to construct the off-site
section of sidewalk which necessitated moving the stand pipe. As this improvement was not a
condition to development approval, and this question does not appear to fall within any other
category this office has authority to consider, whether Lehi is required to repay this expense was
not evaluated.21

                                                CONCLUSION
Government-mandated contributions of property as a condition of development approval are
exactions. To be legal, an exaction must provide a solution to a problem that particular
development creates, and must be roughly proportionate to the actual impact of the development.

In conjunction with the development of a residential subdivision, Lehi required Mussentuchit to
widen the Dry Creek channel to increase its water-carrying capacity to serve the greater

20
   Lehi argues that Mussentuchit would have incurred some permitting and design costs for the box culvert bridge
crossing required to serve the project, therefore, Mussentuchit should pay ALL the Improvement Soft Costs for the
extended system Improvements. This is not the case. It may be that Lehi is only responsible for the costs to
“upsize” from the box culvert to the full extent of the required Improvements. However, Lehi has the burden to
make “some sort of individualized determination that the required expenditure is related in both nature and extent to
the impact of the proposed development.” B.A.M., 2006 UT 2. As Lehi has not provided cost estimates or other
evidence of what the cost difference between the box culvert and the required Improvements would have been, this
office cannot make this estimation.
21
   Nonetheless, in an effort to assist in resolving the dispute, and based on the limited information available, the
author will posit that the contractor appears to have provided a beneficial service to Lehi in moving the stand pipe
and connecting the two sections of sidewalk. If the cost charged is reasonable, and Lehi would have otherwise
needed to do the work themselves, it seems appropriate to reimburse the developer in this instance.
Advisory Opinion – Matthew Hess / Lehi City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 1, 2020       Page 8 of 9
community flood-control needs and to construct a pedestrian trail to enhance regional recreation
improvements. Lehi acknowledged that these are system improvements rather than project
improvements, and as such has reimbursed the developer for the construction cost and purchased
that portion of property required for the improvements. However, Lehi has declined to
reimburse the developer for the engineering and permitting fees associated with their
construction. This constitutes and exaction, and as the improvements are system improvements,
and serve community-wide needs, they do not provide a solution to a problem the development
creates, and are therefore unlawful.




Jordan Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Matthew Hess / Lehi City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 1, 2020       Page 9 of 9
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:



                             Teisha Wilson, City Recorder
                             City of Lehi
                             153 North 100 East
                             Lehi, Utah 84043


On this 2nd day of September, 2020, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to
the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
