                     Advisory Opinion #228

                              Parties: Recycled Earth LLC and Ogden City

                                          Issued: August 27, 2020


                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                          Pending Ordinances
                                      Substantive Land Use Review

A land use applicant who has submitted a complete land use application is entitled to
substantive review under the land use regulations in effect at the time and applicable to
the application, or, to the information shown on the application. Where an application is
for a defined land use, all regulations relevant to that defined use are applicable for
purposes of substantive review, regardless that the information shown in the application
may be more limited. If, prior to substantive review of the application, pending legislation
is introduced that would affect the categorical use applied for, review of the application
must continue to be based on all applicable land use standards in effect at the time of
the application and not on what information may have been included—or excluded—in
application documents. After receiving a complete land use application that was
categorically a request for a defined land use under city code, the city introduced
pending legislation to eliminate that land use from the applicant’s zone. The city
thereafter reviewed the application but wrongfully limited the scope of its review to only
those activities reflected by the information shown in the application as opposed to all
land use regulations applicable to the application as a defined land use.


                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            CHRIS PARKER             JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director       Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION


        Advisory Opinion Requested By:                   Recycled Earth, LLC

        Local Government Entity:                         Ogden City

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:                 Recycled Earth, LLC

        Type of Property:                                M-2 Manufacturing and Industrial

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:                   August 27, 2020

        Opinion Authored By:                             Richard B. Plehn, Attorney
                                                         Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                          ISSUE

        Is the scope of vested rights in a complete land use application for a conditional use permit, as it
        relates to later pending ordinances, limited to the information shown in the application, or does it
        include the categorical land use identified in the application?

                                             SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

        Recycled Earth submitted a complete land use application to Ogden City requesting approval of
        a waste transfer station—a defined land use under Ogden City Code that was allowed as a
        conditional use in the M-2 zone at the time the application was submitted. The information
        shown in Recycled Earth’s application, as submitted, identified certain proposed activities related
        to a waste transfer station, but excluded the handling of municipal solid waste, specifically.

        Subsequently, Ogden City initiated proceedings to remove waste transfer stations as
        conditionally permitted uses in the M-2 zone altogether, and thereafter reviewed the application
        refusing to consider any handling of municipal waste as a waste transfer station due to the
        ordinance change, and based upon the information in the application. Because Recycled Earth’s
        application was categorically a request to operate a waste transfer station, Recycled Earth has a
        vested right to substantive review of its application under all land use ordinances applicable to
        waste transfer stations in effect when the complete application was submitted.
                                                       REVIEW

A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Title 13, Chapter 43, Section
205 of the Utah Code. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty
to exhaust administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a
land use application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an
issue. It is hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a
fair and neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as
explained at the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving
such issues in the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Marie Bradshaw Durrant, counsel for and
on behalf of, Recycled Earth, LLC, on June 24, 2019. A copy of that request was sent via
certified mail to Tracy Hansen, Ogden City Recorder, 2549 Washington Blvd, Suite 210, Ogden
Utah 84401 on July 1, 2019.

                                                      EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Marie Bradshaw Durrant, counsel for
        Recycled Earth, LLC, received on June 24, 2019, and together with attached
        memorandum and accompanying attachments labeled Exhibit A through Exhibit P.
     2. Ogden City Response to Recycled Earth’s Advisory Opinion Request, received August
        25, 2019, with accompanying attachments labeled Exhibit 1 through Exhibit 17.
     3. Recycled Earth LLC’s Reply In Support of Request for Advisory Opinion, received
        October 29, 2019.
     4. Ogden City Response to Recycled Earth’s Reply, received November 15, 2019.
     5. Additional documents from Ogden City, received by email April 6, 2020.
     6. Recycled Earth’s Supplemental Brief, received June 6, 2020.
     7. Ogden City Response to Ombudsman Email Request and Recycled Earth’s Supplemental
        Brief, received June 22, 2020.

                                                     BACKGROUND

Recycled Earth LLC is a Utah company with its principal operation at property located in Ogden
City (“City”) zoned M-2 for manufacturing and industrial use. Recycled Earth began its
operations in May 2010 when it received a conditional use permit from Ogden City to operate a
“recycling center/salvage yard”. In the M-2 manufacturing zone, a Junk or Salvage Yard (or
Recycling Processing Center)1 is listed as a conditional use.2 Recycled Earth described the

1
 While Ogden City Code Section 15-22-2 lists Recycling Collection Center and Junk or Salvage Yard in its table of
uses, there is no mention of Recycling Processing Centers as a use in any zone. Reading the Ogden City Code as a
harmonious whole, “Recycling Processing Center” is synonymous with “Junk or Salvage Yard” for purposes of

Advisory Opinion – Recycled Earth LLC / Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 27, 2020 Page 2 of 11
intended use as a concrete/asphalt recycling operation to recycle demolition material such as
wood, shingles, glass and sheetrock.

One of the conditions imposed in the 2010 permit indicated that the types of material must be
limited to “basic construction and demolition materials considered non-hazardous by the EPA,”
based on the intended use as presented. Over the next few years, Recycled Earth received an
amended conditional use permit in January 2012 to install weighing scales and a scale house on
site, and again in November 6, 2013 for the construction of a baling building and a storage
building for baling of plastic, paper/cardboard, and light metals.

In March 2014, the City had become aware that Recycled Earth’s operations had assumedly
began acting as a waste transfer station for recycled items by receiving residential recycle
collections from Roy City. The City sent the company a letter stating that if this was true,
receiving these household type items was outside of the permissions of the company’s 2010
approval for recycling basic construction and demolition materials, and the company was
operating as a waste transfer station under Ogden City zoning code which required a conditional
use permit and was subject to other code requirements specific to waste transfer stations.

The City asked the company to clarify its future plans so that its permissions could match up
with actual activities on site, and asked the company to provide a list of items that will be
recycled and those that will be transferred. Recycled Earth responded by providing a list of
recyclable items to be recycled, baled, and transferred to a refiner or more specialized recycler.
The company also identified a list of handled, non-recyclable items/materials that would be
rejected and transferred, which included certain normally recyclable items that weren’t recovered
through the current recycling process for reasons that they are heavily mixed or contaminated by
soil, as well as other non-recyclable materials.

In August 2014, Recycled Earth submitted a conditional use permit application, but failed to
include a formal site plan and accompanying fee for site plan review, as required by city code.
Recycled Earth followed up on the application in October, and the City explained the application
was deficient. On October 30, 2014, Recycled Earth submitted a new application with the
required site plan, and paid all applicable fees.

The October 2014 application was labeled as “Ogden Recycling and Transfer Station,” and
described the site as intended to be used to “dump, process, and transfer nonhazardous material.”
The application included a site plan depicting two proposed buildings, respectively described as
“Transfer Building” and “Bailing [sic].” The title of the site plan was Recycled Earth Transfer
Station. In an attached letter, the operation is described as desiring to be a one-stop recycling
center, as in the course of dealing with construction and demolition waste, Recycled Earth found

Section 15-22-2. See OGDEN CITY CODE § 15-2-19 (defining Recycling Processing Center to include junk or salvage
yard where processing recyclable material is included). See also OGDEN CITY CODE § 15-23-2(G)-(H) (providing for
special regulations for “Junk Or Salvage Yards And Recycling Processing Centers,” jointly, while regulating
“Recycling Collection Centers” separately).
2
  OGDEN CITY CODE § 15-22-2 (Ord. 2015-4, 2-24-2015). This Office has only been provided with a historical
version of this code section dating back to February 2015, but will assume that the prior ordinance in effect at the
time of Recycled Earth’s 2010 conditional use application was unaltered in that it provided for this use as a
conditional use.

Advisory Opinion – Recycled Earth LLC / Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 27, 2020 Page 3 of 11
it encountered material that cannot be recycled, and considered itself necessarily a transfer
station to handle both recyclables and unrecyclables from construction waste.

In November 2014, city planning officials met with Recycled Earth regarding the application to
discuss an issue with existing code requirements for waste transfer station queuing lanes for
scales that could not be met by the current site. The parties discussed that a zoning amendment
was needed to allow the application to move forward. In December 2014 the company submitted
a petition to amend the City’s zoning ordinance to shorten the queuing distance for waste transfer
stations.

In reviewing the ordinance change petition, the City’s planning commission described the
petition as a request from Recycled Earth to “expand [its] recycling operation to include waste
transfer of certain materials” to operate as a “transfer station that would run in conjunction with
the ‘Recycled Earth’ recycling center.” The review identified Recycled Earth’s proposed waste
transfer station as the only such use within city limits, with the only comparative example being
the Weber County Transfer Station in unincorporated Weber County. While the petition before
the planning commission was limited to changing the ordinance on queuing distance generally, it
discussed Recycled Earth’s operation at length being the only relevant property subject to the
ordinance change, including discussion that a waste transfer station was a conditional use and
permissions could be revoked in the case of public impact from queuing-related issues. The City
Council heard the petition on February 17, 2015, and passed the ordinance change unanimously.

While the City had noted that the conditional use permit application had been waiting for the
zoning amendment to move forward, once the ordinance change passed, the City alleges that
Recycled Earth represented that it was holding off on further activity on the 2014 conditional use
permit application due to lack of funding to provide additional plans to build the proposed
buildings.

In early 2017, Recycled Earth started handling Weber County’s residential and commercial
recycling and began handling different types of materials in residential single stream, including
municipal solid waste, which brought unforeseen issues. The company realized that it needed to
move forward with its master plan and in March 2017 applied for a building permit for “New
Bailing [sic] Building” and a “New Transfer Building,” which it received in May 2017, and in
August 2017 applied for a permit to finish the interior of the baling building, granted in October
2017.

At this point, Recycled Earth appears to have mistakenly interpreted the City’s granting the
ordinance change and approving its building permits as an approval of its 2014 conditional use
application. Believing it now had the City’s approval to operate as a waste transfer station, in
January 2018 Recycled Earth updated its state recycling permit to include transfer activities with
the Utah Division of Solid and Hazardous Waste, citing the City’s approval of its operation.

In May 2018, following citizen complaints received about Recycled Earth’s operations, the City
investigated unpermitted property uses on site and issued a Notice of Code Violation. In response
to the violation notice, on May 31, 2018, Recycled Earth sent a letter to the City stating it was
unaware that approval of its October 2014 application was unresolved. The letter further

Advisory Opinion – Recycled Earth LLC / Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 27, 2020 Page 4 of 11
explained that while originally it did not want to deal with wet food waste, once it started
handling residential single stream recycling, it found that it by nature began receiving municipal
solid waste which initially caused some unforeseen issues, but that it was working to mitigate the
problems. The letter noted that with modern technology, it had been researching advanced
processes that would allow it to turn wet waste, plastics, paper and food waste into compost. The
letter therefore made clear that Recycled Earth intended to include the handling of these
additional waste materials in moving forward with the unresolved 2014 conditional use
application as a waste transfer station.

Days after this letter, on June 5, 2018, the City sent a Cease and Desist Letter re: Operation of
Unapproved Waste Transfer Station. The letter stated that Recycled Earth’s prior conditional use
permissions did not allow it to operate as a waste transfer station, in that the company has never
received any permission to handle general solid waste. The City additionally noted, however, that
“[a]lthough a conditional use permit application for a waste transfer station was submitted in
October 2014, that application was never approved.”3 Included with the letter was a Notice of
Pending Ordinance, also dated June 5, 2018, to remove waste transfer station as a conditional use
in the M-2 zone.

The City’s planning commission finally met on July 11, 2018 to consider the 2014 application,
and described the request as being limited to expanding the current permitted uses to receive
additional recyclable materials, and that accepting waste as a transfer station would not be a valid
conditional use based on the pending June 5, 2018 regulations removing waste transfer stations
from the M-2 zone. On August 1, 2018, the planning commission reviewed and approved an
amended conditional use permit for Recycled Earth to expand its recycling operation from a
construction and demolition (“C&D”) collection and recycling center to a full recycling
collection and processing center, excluding vehicle-related materials and mixed commercial
waste or municipal waste. The City imposed a condition that the building proposed as a transfer
building could not be approved and used for any waste transfer as per city definition.

The proposed ordinance change to remove waste transfer stations was scheduled to be heard by
the Ogden City Council in November 2018. Prior to the hearing, Recycled Earth sent the City
Council a letter, through counsel, asking it to deny the change to the waste transfer station
ordinance, and asserted Recycled Earth’s vested rights to operate a waste transfer station under
its 2014 application. The Ogden City Council approved the ordinance change removing waste
transfer stations as a conditional use in the M-2 zone.

Recycled Earth LLC has requested that the Ombudsman provide an Advisory Opinion to
determine whether it has vested rights to operate as a waste transfer station according to its
conditional use application.

                                                     ANALYSIS

Utah’s Municipal Land Use Development and Management Act (LUDMA) grants land use
applicants certain entitlements through the land use application process. These entitlements

3
    Ogden City Letter to David Rawson, dated June 5, 2018.

Advisory Opinion – Recycled Earth LLC / Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 27, 2020 Page 5 of 11
create vested rights against subsequent changes to the law that might directly affect the proposed
land use prior to a final decision on the application.4

The parties agree that Recycled Earth submitted a complete land use application in October
2014, and therefore triggered vested rights, but disagree as to the nature of those rights. Since
submitting its request for an Advisory Opinion, Recycled Earth has had a number of changes to
legal counsel, and its legal position has somewhat evolved over the course of its submissions.
However, overall, Recycled Earth asserts it has secured a vested right to operate a Waste Transfer
Station as an entitlement.5 The City, however, believes that Recycled Earth’s vested rights were
limited to the information shown in the 2014 application, which the City alleges merely proposed
limited transfer-related activities as an expanded recycling operation, so no vested rights to
operate a waste transfer station may be established, and the City properly reviewed the
application and approved a permit for an expanded recycling operation only.

Recycled Earth appears to overestimate the vesting effect of its 2014 application. It does not
automatically entitle the application to approval. Rather, it serves to entitle the application to
substantive review under the ordinances in place at the time of the application without regard to
the City’s later introduction of pending legislation that would affect the application.6 If the
application vests for being complete, the City must still substantively review Recycled Earth’s
request to operate a waste transfer station as a conditional use pursuant to applicable land use
regulations and development standards. If reasonable conditions are imposed or can be proposed
to substantially mitigate its detrimental effects, it then must be approved.7

The City, on the other hand, artificially narrows its ordinances to the detriment of Recycled
Earth’s vested rights, and with a certain measure of mental gymnastics, attempts to interpret the
2014 application to be something other than what it is—an application to operate a waste transfer
station as a conditional use within in the M-2 zone. Not only does the City concede that the
application was complete in October 2014, but the City’s current argument that Recycled Earth’s
2014 application was limited to a request for an expanded recycling operation is a sudden
reversal from the many prior instances up until June 2018 where the City referred to and
considered the application as a request for a waste transfer station.

Recycled Earth is entitled to substantive review of its 2014 application as to all land use
permissions applicable to waste transfer stations pursuant to the ordinances at the time of
submittal, including the handling of municipal waste. Any aspect of denial of Recycled Earth’s
proposed use needs to be based on applicable land use standards and not on what information
may have been included—or excluded—in application documents that otherwise sufficiently
identified the categorical land use to be substantively reviewed.



4
  UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(1)(b).
5
  Recycled Earth has gone so far as to argue that the City should be estopped from denying the use and that to do so
constitutes a constructive taking. However, the taking argument was not sufficiently briefed, and appears to be a
nonstarter in that it is clear that Recycled Earth continues to have economic use of its land despite Ogden’s denial of
its use as a waste transfer station. See e.g., Diamond B-Y Ranches v. Tooele County, 2004 UT App 135, 91 P.3d 841.
6
  UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(1).
7
  UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-507.

Advisory Opinion – Recycled Earth LLC / Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 27, 2020 Page 6 of 11
     I.          Recycled Earth’s 2014 Application Proposed A Waste Transfer Station

As this dispute depends on whether Recycled Earth’s 2014 application adequately proposed to
operate a waste transfer station, it is important to understand what a waste transfer station entails.

Ogden City Code defines waste transfer station as “[t]he use of any lot, portion of a lot, or tract
of land for the receiving, processing and immediate off site disposal of solid waste to a
permanent disposal site. This may include the temporary collection of recyclable materials and
household hazardous waste as an accessory use.”8 The main distinction, then, of what constitutes
a waste transfer station involves the handling of solid waste, specifically.

“Solid waste” is broadly defined by Ogden City Code to include “spent, useless, worthless or
discarded materials or materials stored or accumulated for the purpose of discarding; materials
that have served their original purpose . . . It is not intended to include recyclables as long as
such materials are being properly contained, collected, disposed, or reused.”9 Solid waste is
therefore contrasted with recyclable materials, which is defined as material intended for reuse.”10

Recycled Earth’s 2010 conditional use permit allowed it to operate as a Recycling Processing
Center which, by definition, is a “facility that accepts, stores or processes recyclable materials.”11
While “recyclable materials” is defined to include a wide range of materials, Recycled Earth’s
2010 conditional use permit was limited to “basic construction and demolition materials
considered non-hazardous by the EPA.” It follows, then, that any expanded use by Recycled
Earth to handle materials other than basic construction and demolition materials would require
an amended conditional use permit.

The City became aware in 2014 that Recycled Earth was not limiting its operation to basic
construction and demolition materials. It was the City’s assessment that Recycled Earth’s then
existing operation required approval as a waste transfer station, specifically, and it was the City’s
suggestion that Recycled Earth submit an application for a conditional use permit for the
expanded use so that its activities matched the approvals granted.
8
  OGDEN CITY CODE § 15-2-24 (Ord. 2011-2, 1-4-2011) (emphasis added).
9
   Solid Waste is defined as: “Garbage, refuse, trash, rubbish, community waste, trade waste, hazardous waste,
industrial waste, market waste, construction and demolition waste, dead animals, sludge, liquid or semiliquid waste;
other spent, useless, worthless or discarded materials or materials stored or accumulated for the purpose of
discarding; materials that have served their original purpose; or waste material resulting from industrial,
manufacturing, mining, commercial, agricultural, residential, institutional, recreational or community activities. It
does not include solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage or in irrigation return flows, or discharges from
which a permit is required under Utah Code Annotated title 26, chapter 11, as amended, or its successor, or under the
federal water pollution control act, 33 USC section 1251 et seq., or successor sections. It is not intended to include
recyclables as long as such materials are being properly contained, collected, disposed, or reused.” OGDEN CITY
CODE § 12-1-1 (Ord. 2002-73, 12-17-2002).
10
   Recyclable Material includes, but is not limited to, “glass, plastics and synthetic materials, paper products such as
newspaper, stationery, scrap paper, computer paper and corrugated cardboard, rubber, batteries, ferrous and
nonferrous metals, concrete, asphalt, wood, building materials, or any "junk or salvage material", as defined herein,
which are intended for reuse, remanufacture, or reconstitution for the purpose of using in altered form. Recyclable
material does not include refuse or hazardous materials nor does it include coins, precious metals or commercial
grade precious metals if they are the sole recyclable material.” OGDEN CITY CODE § 15-2-24 (Ord. 2011-2, 1-4-
2011).
11
   OGDEN CITY CODE § 15-2-19 (Ord. 2011-2, 1-4-2011).

Advisory Opinion – Recycled Earth LLC / Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 27, 2020 Page 7 of 11
At the time of Recycled Earth’s 2014 application, it had informed the City that it intended to
handle both recyclable and non-recyclable materials. Recyclable materials were to be recycled,
baled, and transferred to a refiner or more specialized recycler. However, Recycled Earth
intended to also receive some non-recyclable materials, which would be temporarily stored for
transfer off-site to be discarded. For this reason, Recycled Earth considered itself a transfer
station.

The introduction of handling non-recyclable materials as “solid waste” excludes Recycled
Earth’s proposed use from the definition of Recycling Processing Center, and requires
permission as a waste transfer station under Ogden City Code, as was suggested by the City. It
was therefore appropriate and necessary that Recycled Earth submit a land use application for a
conditional use permit to operate a waste transfer station. Recycled Earth’s 2014 application did
exactly that, and the City’s contention that the application was merely a request for an expanded
recycling operation is without support.

     II.         Recycled Earth is Entitled to Substantive Review Under All Ordinances
                 Applicable to Waste Transfer Stations

Ogden City concedes that Recycled Earth has vested rights, but alleges that only the specific
activity described in the application is vested. Recycled Earth’s 2014 application materials
specifically stated that it did not want to deal in “mixed wet garbage, only in, business,
construction or presorted reusable waste.”

The City makes an argument that the plain language of the 2014 application served to
unilaterally limit the scope of Recycled Earth’s vested rights, and that by excluding any request
to handle what the City terms municipal or single-stream solid waste, Recycled Earth’s
application can establish no vested right to handle that type of material against the City’s 2018
ordinance to remove waste transfer stations from the M-2 zone—without having first amended
the application to clarify the additional activities of handling solid waste. As solid waste runs the
gamut of all types of trash, garbage, rubbish, sludge, and other landfill-destined materials, the
types of material proposed to be handled by a waste transfer station makes a difference as to its
potential detrimental impacts, and it is certainly understandable why a municipality would be
concerned about just what activity exactly is vested by an application.

However, Section 10-9a-509(1) of LUDMA provides that a land use applicant who has submitted
a complete land use application is entitled to substantive review of the application under the land
use regulations “(A) in effect on the date that the application is complete; and (B) applicable to
the application or to the information shown on the application.”12

The plain language of Section 10-9a-509 does not support the City’s limitation argument. The
semantic canon of statutory construction followed by Utah courts provides that the use of the
word “or” in subsection (B), above, is disjunctive.13 This means that an applicant vests as to land

12
  UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(i) (emphases added).
13
  See, e.g., Mike's Smoke, Cigar & Gifts v. St. George City, 2017 UT App 20, ¶ 22, 391 P.3d 1079 (Finding no
ambiguity in Analog statute because the use of “or” in a subsection list of elements was disjunctive); see also,

Advisory Opinion – Recycled Earth LLC / Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 27, 2020 Page 8 of 11
use regulations applicable either to the application or the information shown therein. It does not
anticipate that an applicant vests only as to regulations “applicable to the application” unless
otherwise limited by “information shown on an application.” Such a conjunctive reading runs the
risk of causing ambiguity between the type of application and information shown in an
application resulting in different land use regulations being applicable to the proposed use for
purposes of vesting. Inasmuch as zoning laws are in “derogation of a property owner’s common-
law right to unrestricted use of his or her property . . . [and] provisions permitting property uses
[are therefore] liberally construed in favor of the property owner,”14 a disjunctive reading of the
vesting statute is also consistent with important constitutional avoidance principles.15

Recycled Earth’s 2014 application, categorically, was a request to operate a waste transfer
station, as it proposed to handle certain unrecyclable materials. A waste transfer station, as
defined, handles a variety of solid waste material. Where a land use application is a request for a
defined land use, any provision of relevant regulations regarding that use are applicable to the
application for purposes of vesting.

     III.        Subjecting the Application to Pending Legislation Introduced After Submission
                 of a Complete Application Changed the Rules of the Application Midstream

The vested rights rule aims to accomplish fairness in balancing public and private interests.16

It is well established that an owner of property holds the property subject to zoning ordinances
enacted pursuant to a state’s police power.17 LUDMA affords cities significant authority to
regulate land use by ordinance and zoning districts. Those zoning districts and the laws
governing land use within those districts changes from time to time according to the evolving
needs and desire of the area and larger community, and it is understood that a property owner
“has no vested right to ‘continuity of zoning.’”18

In light of changing public interests, the vested rights rule ensures some predictability to allow
property owners to be able to plan to develop property “in a manner permitted by existing zoning
regulations with some degree of assurance that the basic ground rules will not be changed in
midstream.”19 Prior to an application being submitted, a municipality’s legislative body will have
had enacted land use ordinances after weighing broad policy concerns. Once an application is
submitted to use land according to those regulations, the existing land use ordinances and


Caster v. W. Valley City, 2001 UT App 220, ¶ 6, 29 P.3d 22 (Using the disjunctive word “or,” rather than the
conjunctive word “and,” permitted mere storage or keeping of motor vehicles as a use under a statutory definition).
14
   Patterson v. Utah County Bd. of Adjustment, 893 P.2d 602, 606 (Utah Ct. App. 1995).
15
   “The canon of constitutional avoidance is an important tool for identifying and implementing legislative intent. Its
premise is a presumption that the legislature 'either prefers not to press the limits of the Constitution in its statutes,
or it prefers a narrowed (and constitutional) version of its statutes to a statute completely stricken' by the courts.”
Mike's Smoke, Cigar & Gifts, 2017 UT App at ¶ 20 (disjunctive reading of statute did not run afoul of constitutional
avoidance canon).
16
   Western Land Equities v. Logan, 617 P.2d 388, 391 (Utah 1980).
17
   Id. at 390-391 (citing Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U.S. 365, 71 L. Ed. 303, 47 S. Ct. 114 (1926)).
18
    Smith Inv. Co. v. Sandy City, 958 P.2d 245, 258 n.19 (Utah Ct. App. 1998) (quoting 1 KENNETH H. YOUNG,
ANDERSON’S LAW OF ZONING § 4.28, at 325, 327 (4th ed. 1996)).
19
   Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d 388 at 396.

Advisory Opinion – Recycled Earth LLC / Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 27, 2020 Page 9 of 11
development standards must be applied to the application. A municipality is not at liberty to
make land use decisions in derogation of its enacted ordinances.20 Therefore, it is incumbent on a
city “to act in good faith and not to reject an application because the application itself triggers
zoning reconsiderations that result in a substitution of the judgment of current city officials for
that of their predecessors.”21

When Recycled Earth applied for a conditional use permit in 2014, a waste transfer station was
listed as a conditional use within the M-2 zone, though prior to Recycled Earth’s application, no
waste transfer station actually existed in the M-2 zone, or anywhere else in Ogden City limits for
that matter. Waste transfer stations, by City definition, handle solid waste, which spans various
items and substances from household garbage to dead animals, to sludge and hazardous waste.22
Having enacted a zoning scheme that allowed waste transfer stations as conditional uses, Ogden
City had previously made the determination that this activity was, at least hypothetically,
desirable in the designated zone subject to reasonable conditions.

The City issued a violation notice in May 2018 and reminded Recycled Earth that the handling of
municipal solid waste was only allowed upon a conditional use permit for a waste transfer
station, and that the company’s October 2014 “conditional use permit application for a waste
transfer station” had never been approved. The City therefore seemed to fully acknowledge that
Recycled Earth’s unpermitted activity could be remedied with the approval of the conditional use
permit application that was already submitted.

Recycled Earth responded on May 31, 2018 that it had been unaware that approval had never
been granted, and wanted to finish processing the application as needed, but made clear that it
intended to include the handling of municipal waste as part of that approval, according to
changing business needs since the application had been submitted. Days later, on June 5, 2018,
Ogden City issued notice of pending legislation to remove waste transfer stations as a conditional
use in the M-2 zone.

Considering there existed no other waste transfer station within the City at the time, the City’s
move to eliminate waste transfer stations appears to be a clear attempt to stop Recycled Earth’s
request to handle municipal waste as part of its application to operate a waste transfer station,
perceivably based on a changed attitudes toward this use in the M-2 zone. Because Recycled
Earth’s 2014 application categorically was a request to operate a Waste Transfer Station, the
City’s subsequent move to introduce pending legislation to eliminate the use applied for changed
the rules of Recycled Earth’s application midstream. This was done in derogation of Recycled
Earth’s vested right to substantive review for the land use applied for under the applicable land
use regulations then in existence.

                                                     CONCLUSION

Recycled Earth submitted a complete land use application in 2014 to operate a waste transfer
station. Prior to substantive review, the City initiated pending legislation to change the land use

20
   Thurston v. Cache County, 626 P.2d 440, 444-45 (Utah 1981).
21
   Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d 388, at 396 (Utah 1980).
22
   OGDEN CITY CODE § 12-1-1 (Ord. 2002-73, 12-17-2002).

Advisory Opinion – Recycled Earth LLC / Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 27, 2020 Page 10 of 11
ordinance applicable to the application and wrongfully reviewed Recycled Earth’s application
under the new regulations. Recycled Earth is entitled to have its application substantively
reviewed under the land use ordinances in place at the time of the application, and applicable to
the application, which allowed waste transfer stations—including the handling of municipal
waste—as a conditional use in the M-2 zone.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Recycled Earth LLC / Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 27, 2020 Page 11 of 11
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in UTAH CODE § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:


                             Tracy Hansen, City Recorder
                             City of Ogden
                             2549 Washington Blvd, Suite 210
                             Ogden, Utah 84401


On this 28th Day of August, 2020, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
