                       Advisory Opinion 290
                                   Parties: Bob Theobald and Park City
                                             Issued: July 25, 2024

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                     Appealing Land Use Decisions


The party requesting an advisory opinion had standing under the city’s ordinances
to challenge a subdivision plat amendment because city ordinances allow for
appeals by anyone that submitted written comment in the proceedings. However,
the requesting party does not have standing under state statute to request an
advisory opinion regarding the city’s compliance in approving the subdivision
amendment because they are not a potentially aggrieved person in relation to this
particular decision.

The requesting party’s property does not adjoin the subject property, but they have
alleged that the planning commission’s decision will create a precedent for other
future decisions on more proximate properties within the same subdivision that
might have a more direct affect. Even assuming some alleged future harm to the
requesting party’s property, such harm is not traceable to this planning commission
decision and would not be redressable by a decision in the requesting party’s favor.



                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                           (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                        1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                             www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                 propertyrights@utah.gov
                             State of Utah
                             Department of Commerce
   SPENCER J. COX            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
      Governor
                             MARGARET W. BUSSE         JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON          Executive Director         Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION


         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                 Bob Theobald

         Local Government Entity:                       Park City

         Applicant for Land Use Approval:               Paul and Alaine Caraher

         Type of Property:                              Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 July 25, 2024

         Opinion Authored By:                           Richard B. Plehn, Attorney
                                                        Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                        ISSUE

         Did Park City properly approve a subdivision amendment to adjust platted lot restrictions?

                                          SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

         Park City approved a subdivision amendment to relocate platted building pad and driveway areas
         on the applicants’ residential lot to allow for development consistent with updated wetland
         setbacks. The party requesting this advisory opinion does not own property adjoining the
         applicant’s property, but lives in the approximate area and satisfies the City’s standing for local
         appeal for having provided written comment on the proposal. The requesting party appealed the
         City’s approval and requested this opinion upon the allegation that the planning commission failed
         to consider and properly interpret applicable plat restrictions, and that this error establishes a
         precedent for all of the lots in the same subdivision in how the same lot restrictions are interpreted
         on other lots, including other properties more proximate to this requesting party’s own property
         that could result in some alleged harm.

         Legal standing for a statutory claim or process, including a request for an advisory opinion, is
         limited to a party within the scope of those authorized by the terms of the statute. The Property
         Rights Ombudsman Act allows for an advisory opinion to be requested by a potentially aggrieved
         person, which requires a showing of a particularized injury that is traceable to the agency action
         and would be redressable by a decision in the requesting party’s favor.
While the requesting party was entitled to take advantage of the broader availability for local
appeal under the City’s process, the requesting party is not a potentially aggrieved person under
Utah statute afforded the right to request an advisory opinion regarding the planning commission’s
compliance with applicable law because such generalized alleged harms, even if assumed, are
hypothetical future harms that cannot be attributed to this planning commission decision, nor
would such harms be redressable by a decision in the party’s favor.

                                                       EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

1.     Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Bob Theobald, received May 9, 2024, and
supporting documentation;
2.     Phone call with Bob Theobald on May 20, 2024;
3.     Meeting with Sarah Hall and Paul and Alaine Caraher on May 23, 2024;
4.     Phone call with Mark Harrington, City Attorney for Park City, on June 13, 2024.

                                                    BACKGROUND

Bob Theobald is the owner of residential property in Park City located at 2810 Holiday Ranch
Loop Rd, which, according to Summit County records, is in the “Park Meadows No. 2”
subdivision, recorded in 1977, and has been improved with a single-family home since 1979.

The rear of Mr. Theobald’s lot backs up to real property that was originally subdivided in 1993 as
the Willow Ranch subdivision. Willow Ranch was approved as a seven-lot1 Master Planned
Development (MPD) recorded in 1993, and subject to certain covenants, conditions, and
restrictions (CC&Rs) and a governing community association.

According to Mr. Theobald, at the time of the creation of the Willow Ranch subdivision in 1993,
a significant portion of the land was considered “swampy,” and a large percentage of the property
was determined to be wetlands. Mr. Theobald asserts that at the time there was opposition to any
kind of residential development, and alleges that it was clear then and now that development of
any kind on the property would have adverse impacts on the surrounding neighborhoods, which
includes his property. The Willow Ranch Subdivision plat identified specific locations on each
lot for “House Building Pad,” a “Barn Building Pad,” and a “Driveway Easement” as well as a
reference to “Limits of Disturbance.” These locations were identified to preserve wetland areas
identified by the Army Corps of Engineers.

In 2021, the City approved a replat of Willow Ranch “Lot 2.” Mr. Theobald’s property almost
entirely shares its rear property line with Lot 2, and has since been in litigation with the City and
owners of Lot 2 regarding the City’s approval of an amended building permit. Additionally, in
2022, the Willow Ranch CC&R’s were amended, and according to Mr. Theobald, deleted several
1
    The subdivision contained seven residential lots, lots 1-7, as well as “Lot A,” designated as open space.

Advisory Opinion – Theobald / Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 25, 2024, Page 2 of 7
elements, including definitions, that Mr. Theobald alleges relates to limits of disturbance and other
development restrictions.

Paul and Alaine Caraher (the “Carahers”) are the owners of what was originally “Lot 6” of the
Willow Ranch subdivision.2 The Carahers applied for a subdivision amendment to relocate the
platted building pad and driveway easements on the property because an updated Army Corp
wetland determination showed that these plat restrictions, as originally implemented, now
encroached on updated wetland setbacks.

The planning commission found there was good cause for the subdivision amendment and
approved the application with certain conditions, and made several findings of fact and conclusions
of law in support of its decision. Mr. Theobald’s property does not adjoin the Carahers’ property,
but he did provide written comment in opposition to the proposal during planning commission
proceedings. Mr. Theobald appealed the approval of the subdivision amendment alleging that the
City had incorrectly applied applicable Sensitive Land Overlay requirements regarding wetlands
and ignored the 1993 Army Corps wetland determination, and improperly relied on the 2022
amended CC&R’s and ignored or misinterpreted the 1993 CC&R’s.

Mr. Theobald’s concern is that the planning commission’s findings as to what applicability these
initial CC&R’s and wetland determinations from 1993 have on the Carahers’ property would apply
to other Willow Ranch lots and creates a precedent for the planning commission in how it might
review future subdivision amendment applications from other Willow Ranch properties, including
Lot 2 as his shared-boundary neighbor.

                                                       ANALYSIS

Mr. Theobald requested this advisory opinion to determine whether the decision of Park City’s
planning commission complied with applicable law in its approval of the proposed subdivision
amendment and filed this request in conjunction with his appeal of that decision to Park City’s
board of appeals. At the time the request for an advisory opinion was received, the City had already
accepted his appeal and the City’s Appeal Panel had heard Mr. Theobald’s appeal, but had not yet
issued a written decision.3

On those facts, the Office accepted Mr. Theobald’s request as potentially within the scope of
authority for an advisory opinion based on his allegations that the planning commission did not
comply with city ordinances in approving the plat amendment and that the decision would affect
him and his property. However, upon further review of the information provided, we have
concluded that Mr. Theobald has not shown any particularized harm that would give him standing
as a potentially aggrieved person authorized to request an advisory opinion under Utah statute.
Given, however, that Mr. Theobald’s primary reason for requesting the advisory opinion was the
2
  Willow Ranch Lot 6 was replatted in 1996 as a two-lot “Smith Subdivision,” but is still subject to the same CC&R’s
as the other Willow Ranch lots.
3
  Utah code provides that an advisory opinion may be requested “at any time before . . . a final decision on a land use
application by a local appeal authority under . . . Section 10-9a-708.” UTAH CODE § 13-43-205(1)(b). Section 10-9a-
708 provides that a written decision constitutes a final decision, so it has been the view of this Office that requests for
an advisory opinion may still be filed after an appeal authority has verbally expressed a decision during an appeal
hearing, so long as it has not yet issued a written decision.

Advisory Opinion – Theobald / Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 25, 2024, Page 3 of 7
alleged concern that the planning commission’s decision works to negatively affect his property,
we note that our analysis on standing also largely addresses that issue raised by Mr. Theobald and
concludes to the contrary, and we therefore provide the following opinion.

     I.          Standing to Request an Advisory Opinion Requires Particularized Injury

Standing is a jurisdictional requirement that must be satisfied before a particular party may make
some legal claim, whether in an administrative process or a judicial setting – “The issue of standing
requires . . . focus on whether the parties have both a sufficient interest in the subject matter of the
dispute and a sufficient adverseness so that the issues can be properly explored. Specht v. Big Water
Town, 2007 UT App 335, ¶ 8.

Park City’s Land Management Code (LMC) provides standing to appeal a planning commission
decision to anyone who submitted written comment or testified on a proposal before the planning
commission, or who owns property within 300 feet of the subject site. LMC § 15-1-18(D). This is
arguably a much broader pool for party standing than what state law provides for judicial review
of a land use decision after final decision of the appeal authority, where applicable. See, UTAH
CODE § 10-9a-801 (petition for judicial review of a land use decision may be filed by either a “land
use applicant or adversely affected party”4).

The City’s choice to enact ordinances that provide additional appeal rights for local appeal of a
land use decision to certain persons beyond those addressed in LUDMA is not inconsistent with
state law. See id. §§ 10-9a-104 (LUDMA does not prohibit a municipality from adopting the
municipality’s own land use standards); 10-9a-706 (each appeal authority is to conduct each appeal
as provided in local ordinance and must respect the due process rights of each of the participants).
However, such localized standing for city appeal purposes does not speak to what rights or other
kinds of statutory remedies are available to that party under state law. See, generally, Northern
Monticello All., LLC v. San Juan Cty, 2020 UT 10 (adversely affected third party’s right to appeal
a discretionary planning commission decision not to revoke a conditional use permit was purely
procedural and not a creation of due process rights that entitled the third party to participate in the
planning commission hearing where the decision was made).

When a person is asserting a statutory claim, they must have statutory standing as a party within
the scope of those authorized by the legislature to seek such review under the plain terms of the
statute, otherwise, that claim may not proceed. See, McKitrick v. Gibson, 2021 UT 48, ¶ 16.

The Property Rights Ombudsman Act, UTAH CODE § 13-43-101 et seq, is the state statute that
provides for the advisory opinion process, which is a form of alternative dispute resolution –
referred to as a “quasi-mediation tool”5 – that exists apart from a person’s administrative remedy
under local ordinance or other legal remedy in Utah courts. To request an advisory opinion from
this office, a party must be either (1) a local government, (2) a private entity, or (3) a potentially
aggrieved person. UTAH CODE § 13-43-205. As Mr. Theobald is neither a local government nor a

4
  LUDMA defines “adversely affected party” as a person other than the land use applicant who (1) owns property
adjoining the subject site, or, (2) “will suffer a damage different in kind than, or an injury distinct from, that of the
general community as a result of the land use decision.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-103(2).
5
  Checketts v. Providence City, 2018 UT App 48, ¶ 28.

Advisory Opinion – Theobald / Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 25, 2024, Page 4 of 7
directly involved private entity, he must meet the eligibility requirements as a “potentially
aggrieved person.”

While neither “potentially aggrieved” nor “aggrieved” are defined by the Property Rights
Ombudsman Act, the Utah Supreme Court has on several occasions interpreted the meaning of
“aggrieved” found in other Utah statutes that likewise pertain to standing requirements for certain
legal challenges. In every instance, the term “aggrieved” has been defined as consistent with the
requirements for traditional legal standing in Utah courts,6 which requires that a plaintiff show a
particularized injury—which means that the complainant must suffer “special injury different in
kind to the public in general,” Specht, 2017 UT App 75, ¶ 52, and which must also be traceable to
the agency action and redressable by a decision in the claimant’s favor. See, Friends of Great Salt
Lake v. Utah Dep't of Nat. Res., 2017 UT 15, ¶ 43 (internal citations omitted).7

Therefore, Mr. Theobald must demonstrate that he can potentially establish a particularized injury
or special damages have occurred by the planning commission’s approval of the Caraher
subdivision amendment. The alleged harms must show the potential of differing in kind or being
substantially more than the injury to the general community, and be traceable to this particular
planning commission decision and would otherwise be redressable by a decision in his favor. We
do not see any potential aggrievance in the facts here.

     II.         Speculative harm resulting from some future land use decision is not traceable to
                 this planning commission action nor redressable by a favorable decision.

Mr. Theobald argues that the Planning Commission erred in approving the subdivision amendment
because it failed to “consider and understand with certainty all applicable laws” pertaining to these
lots – namely, (1) the 1993 CC&Rs referenced in the MPD conditions of approval, the critical
elements of which Mr. Theobald alleges were deleted by a 2022 amended CC&R’s, and (2) the
1993 Army Corp wetland delineations.

Internal lot restrictions are platted notes, platted demarcations, or platted designations that run with
the land and create a restriction or designate a development condition that are enclosed within the
perimeter of a lot described on the plat. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-103(28). Internal lot restrictions
imposed on a lot may be adjusted or even vacated by a subdivision plat amendment. See, id. § 10-
9a-608(2)(a)(iv). A subdivision amendment does not replace the entire subdivision plat but is
6
  In one such similar statute, the Utah Supreme Court reasoned that “one is not necessarily ‘aggrieved’ within the
meaning of [the statute] simply by virtue of having protested [an application] that was approved. The commonly
understood meaning of the term ‘aggrieved’ is consistent with our traditional standing requirement that a plaintiff
show particularized injury.” Wash. Cty. Water Conservancy Dist. v. Morgan, 2003 UT 58, ¶ 14.
7
  Having defined the term “aggrieved,” we note that language under the Property Rights Ombudsman Act is actually
“potentially aggrieved.” UTAH CODE § 13-43-205(1) (emphasis added). This standard can then be appropriately
broadened to account for parties potentially demonstrating such aggrieved status. “Potential” is an adverb meaning
“with the inherent capacity for coming into being.” BLACK’S LAW DICTIONARY (10th ed. 2014). It describes something
that could happen or might be true. Considering the pre-litigation realm of the Advisory Opinion as a “quasi-mediation
tool” which may be requested “at any time before” the exhaustion of administrative remedies, or, ultimately the
“deadline for filing an appeal with the district court,” UTAH CODE § 13-43-205(1)(b), we believe the addition of the
term “potentially” to the aggrieved party requirement is a proper characterization of the disputes that, if continue
unresolved by the parties through the advisory opinion process, have the potential to mature into justiciable claims.


Advisory Opinion – Theobald / Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 25, 2024, Page 5 of 7
limited to only the portion of the subdivision that is proposed to be amended. Id. § 10-9a-
608(1)(b)(i). Assuming a proposed plat amendment complies with all applicable land use
regulations, the land use authority may approve a plat amendment if it finds that there is good
cause for the amendment, and necessarily is entitled to some discretion as to determining what
constitutes good cause. Six Blue Bison LLC v. Alpine City, 2023 UT App 89, ¶ 24.

Without providing any opinion on the substance of Mr. Theobald’s claim, in order to determine
whether a particularized injury has resulted to Mr. Theobald as a result of the planning
commission’s decision, we note that even if Mr. Theobald’s assertions regarding the applicability
of certain alleged restrictions on the property were accepted as true, the planning commission’s
decision to approve the Carahers’ subdivision amendment results in no immediately discernable
harm or injury to Mr. Theobald, who appears to assume that an erroneous decision would create a
“precedent” for future land use decisions that have the potential to more directly affect his property.
That is not necessarily the case.

First, as to any allegation that the Carahers’ proposal actively failed to comply with applicable land
use regulations, a prior mistaken decision does not have the effect of binding future land use
decisions to somehow require further violations. The prior practice of the planning commission,
whether correct or incorrect, is not a consideration in determining whether a current land use
application is entitled to approval.8 In considering any land use application, the land use authority
is to “apply the plain language of land use regulations,” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-306(1), and is “bound
by the terms and standards of applicable land use regulations and shall comply with the mandatory
provisions of those regulations.” Id. § 10-9a-509(2).

Beyond this, assuming the proposal does not fail to comply with applicable regulations, it would
not be improper for the planning commission to at least consider prior subdivision amendments in
determining whether “good cause” exists for a future subdivision amendment on another property.
Realistically, however, a prior approval would not be the only consideration in making some future
decision.

As such, even assuming the planning commission’s current decision to approve the Caraher
subdivision amendment were used as the reason in the future to find “good cause” to support some
future plat amendment, it would be a stretch to consider the hypothetical harm to Mr. Theobald
resulting from some such future land use decision as traceable to this planning commission
decision, as opposed to being more appropriately attributed to the hypothetical future decision.
Each land use decision, as well as a challenge to that decision, must stand on its own merits.

Moreover, considering that lack of connection between this current decision and any
considerations the planning commission would make in some future decision, it also follows that

8
  Administrative officials may not forfeit the City’s power of enforcement to correctly apply its ordinance due to some
prior disregard of an ordinance by administrative officials. See, Alta v. Ben Hame Corp., 836 P.2d 797, 801 (Utah Ct.
App. 1992). “The custom or practice of certain [administrative] officials not to enforce [an ordinance] does not
necessarily mirror the intent of the legislative body in enacting the zoning ordinance with the language now under
scrutiny.” Id. In all cases, then, the administrative land use authority must do nothing other than to “apply the plain
language” of its ordinances.


Advisory Opinion – Theobald / Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 25, 2024, Page 6 of 7
any alleged possible future harm to Mr. Theobald by future decisions would not be redressable
were the planning commission to reverse its current decision in Mr. Theobald’s favor. Just as an
incorrect decision creates no precedent for future decisions, nor would a decision favorable to Mr.
Theobald in this instance have any effect of preventing some alleged harm resulting from the
planning commission’s exercise of its discretion to approve a subdivision amendment in the future.

Should Mr. Theobald, in fact, be aggrieved by some future land use decision as suffering a special
injury different in kind to the public in general, that would be the appropriate time, and decision,
to challenge through appeal. Without that particularized injury here, however, state law does not
recognize a sufficient interest of Mr. Theobald’s in the subject matter of the dispute and a sufficient
adverseness in order to address the issues through the avenue of an advisory opinion.

                                            CONCLUSION

Based on the information provided, while City ordinances allowed Mr. Theobald to appeal the
planning commission’s approval of a subdivision amendment on nearby property solely due to his
having provided written comment in the proceedings, he otherwise lacks statutory standing to
request an Advisory Opinion as to whether the planning commission erred in its decision. Mr.
Theobald’s request appears to have been made to address the concern of whether the planning
commission’s decision, were it to be in error, would have any negative effect on his property. The
analysis to determine whether Mr. Theobald meets statutory standing also answers this question,
in that the planning commission’s decision, even if it were to have been made in error, has no
binding effect on any future land use decision that could arguably result in harm to Mr. Theobald’s
property. As such, any alleged future harm is not traceable to the current planning commission
decision, nor would be redressable by a decision in his favor.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Theobald / Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 25, 2024, Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based
on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of the author’s
understanding of the relevant law, the author does not represent anyone involved in this
matter. Anyone with an interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the
advice of his or her own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement
of how to protect or advance his or her interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty and consequential damages may also be available if the court finds that the opposing
party—if either a land use applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally
violated the law governing that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are
also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
