                       Advisory Opinion 299
                         Parties: Virgin Property Rights Coalition, LLC / Virgin
                                   Town Issued: December 13, 2024


                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                        Entitlement to Application Approval (Vested Rights)
                              Requirements Imposed on Development



Lot owners vest in the zoning regulations governing short-term rentals that were in
effect at the time the subdivision plat application was submitted. Utah law directly
addresses this issue for the relevant time period. Utah legislators passed and then
repealed the following year a statute which “freezes” land use regulations in place
for ten years following recording of the final plat.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                           (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                        1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor               MARGARET W. BUSSE         JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                             Executive Director         Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION

         Advisory Opinion Requested by:                John Huber

         Local Government Entity:                      Town of Virgin

         Property Owner:                               Virgin Property Rights Coalition LLC

         Type of Property:                             Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                December 13, 2024

         Opinion Authored By:                          Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                        Issue

         Are the lot owners vested in the zoning regulations governing short-term rentals that were in effect
         at the time the subdivision plat application was submitted?

                                          Summary of Advisory Opinion

         A developer secured approval for a residential subdivision development designed to take
         advantage of the favorable short-term rental regulations in place at the time the application was
         submitted. Buyers paid a premium for the lots to build homes which would sleep 16 to 56 people.
         During the subdivision approval process, the planned use was discussed at length with the town,
         and certain accommodations were built into the project in anticipation of the proposed large-
         occupancy, short-term rental use. However, after the final plat was approved and recorded, and
         some of the lots sold, the town adopted a new zoning ordinance which restricts short-term rentals
         to 3,500 square feet, 5 bedrooms, and a maximum of 10 occupants.

         Lot owners claim that the new ordinance should not apply to them because they have vested rights
         in the laws that were in effect a the time the preliminary plat application was submitted. Utah’s
         vesting statute provides an entitlement to be reviewed under the land use regulations in effect at
         the time of a particular application – these regulations include both local ordinance and applicable
         state statutes.

         Utah law directly addresses this issue for the relevant time period. Utah legislators passed and then
         repealed the following year a statute which “freezes” land use regulations in place for ten years
         following recording of a final plat. Under Utah Code Section 10-9a-509(4)(a) (2021),
municipalities are prohibited from applying new land use regulations to building permit
applications for single-family dwellings within a subdivision for ten years after the subdivision
plat is recorded.

The subdivision plat application in question was submitted while this freeze was in effect, and the
freeze applies throughout the plat review and approval process, including through to the recording
of the final plat. Therefore, subsequent land use regulation changes, including those recently
passed restricting short-term rentals, will not apply to the development in question, and may not
be imposed on new construction within the identified ten-year period. Moreover, once the ten-year
period has elapsed, then-existing short-term rentals would continue to be protected by legal non-
conforming rights.

                                                                     Evidence

The following document and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:
       1. Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by John Huber on behalf of Virgin Property
          Rights Coalition, LLC, received March 7, 2024 with attachments.

                                                                    Background
The following background information has been provided by the lot owners. The Town did not
respond to the request for an advisory opinion, and as such, we are left to view these alleged facts
as undisputed.

On April 27, 2022, John and Jeff Staples (Developer) submitted a preliminary subdivision plat
application (Plat Application) to the Town of Virgin (Town) for a residential real estate project (the
Subdivision). The property was and is zoned “Rural Residential with Short Term Rental Overlay,”
and the proposed project was designed to take advantage of the existing overlay ordinance which
at that time did not impose limits on the size of homes, number of bedrooms, or occupancy for
short-term rentals.

Lot purchasers reportedly paid a significant premium of $150,000-250,000 per lot, compared to
neighboring lots that had short-term rental restrictions. Throughout the plat approval process, the
Developer clearly indicated to the Town their intention to sell larger lots (1 to 1.75 acres) at higher
values, allowing the construction of very large homes intended to benefit from favorable short-
term rental ordinances. Many lot purchasers engaged builders and architects to design homes
capable of accommodating 16 to 56 occupants.

The planned use as large-scale short-term rentals was apparently discussed at length at multiple
public meetings and the Developer reports working extensively with the Town throughout the
approval process. As evidence, the Developer cites a statement made during the July 27, 2022,
Town Council meeting, where a council member clarified that all homes would include fire
suppression sprinkler systems, as required by the Hurricane Valley Fire Authority for homes used
as short-term rentals that exceed ten occupants. Consequently, Note 7 of the approved final plat
mandates the installation of a 13D automatic sprinkler system for each home. Furthermore, the
Town Council addressed parking requirements and settled on a stipulation for three off-street

Advisory Opinion – Virgin Property Rights Coalition / Virgin Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 13, 2024 Page 2 of 7
parking spaces for homes with more than four bedrooms. As discussed with the Town, this
requirement was incorporated into the CC&Rs (Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions) for the
Subdivision.

The Subdivision Plat Application was approved, and on March 14, 2023, the final plat and CC&Rs
were recorded with the county recorder. At the time of submission, and throughout the approval
process, including the recordation of the final plat, the Town had no restrictions on the size, number
of bedrooms, or occupancy of short-term rental homes in the development.

However, later in 2023, the Town began discussing limitations on occupants and the number of
bedrooms within the short-term rental overlay zone. On September 14, 2023, the Town Council
held a public meeting to discuss the proposed changes, which were formally adopted on January
16, 2024. The new ordinance restricts short-term rentals to a maximum of 3,500 square feet, 5
bedrooms, and 10 occupants. These new limitations directly contradict the use the Developer and
purchasers had envisioned, as extensively discussed with the Town.

For reasons not clarified in the record, the Town subsequently re-adopted these changes as an
Emergency Land Use Regulation on February 1, 2024.

The Developer has alleged that both the initial enactment of the Town’s new short-term rental
ordinance, and the subsequent emergency ordinance re-adopting those regulations, are both invalid
because they were enacted without proper notice, and that the lots are vested as to the Town’s
short-term rental regulations that existed at the time the subdivision application was submitted and
approved.

An additional legal consideration is relevant to this case: in 2021, House Bill 409 was passed,
freezing land use regulations for a period of ten years after the final plat was recorded. This law
took effect on May 5, 2021, but was repealed the following year with the passage of House Bill
303, effective May 4, 2022. The Subdivision Preliminary Plat Application was submitted while
this protective law was in effect.

Relevant dates:
      Date                                  Action                                      Why Significant
 5 May 2021                    H.B. 409(2021) goes                  Restriction imposed: Municipalities are prohibited from
                               into effect                          imposing new land use regulations on single-family
                                                                    building permit applications for ten years following the
                                                                    recordation of the final plat.

 27 Apr 2022                   Preliminary Plat                     Application vests: The Preliminary Plat application is
                               application submitted                subject to the land use regulations in effect on this date,
                                                                    per UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(i). This entitled the
                                                                    applicant to have an application reviewed and approved
                                                                    under the laws and ordinances then in effect, preventing
                                                                    retroactive application of any new ordinances after this
                                                                    date.




Advisory Opinion – Virgin Property Rights Coalition / Virgin Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 13, 2024 Page 3 of 7
    4 May 2022                 H.B. 303(2022) goes                  Restriction removed: Municipalities are no longer
                               into effect.                         prohibited from imposing new land use regulations on
                                                                    building permit applications for ten years following the
                                                                    final plat recording.

    14 Mar 2023                Final Plat and CC&Rs                 Land use regulation freeze: H.B. 409 (2021) which was
                               recorded                             in effect when the Plat Application was submitted
                                                                    prevents new land use regulations from applying to
                                                                    building permits for ten years following final plat
                                                                    recordation.

    24 July 2023               Public notice:                       New regulations under discussion: Land use
                               discussions to change                applications submitted after this date are subject to any
                               short-term rental                    new regulations regarding short-term rentals adopted
                               ordinances                           within 180 days of initiating changes (per UTAH CODE §
                                                                    10-9a-509(1)(a)(ii)(B).1

    16 Jan 2024                Town Council adopts                  New restrictions adopted: The ordinance limits short-
                               new short-term rental                term rentals to 3,500 square feet, 5 bedrooms, and 10
                               ordinance                            occupants.

    14 Feb 2024                Town Council adopts                  Retroactive application: This emergency adoption
                               new short-term rental                makes the new restrictions applicable to all land use
                               ordinance again as                   applications under review, not just those submitted after
                               Emergency Land Use                   July 24, 2023.
                               Regulation.

The Developer has requested this Advisory Opinion to answer whether the Town can lawfully
impose the amended short-term rental ordinance restrictions on development within the
Subdivision, given allegations that the ordinance was not properly noticed and that the Plat
Application vests in the laws in effect at the time of submission.

                                                                    Analysis

This Advisory Opinion request asks whether the recently adopted short-term rental restrictions
were validly enacted and apply to building permits and the subsequent use of homes within the
Subdivision. Utah law establishes that the Subdivision Plat Application vests in the laws in effect
at the time of submission. The central issue is whether subsequent building permits for homes
within the Subdivision and ultimate short-term rental use is likewise vested in those laws.



1
  Information provided from the Developer indicates that the Town Council first discussed amending the short-term
rental ordinance on September 14, 2023. However, the pending ordinance statute starts the clock not when Town
Council first hears the matter, but rather when “in the manner provided by local ordinance and before the applicant
submits the application, the municipality formally initiates proceedings to amend the municipality’s land use
regulations in a manner that would prohibit approval of the application as submitted.” UTAH CODE §10-9a-
509(1)(a)(ii)(B). Therefore, arguably, the pending ordinance triggered when the issue was first noticed for
consideration by the Virgin Town Planning and Zoning Commission. This Planning Commission meeting was held on
August 9, 2023, but noticed, and therefore initiated, on July 24, 2023.

Advisory Opinion – Virgin Property Rights Coalition / Virgin Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 13, 2024 Page 4 of 7
Where no response was received from the Town, the issue of whether the short-term rental
ordinance and emergency ordinance were properly noticed and enacted is not fully briefed. As a
result, we do not have enough information to provide a sufficiently thorough and informed opinion
on these allegations.

Fortunately, however, as to the underlying question of whether these subdivided lots are vested as
to the Town’s existing short-term rental regulations, Utah law directly addresses this question.
Specifically, for the period between May 5, 2021, to May 4, 2022, state law prohibited
municipalities from imposing new land use regulations on building permit applications for a period
of ten years following the recording of the final subdivision plat. This restriction was enacted as
part of House Bill 409 (2021) at lines 689 – 694 which reads in relevant part:

            “. . . for a period of 10 years after the day on which a subdivision plat is recorded,
            a municipality may not impose on a building permit applicant for a single-family
            dwelling located within the subdivision any land use regulation that is enacted
            within 10 years after the day on which the subdivision plat is recorded.”2

House Bill 409 (2021) became effective May 5, 2021; however, this restriction was repealed the
following year with the passage of House Bill 303 (2022) at lines 749 - 754. House Bill 303 (2022)
became effective May 4, 2022, and deleted the protective language entirely. Accordingly, for the
period between May 5, 2021, and May 4, 2022, state law prohibited municipalities from imposing
new land use regulations, for a period of ten years following recordation, on building permit
applications for single-family dwellings within subdivisions which vested in laws in place during
this restricted period.

In the present case, the Subdivision Plat Application was submitted April 17, 2022. The
Subdivision Plat vests in the laws in place when the Application was submitted pursuant to UTAH
CODE §10-9a-509(a) which states:

            An applicant who has submitted a complete land use application . . . is entitled to
            substantive review of the application under the land use regulations: (A) in effect
            on the date that the application is complete; and (B) applicable to the application
            or to the information shown on the application.

            (ii)   An applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the
            application conforms to the requirements of the applicable land use regulations,
            land use decisions, and development standards in effect when the applicant submits
            a complete application and pays application fees. . .

Thus, the laws in effect at the time of submission govern the review and approval of the
Subdivision Plat. Recording the subdivision is the final step of the subdivision approval process




2
  These restrictions do not apply to any changes in the requirements of the applicable building code, health code, or
fire code, or other similar regulations. Id.

Advisory Opinion – Virgin Property Rights Coalition / Virgin Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 13, 2024 Page 5 of 7
therefore, the vested entitlements that accompanied the approved subdivision enjoy continued
validity at the time of recordation.3

At the time the Subdivision Plat Application was submitted, those laws included the language of
House Bill 404 (2021), which amended UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(4)(a) (2021) to provide that for
a period of ten years after the recording of the subdivision plat, municipalities may not impose any
land use regulations on building permit applicants for single-family dwellings within the
subdivision that were enacted after the plat was recorded.

We note that while the ten-year freeze was in effect when the Subdivision Plat Application was
submitted on April 17, 2022, it was no longer in effect when the final plat was recorded on March
14, 2023. Regardless, the application vests in the laws in place at the time of submission, not at
the time of plat recording. The reference to “ten years from recording the final plat” simply
establishes the duration during which municipalities are restricted from applying new land use
regulations.

As the final plat was recorded on March 14, 2023, the Town may not lawfully apply any new land
use regulations until ten years after the recording of the final plat, or March 14, 2033. For clarity,
note that at the conclusion of the ten-year freeze, homes that are built and occupied as large-scale
short-term rentals will be recognized as legal non-complying structures and legal non-conforming
uses and the use may continue in accordance with state law. See UTAH CODE § 10-9a-511.The
definition of “land use regulation” in Utah law reads:

            “Land use regulation”: (a) means a legislative decision enacted by ordinance, law,
            code, map, resolution, specification, fee, or rule that governs the use or
            development of land; (b) includes the adoption or amendment of a zoning map or
            the text of the zoning code.

UTAH CODE §10-9a-103(34). The modifications to the ordinances governing short-term rentals
constitute an amendment to the zoning code and, therefore, qualify as a land use regulation subject
to the ten-year freeze.

Because the issues are resolved directly by state law in effect when the Plat Application was
submitted, the questions of whether the Town’s subsequent ordinances were validly enacted is not
directly relevant to resolution of this dispute, as they cannot be applied to this subdivision, even if
validly enacted. We will therefore forgo further analysis of these allegations by the developer.

In summary, because the Subdivision Plat Application was submitted during the one-year period
where state law “froze” land use regulations, the Town may not apply new land use regulations to
building permits within the Subdivision for a period of ten years after the final plat was recorded.
This prohibition includes the newly adopted short-term rental restrictions, regardless of whether
they were validly enacted. Therefore, the Town may only impose land use regulations on


3
  This presumes that the developer has proceeded after subdivision approval to “implement the approval with
reasonable diligence” by recording the plat, the vested entitlements that accompanied the approved subdivision enjoy
continued validity at the time of recordation. See, Utah Code 10-9a-509(1)(f) (continued validity of approval
conditioned on implementing the approval with reasonable diligence).

Advisory Opinion – Virgin Property Rights Coalition / Virgin Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 13, 2024 Page 6 of 7
development within the Subdivision in effect at the time the application was submitted, for a ten-
year period from when the final plat was recorded.

                                                                    Conclusion

The applicable subdivision plat application was submitted during the one-year period where state
law “froze” land use regulations, therefore, the town may not apply new land use regulations to
building permits within the subdivision for a period of ten years after the final plat was recorded.
This prohibition would include the newly adopted short-term rental restrictions within that ten-
year window. Therefore, the Town may only impose land use regulations on development within
the Subdivision in effect at the time the application was submitted, for a ten-year period from when
the final plat was recorded.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Virgin Property Rights Coalition / Virgin Town
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 13, 2024 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:
This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not constitute
legal advice and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of Utah
or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a summary
review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter and may or may not reflect the
opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and circumstances are
different or where the relevant law may have changed.
While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.
An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.
Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in § 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are also
designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
