                     Advisory Opinion #226

                                Parties: Sean Reddish and Hurricane City

                                            Issued: July 31, 2020


                                             TOPIC CATEGORY:

                                        Exactions on Development


An exaction on development is lawful insofar as the burden imposed on development is
roughly proportionate, or roughly equivalent, to its impact. Where a property abuts two
streets as a corner lot, an exaction requiring installation of improvements along both
streets according to generally applicable ordinances is roughly equivalent to the
property’s impact due to its unique character as a corner lot. Exactions may take several
forms and address different aspects of development impact. Where multiple exactions
are assessed on a single development, the cumulative effect of the developer’s cost
does not amount to a taking so long as each exaction independently satisfies
constitutional requirements. A municipality’s development standards may reasonably
determine the respective impact and cost of development and may differ from other
localities, effectively making development in some areas more expensive than in others.
When total development costs become prohibitive to a single developer for a proposed
development, it does not automatically amount to a taking insofar as the costs continue
to proportionately address impact in the aggregate.


                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            CHRIS PARKER             JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director       Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION


        Advisory Opinion Requested By:                  Sean Reddish

        Local Government Entity:                        Hurricane City

        Type of Property:                               Residential

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:                  July 31, 2020

        Opinion Authored By:                            Richard B. Plehn, Attorney
                                                        Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                         ISSUE

        Was an exaction excessive where a developer of a subdivision was required to dedicate land and
        install right-of-way improvements for two roads abutting a corner lot? Can the cumulative effect
        of several exactions applicable to a single development amount to an unlawful taking?

                                             SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

        An exaction on development is lawful insofar as the burden imposed on development is roughly
        proportionate, or roughly equivalent, to its impact. Where a property abuts two streets as a corner
        lot, an exaction requiring installation of improvements along both streets according to generally
        applicable ordinances is roughly equivalent to the property’s impact due to its unique character
        as a corner lot. Exactions may take several forms and address different aspects of development
        impact. Where multiple exactions are assessed on a single development, the cumulative effect of
        the developer’s cost does not amount to a taking so long as each exaction independently satisfies
        constitutional requirements. A municipality’s development standards may reasonably determine
        the respective impact and cost of development and may differ from other localities, effectively
        making development in some areas more expensive than in others. When total development costs
        become prohibitive to a single developer for a proposed development, it does not automatically
        amount to a taking insofar as the costs continue to proportionately address impact in the
        aggregate.
                                                REVIEW

A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Title 13, Chapter 43, Section
205 of the Utah Code. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty
to exhaust administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a
land use application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an
issue. It is hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a
fair and neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as
explained at the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving
such issues in the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Sean Reddish on October 28, 2019. A
copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Kaden DeMille, Hurricane City Recorder, 147
North 870 West Hurricane, Utah 84737 on October 31, 2019.

                                               EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

      1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Sean Reddish, received October 28,
         2019.
      2. Email from Clark R. Fawcett, Hurricane City Manager, and attached letter from Arthur
         O. LeBaron, Hurricane City Engineer, received November 18, 2019.
      3. Email from Sean Reddish, received May 19, 2020.
      4. Telephone conversation with Sean Reddish June 16, 2020.
      5. Telephone conversation with Clark Fawcett June 16, 2020.
      6. Email from Arthur LeBaron, received June 17, 2020, together with attachment Figure No.
         1 - Horrocks Engineers, City of Hurricane Minor Collector Cross Section.

                                              BACKGROUND

Sean Reddish owns five acres of property in Hurricane City, bordered by two existing streets,
650 South to the north, and 920 West to the west. These existing streets are paved, but
unimproved as to curb, gutter, planter strip and sidewalk. Mr. Reddish applied to subdivide his
five-acre parcel in order to build a personal residence on the southernmost two acres and develop
three additional lots for the remaining three acres to the north, with each new parcel facing out to
and having access on 920 West. The northern corner lot faces out on 920 West but is bordered to
the north by 650 South for that length of the parcel.

Hurricane City Code contains development standards for roads and right-of-way. 650 South and
920 West are both designated as Minor Collector streets consisting of a 60-foot right-of-way
divided into designated parts for vehicle travel, shoulder, park strip, and sidewalk. The City
conditioned the subdivision approval on an exaction on both streets of mandatory dedication of
land to sufficiently widen the half-width abutting his property to comply with city standards, and

Advisory Opinion – Reddish / Hurricane City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2020 Page 2 of 10
required installation of curb, gutter, planter strip and sidewalk on his respective half of each
street for the length that borders the property. The road improvements included relocating
existing electrical services underground for a certain portion along the property frontage. In
addition to dedication and required improvements, Mr. Reddish was also required to pay all
impact fees applicable to new development. Mr. Reddish disputes the exaction of land and
installation of approximately 338’ of curb, gutter, planter strip and sidewalk on 650 South only,
which borders the frontage of the northernmost corner lot. Mr. Reddish also feels the cumulative
burden of improvements, dedication, and impact fees combined is excessive.

Mr. Reddish submitted a request for an Advisory Opinion to address whether the totality of the
City’s requirements amount to an illegal exaction.1

                                                     ANALYSIS

      I.          Exactions Must Pass the Rough Proportionality Test to be Constitutional

Development exactions are required contributions to a governmental entity imposed as a
condition precedent to approving the developer's project, and may take the form of: (1)
mandatory dedication of land for roads, schools or parks, as a condition to plat approval, (2)
fees-in-lieu of mandatory dedication, (3) water or sewage connection fees, and (4) impact fees.2

Exactions arise from the principle that development causes impacts to a community.
Development exactions are legal and appropriate only if they are “roughly proportionate” to the
impact the development creates—this principle governing exactions is derived from the U.S.
Supreme Court’s landmark decisions in Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n,3 and Dolan v.
City of Tigard,4 wherefrom the resulting legal analysis is termed the “rough proportionality test,”
that has been codified in Utah law as follows:

            A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in
            a land use application . . ., if:
                    (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
                    each exaction; and,
                    (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
                    impact of the proposed development.5

While no precise mathematical calculation is required, a City must make some sort of
individualized determination that the required dedication is related both in nature and extent to
the impact of the proposed development.6


1
  Mr. Reddish’s request, as originally submitted, additionally asked that the opinion address an exaction regarding
the water main. That issue, however, was resolved by the parties prior to the issuance of this opinion, and that matter
will not be addressed in this opinion.
2
  B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake Cty. (BAM I), 2006 UT 2, ¶ 34.
3
  483 U.S. 825 (1987).
4
  512 U.S 374 (1994).
5
  UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-508(1).
6
  BAM I, 2006 UT 2, ¶ 39. (citing Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391-92).
Advisory Opinion – Reddish / Hurricane City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2020 Page 3 of 10
In a series of related opinions known as the “BAM” cases dealing with an exaction of land
dedication for road expansion, Utah appellate courts have further explained the rough
proportionality test as found in Utah code.7

The Utah Supreme Court clarified that while the U.S. Supreme Court used the term roughly
proportionate, what it actually meant is more closely captured by using the term roughly
equivalent.8 The court explained the nature aspect of the analysis in terms of a solution and
problem, in that the impact is the problem, or the burden the community will bear because of the
development, and the exaction should address the problem. As to the extent aspect of the
analysis, the court determined that the most appropriate measure is cost—specifically, the cost of
the exaction and the impact to the developer and municipality, respectively.

If a proposed exaction satisfies this test, it is valid. If the exaction fails the test, it violates
protections guaranteed by the Takings Clauses of the Utah and U.S. Constitutions.9 An exaction
is valid and proportionate when it offsets the costs of a development’s impact. An excessive
exaction requires a property owner to pay for impacts beyond his own.10

Accordingly, the City’s requirements that Mr. Reddish dedicate land for right-of-way, relocate
utilities and install curb, gutter, planter strip and sidewalk, and pay impact fees, must all satisfy
the rough proportionality test. The proposed exactions must each solve problems the proposed
subdivision creates. Moreover, the costs to Mr. Reddish must be proportionate to the impacts the
development imposes on the City’s ability to provide services.

      II.         Right-of-way Exaction on 650 South

Mr. Reddish’s development is bordered by two existing streets to the west and north, 920 West
and 650 South, respectively. Hurricane’s City Code establishes right-of-way standards for roads
based on their classification. In furtherance of the City’s General Plan, the 2019 Transportation
Master Plan designates both 650 South and 920 West as Minor Collector Streets, consisting of a
60-foot right-of-way divided into designated parts for vehicle travel, shoulder, park strip, and
sidewalk.11 Currently these roads, although having been paved, do not meet city standards as
intended for residential use in that they have not been improved with curb, gutter, and
sidewalk.12 The City states that its ordinances require any proponent of a project under these
circumstances to complete the improvements along any street that is to be constructed within, or
that fronts the proposed project. The City therefore has required that Mr. Reddish install curb,

7
  See B.A.M. Dev, L.L.C. v. Salt Lake Cnty. (BAM I), 2006 UT 2; B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake Cnty. (BAM II),
2008 UT 74; B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake Cnty. (BAM III), 2012 UT 26 (reh’g denied, B.A.M. v. Salt Lake
Cnty., 2012 Utah LEXIS 111). See also B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake Cty., 2005 UT 89 (initial Utah Supreme
Court ruling holding that the Nolan/Dolan rough proportionality test applied to legislative, ordinance-based
development exactions).
8
  BAM II, 2008 UT 74, at ¶10.
9
  Call v. West Jordan, 614 P.2d 1257, 1259 (Utah 1980).
10
   Banberry Development Corporation v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899, 903 (Utah 1981).
11
    HURRICANE CITY CODE § 10-2-3; CITY OF HURRICANE, 2019 TRANSPORTATION MASTER PLAN (2019),
http://cityofhurricane.com/uploads/fb/gis/HC_MPStreets_2020Feb.pdf; E-mail attachment from Arthur LeBaron,
Hurricane City Engineer (June 17, 2020).
12
   See HURRICANE CITY CODE § 10-32-5 (“Required Landscaping”)
Advisory Opinion – Reddish / Hurricane City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2020 Page 4 of 10
gutter, and sidewalk on one half of both 920 West and 650 South directly abutting his property,
for the length of the property on each street.

Notably, Mr. Reddish does not dispute the exaction as it relates to 920 West, but only on 650
South. Therefore, because the same exaction is not disputed as to 920 West, this office will
assume that there is no dispute from Mr. Reddish as to whether there exists an “essential link”
between a legitimate government interest and an exaction, in general, to dedicate land and
improve curb, gutter, planter strip and curb.13 Rather, the only dispute is as to whether the
exaction on the corner lot for 650 South is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to its
impact. Mr. Reddish argues that his cost of being subjected to an exaction for both streets
bordering the corner lot is not roughly equivalent to its burden, and therefore unlawful.

      A. The 650 South Exaction Satisfies the Nature Aspect of the Analysis

A court engaging in a rough proportionality analysis must first determine whether the nature of
the exaction and impact are related. To determine this relationship, Utah courts have adopted the
method of looking at the exaction and impact in terms of a solution and problem, respectively.14
The impact is the problem, or the burden that the community will bear because of the
development. If the exaction addresses the problem, the nature component is satisfied.15

The area surrounding Mr. Reddish’s property is planned for medium density residential
development in the City’s General Plan, and the City’s transportation plan has therefore
designated 650 South as a Minor Collector to serve existing and anticipated development of the
larger area. Mr. Reddish’s subdivision introduces new residential use along the portion of 650
South abutting his property, which is paved but not improved to city standards for a Minor
Collector road. Therefore, the impact of the development that the community will bear is the cost
of improving 650 South to comply with right-of-way standards along the portion of the new
development. The exaction of dedicating sufficient right-of-way for 650 South as a Minor
Collector and the installation of improvements of curb, gutter, and sidewalk required by city
code, including necessary relocation of electrical services, addresses the impact in that it is a
solution to the problem caused by development. As such, the nature component of the rough
proportionality test is satisfied.

      B. The 650 South Exaction Satisfies the Extent Aspect of the Analysis

The City’s stated basis for imposing upon Mr. Reddish the right-of-way exactions for both
streets, including 650 South, is because it is a residential development that fronts both streets.
Mr. Reddish does not dispute the appropriateness of the City’s requirement that he install curb,

13
   While this opinion forgoes an in-depth analysis, we nevertheless conclude and note here that such an essential link
likely exists in that the City’s legitimate government interest is safe and efficient traffic flow for both vehicles and
pedestrians, and that establishing public thoroughfares comprised of both a paved road for vehicular travel and
sidewalk for pedestrian travel, delineated by a curb/gutter and planter strip buffer to safely separate people from
vehicles, accomplishes this objective. See Carrier v. Lindquist, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18, 37 P.3d 1112, 1117 (“In order for
a government to be effective, it needs the power to establish or relocate public throughways . . . for the convenience
and safety of the general public.”) See also UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-8-8.
14
   BAM II, 2008 UT 74 at ¶10.
15
   Id.
Advisory Opinion – Reddish / Hurricane City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2020 Page 5 of 10
gutter, planter strip, and sidewalk along 920 West, as all the homes in the subdivision face, and
have access on, 920 West. In other words, Mr. Reddish views “frontage” as limited to the
forward facing, access-bearing side of the property. Mr. Reddish distinguishes 650 South as not
being a frontage road to the corner lot as the structure does not face or have access the road.

Mr. Reddish’s definition of “frontage” is overly restrictive. While the name itself could appear
misleading, “frontage” is not commonly limited to only the “front” side of a lot that a structure is
considered to face, where more than one side abuts a street. Hurricane City Code defines Lot
Frontage as “[t]he distance, measured along the front lot line, that a lot adjoins a street.”16
However, corner lots are defined as “[a] lot abutting two (2) intersecting or intercepting streets . .
.”17 Additionally, lots can have “double frontage” when it abuts two parallel streets.18 Despite
that the structure may have a primary entrance facing only one street, or that the property in its
current state only has an existing access on one street,19 the corner lot does, in fact, have frontage
on both 920 West and 650 South as the property abuts both streets.

Corner lots are often subject to ordinances and regulations not applicable to interior lots based on
characteristics unique to corner lots. For example, Hurricane City Code subjects corner lots to
greater setbacks and other landscaping restrictions to ensure an unobstructed clear-sight
triangle.20 In general, such restrictions uniquely applied to corner lots are lawful because they are
generally applicable to all corner lots, relate to characteristics of corner lots that do not apply to
other lots, and still allow for beneficial use of the land despite the restrictions.

A development exaction is aimed at offsetting a developer’s own impact so that the burden is not
otherwise born by the larger community. Hurricane’s existing regulatory scheme imposes on
each lot direct responsibility for the required improvements along their respective frontage. In a
perfect application, this ensures that all required right-of-way improvements on all sides are
installed by incoming developers in respective shares without burdening citizens at large with
project infrastructure costs. However, under Mr. Reddish’s view of road frontage, he would not
be responsible for the improvements on 650 South along the portion abutting his property
because the property does not face or utilize 650 South for access. In absence of his contribution
through exaction, no one else stands in his place as directly responsible for the required
improvements along that portion of 650 South.

The Utah Supreme Court has held that the most appropriate measure of extent is cost.21
However, measuring whether a developer’s cost is roughly equivalent to the development’s
impact is done by comparing the developer’s cost to the City’s cost to offset the development’s
impact. Although subjecting a corner lot to an exaction for right-of-way improvements for all
applicable frontages may result in more improvements, per capita, than a nearby interior lot, this
is merely reflective of the lot having more frontage due to its character as a corner lot. Requiring
the developer of a corner lot to solely bear the burden of those exactions offsets the impact that
16
   HURRICANE CITY CODE § 10-3-4.
17
   Id.
18
   Id.
19
    It is not uncommon for corner lots to have an additional access. Despite the current status of the property,
arguably, nothing prohibits the owner from later cutting curb and installing an access onto 650 South.
20
   See, e.g. HURRICANE CITY CODE § 10-37-9(E)(2).
21
   BAM II, 2008 UT 74, ¶ 11.
Advisory Opinion – Reddish / Hurricane City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2020 Page 6 of 10
would otherwise extend beyond the developer to the community at large if the community
needed to make up for improvements on at least one side of all corner lots containing a single
access.

Here, it follows that the City’s approach satisfies the extent aspect of the rough proportionality
analysis. The approach does not require Mr. Reddish to dedicate or construct improvements that
another party should arguably provide. In other words, it only seeks to offset the City’s cost to
address the impacts of the proposed development. Consequently, the requirement to dedicate and
install improvements on 650 West where it abuts the development is valid and appropriate in this
case.

      III.        Accumulation of Exactions

Mr. Reddish’s Request for Advisory Opinion, as submitted, was limited to the issue of whether
the 650 South exactions were proper as to the corner lot.22 However, in subsequent
communications with the parties, Mr. Reddish made additional mention of also having to pay
impact fees on top of dedicating property for right-of-way, installing required right-of-way
improvements, and relocating/burying electrical services due to right-of-way construction.

An impact fee is a species of development exaction, consisting of a one-time charge imposed by
a local government to mitigate the impact on local infrastructure caused by new development.23
Growth in the form of new homes and businesses requires expansion or enlargement of public
facilities to maintain the same level and quality of public services for all residents of a
community, and impact fees help fund expansion of public facilities necessary to accommodate
new growth.24 As a form of exaction, impact fees must also comply with the rough
proportionality test, in addition to specific requirements imposed by the Utah Impact Fees Act.25

The issue of whether the impact fee amounts assessed to Mr. Reddish’s property, independently,
amount to a proper exaction is not adequately briefed by either party, as no detail has been
provided as to what fees were assessed or for which public facilities. Rather, Mr. Reddish’s
purpose in mentioning impact fees appears to be to assert that the cumulative effect of paying
several forms of exactions is overly burdensome. Therefore, the Office will assume that the
amounts of the impact fees, in particular, are not disputed, but that we are only asked to address
whether a developer can be subjected to “too many” exactions on a single development.

As analyzed above, a single exaction complies with the rough proportionality test when it is
found that the cost to the developer is roughly equivalent, both in nature and extent, to its impact.
If that is the case for each single exaction, it will remain true for multiple exactions. This can be
illustrated by a balance scale. If one side of the scale represents the impact of development on the
community, and the other side represents the cost to the developer, then a roughly proportionate
exaction is represented by the two sides of the scales being balanced. If additional equivalent
weight is added to each side of a balanced scale, representing another roughly proportionate

22
   See note 1, supra.
23
   See, Salt Lake Cty. v. Bd. of Educ. of Granite Sch. Dist., 808 P.2d 1056, 1058 (Utah 1991)
24
   Id., 808 P.2d 1056, 1058-59.
25
   UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-36a-101 et seq..
Advisory Opinion – Reddish / Hurricane City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2020 Page 7 of 10
exaction, the scales continue to remain balanced, no matter how much weight is added to the
scales so long as the weight to both sides remains equivalent. Where multiple exactions are
assessed on a single development, the accumulation does not amount to a taking so long as each
independently satisfies the rough proportionality test, because each exaction addresses an
equivalent impact on the community.

“Real estate development is a speculative enterprise,”26 being that an owner of property holds it
subject to zoning ordinances enacted pursuant to the state’s police power.27 Utah municipalities
enjoy a broad delegation of that police power, and enact development standards aimed to further
the community’s vision of the general welfare by providing for health and safety, promoting
posterity, improving comfort, convenience, and aesthetics, or protecting the tax base and
property values.28 A municipality’s development standards establish a certain level of service
that determines the respective impact and cost of new development. As standards differ among
localities, development is inevitably more expensive in some areas as opposed to others.
Constitutional exactions, even in aggregate, are “part of the price of doing business in real estate
development, and developers assume the risk that they might not be recouped when individual
lots are sold.”29

Total development costs, though pricy or even prohibitive to an individual developer for
intended development does not amount to a taking so long as each exaction remains
constitutionally proportionate to the respective impact it addresses.

                                                  CONCLUSION

Hurricane City’s exactions for right-of-way improvements and dedication imposed as a condition
of subdivision approval were constitutional as applied to the impact of Mr. Reddish’s proposed
development. The fact that Mr. Reddish is subject to cumulative exactions in the form of impact
fees in addition to right-of-way exactions does not, of itself, amount to an illegal taking of
property insofar as each form of exaction is lawful.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




26
   Bradshaw v. Wilkinson Water Co., 2004 UT 38, ¶ 17.
27
   W. Land Equities v. Logan, 617 P.2d 388, 390 (Utah 1980).
28
   UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-102.
29
   Alpine Homes, Inc. v. City of W. Jordan, 2017 UT 45, ¶ 37.
Advisory Opinion – Reddish / Hurricane City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2020 Page 8 of 10
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in UTAH CODE § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:


                              Kaden DeMille, City Recorder
                              Hurricane City
                              147 North 870 West
                              Hurricane, Utah 84737

On August 3, 2020, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the governmental
office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid, certified mail,
return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                              ______________________________________________________
                              Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
