                       Advisory Opinion 202
                                Parties: Eric Thomas v. Marriott-Slaterville
                                            Issued: August 31, 2018

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                      Interpretation of Ordinances
                                  Entitlement to Application Approval




The principles of ordinance interpretation require Marriott-Slaterville City to apply
the plain language of the ordinance to the land use application. The plain
language expressly prohibits heavy trucks and commercial vehicles within the
zone, leaving no discretion to the City. The fact that the City has approved similar
uses within the zone, or that the zoning provision is otherwise problematic, does
not excuse the City from applying the plain meaning of the ordinance.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI     BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director    Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION
        Advisory Opinion Requested By:               Eric Thomas

        Local Government Entity:                     Marriott-Slaterville

        Type of Property:                            Commercial

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:               August 31, 2018

        Opinion Authored By:                         Brent N. Bateman
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                      ISSUE
        Does the Marriott-Slaterville City Code prohibit establishment of a Peterbilt truck dealership in
        the C-3P Commercial Zone?


                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        The principles of ordinance interpretation require Marriott-Slaterville City to apply the plain
        language of the ordinance to the land use application. The plain language expressly prohibits
        heavy trucks and commercial vehicles within the zone, leaving no discretion to the City. It must
        deny the Peterbilt dealership. The fact that the City has approved similar uses within the zone, or
        that the zoning provision is otherwise problematic, does not excuse the City from applying the
        plain meaning of the ordinance.

                                                    REVIEW
        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
        administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
        application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
        hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
        neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Eric Thomas on July 2, 2018. A copy of
that request was sent via certified mail to Dana Spencer, City Recorder, City of Marriott-
Slaterville, 1570 West 400 North, Marriott-Slaterville, Utah.


                                            EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Eric Thomas on July 2, 2018.
     2. Email regarding Sierra RV's opposition to Mr. Thomas's project, with attachments,
        submitted by Bill Morris, Marriott-Slaterville, on August 6, 2018.
     3. Reply submitted by Eric Thomas, received via email on August 20, 2018.



                                          BACKGROUND
Eric Thomas owns a vacant 18.6 acre parcel in Marriott-Slaterville. The parcel is situated very
near the I-15 12th Street exit, next door to a Pilot Travel Center and hotel, and not far from the
local Sierra RV dealership. The parcel is located in the C-3P Commercial zone.

Mr. Thomas would like to establish a Peterbilt truck dealership on his parcel. His proposed use
will include a truck sales facility, along with truck part sales, on-site repairs, and the service of
vehicles with a greater than 26,000 lbs Gross Vehicle Weight rating.

The Marriott-Slaterville Municipal Code, section 13.10.040, Use Regulation, lists the land uses
available in the City’s commercial zones. Therein, it states that the following is a permitted use
in the C-3P zone:

           Automobile and recreational vehicle sales, service, repair, carwash, convenience
           store with fuel. No body work, heavy trucks or equipment, or commercial
           vehicles.

Further, the same section 13.10.040 states that “Uses that are not listed . . . are not allowed in
these zones.”

This dispute concerns the legal interpretation of this ordinance, and whether the Peterbilt
dealership should be allowed in this zone. Marriott-Slaterville City has determined that this
language does not allow a Peterbilt dealership. Mr. Thomas, however, feels that the City’s
interpretation of the code is incorrect. Mr. Thomas feels that this language is confusing and
vague, without definitions of terms such as heavy trucks, commercial vehicles, sales, etc. He
argues that the Sierra RV dealership has been approved in the zone and provides sales and
Advisory Opinion – Eric Thomas
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 31, 2018        Page 2 of 5
service of heavy vehicles, and carries on an essentially similar function to his proposed use.1 In
addition heavy trucks and commercial vehicles access the Pilot Center and the RV dealership
daily. Finally, he argues that the provision is nonsensical --- it is a commercial zone, and thus
commercial vehicles should be allowed.

Mr. Thomas has requested this Advisory Opinion, with the cooperation of Marriott-Slaterville
City, to seek our opinion regarding whether the Peterbilt dealership can be approved in the C-3P
zone.


                                                       ANALYSIS
Section 13.10.040 of the Marriott-Slaterville Municipal Code would benefit from revision. It
contains less than clear objectives, and as pointed out by Mr. Thomas, its application results in
nonsensical inconsistencies where a similar activity permitted for one user would be prohibited
for another. Nevertheless, the principles of ordinance interpretation require application of the
plain language of the ordinance to Mr. Thomas’s application. The plain language expressly
prohibits heavy trucks and commercial vehicles, leaving no discretion to the City. Accordingly,
an amendment to the ordinance language will be needed in order to approve Mr. Thomas’
requested use.

I.         The Rules of Ordinance Interpretation

Ordinance interpretation requires employment of the canons of statutory construction. Foutz v.
City of South Jordan, 2004 UT 75, ¶8. An analysis of the plain language of the ordinance always
comes first. Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98 ¶30. The primary goal of interpretation is
“to give effect to the legislative intent, as evidenced by the plain language, in light of the purpose
the statute was meant to achieve.” Foutz, 2004 UT 75, ¶11. If the plain language of an ordinance
is sufficiently clear, the analysis ends there. General Construction & Development, Inc. v.
Peterson Plumbing Supply, 2011 UT 1, ¶ 8.

Further, it is presumed that the legislative body used each word advisedly. Selman v. Box Elder
County, 2011 UT 18, ¶18. “When the plain meaning of the statute can be discerned from its
language, no other interpretive tools are needed.” Id. “In addition ‘statutory enactments are to be
so construed as to render all parts thereof relevant and meaningful, and . . . interpretations are to
be avoided which render some part of a provision nonsensical or absurd.’” Perrine v. Kennecott
Mining Corp., 911 P.2d 1290, 1292 (Utah 1996) (quoting Millet v. Clark Clinic Corp., 609 P.2d
934, 936 (Utah 1980)). Finally, “omissions in statutory language should be taken note of and
given effect.” Biddle v. Washington Terrace, 1999 UT 110, ¶14.

It is also important to recognize that zoning ordinances should be strictly construed in favor of
allowing a property owner’s desired use, since such ordinances are in derogation of an owner’s
use of land. Carrier, 2004 UT 98 ¶31.



1
    Representatives of Sierra RV dispute that their uses are similar.
Advisory Opinion – Eric Thomas
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 31, 2018        Page 3 of 5
II.        The Plain Meaning of the Ordinance Language

Unfortunately for Mr. Thomas, we need not proceed any further than a plain language analysis,
because although the policies behind the ordinance are less than clear, the language is
unequivocal:

           Automobile and recreational vehicle sales, service, repair, carwash, convenience
           store with fuel. No body work, heavy trucks or equipment, or commercial
           vehicles.

Automobile sales and service are permitted uses in the zone. So are recreational vehicle sales and
service, which presumably would apply to Sierra RV. Carwash and convenience store with fuel
are also permitted, which presumably would include the Pilot Travel Center.

The problematic phrase comes next: No body work, heavy trucks or equipment, or commercial
vehicles. Grammatically, this is not even a complete sentence. Nothing in the fragment indicates
how it applies to or modifies the permitted uses listed above, or if it is an independent provision.
Nevertheless, some meaning must be given to this phrase, in a way that renders the entire
ordinance relevant and meaningful. Perrine, 911 P.2d at 1292. With some applications and with
many proposed uses, this may be difficult to do.

But in this case, the plain language is enough. The plain language of the ordinance states that
heavy trucks or equipment and commercial vehicles are not an allowed use in the zone. Without
regard to what other properties in the zone do, no question exists regarding whether the Peterbilt
dealership will feature heavy trucks and commercial vehicles.2 What the Peterbilt dealership
proposes to do is plainly prohibited by the plain language of the ordinance. Thus, the City has no
option but to deny Mr. Thomas’s proposed use.

III.       Other Considerations

As Mr. Thomas correctly points out, much about this ordinance may not make sense. It may not
make sense to prohibit commercial vehicles in a commercial zone. It may not make sense to
approve the Pilot Center and Sierra RV in the same area that a Peterbilt dealership should be
prohibited. Certainly a recreational vehicle dealer (permitted in the zone) and convenience store
with fuel (also permitted in the zone) will both receive occasional and perhaps frequent visits by
heavy trucks or commercial vehicles (not permitted in the zone). However, the fact that the
provision does not make sense does not mean the provision is null and void, and need not be
followed. We must presume that the legislative body used each word advisedly, and we are not
free to ignore portions of an ordinance. Selman, 2011 UT 18, ¶18. This ordinance has problems,
but its plain language is clear at least to the extent that it prohibits heavy trucks and commercial
vehicles.


2
  Although no definition of the terms heavy trucks or commercial vehicles can be found in the Marriott-Slaterville
City Code, commercial vehicles are defined in the Utah State Code. See UTAH CODE § 72-9-102 (Commercial
vehicles have a “gross vehicle weight rating or gross combination weight rating of 10,001 or more pounds”). There
is no question that this definition applies to the vehicles to be sold and serviced at the Peterbilt Dealership.
Advisory Opinion – Eric Thomas
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 31, 2018        Page 4 of 5
The fact that the Sierra RV dealership has been approved in the same zone provides no relief.
Recreation vehicle sales and service are expressly permitted in the zone. Moreover, assuming
that the Sierra RV dealership or the Pilot Travel Center were approved improperly due to their
use of heavy trucks and commercial vehicles, their approval does not mandate approval of the
Peterbilt dealership. Land use authorities are obligated to follow and comply with the law. UTAH
CODE § 10-9a-509(2). The City must follow its own code, whether or not they have done so in
the past. Improper approval in the past does not set a precedent requiring improper approval in
the future.


                                          CONCLUSION
We advise Marriott-Slaterville City to consider its desired policies, and revise this section of the
code for clarity and compliance with those policies. When zoning ordinances and the purposes
behind them are well-drafted and clear, disputes such as this are much more easily avoided. In
that process, Mr. Thomas is free to request a change of the zoning language to permit his desired
use. The City is free to accept or reject that request. In any event, without a change in the plain
language of the statute, Mr. Thomas’ proposed Peterbilt dealership is prohibited in the zone.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Eric Thomas
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 31, 2018        Page 5 of 5
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:



                      Dana Spencer, City Recorder
                      City of Marriott-Slaterville
                      1570 West 400 North
                      Marriott-Slaterville, Utah 84404


On this ___________ Day of _______, 2018, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be
delivered to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service,
postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown
above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
