                     Advisory Opinion #205
                             Parties: Devin & Kayley McCabe; Paradise City
                                       Issued: December 12, 2018

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                Compliance with Land Use Ordinances
                                    Exactions on Development

The Town waived requirements it would normally impose at the time of subdivision,
expressly agreeing with the developer instead to impose them at the issuance of building
permits. Thus, the Town may withhold building permits until those requirements have
been met. Moreover, construction of the road is not an excessive exaction, provided the
Town is requiring only that portion of the road that is justified by the impact that one
building permit would create.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI     BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director    Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION
        Advisory Opinion Requested By:               Devin & Kayley McCabe

        Local Government Entity:                     Paradise Town

        Type of Property:                            Residential

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:               December 12, 2018

        Opinion Authored By:                         Brent N. Bateman
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                      ISSUE
        Is Paradise Town imposing an illegal condition or excessive exaction in requiring that a road be
        built before it will grant a building permit for a single-family dwelling on a lot?


                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        The Town waived requirements it would normally impose at the time of subdivision, expressly
        agreeing instead to impose them at the issuance of building permits. Thus, the Town may
        withhold building permits until those requirements have been met. Moreover, construction of the
        road is not an excessive exaction, provided the Town is requiring only that portion of the road
        that is justified by the impact that one building permit would create.



                                                    REVIEW
        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
        administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
        application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
        hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
        neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Devin and Kayley McCabe on September
14, 2018. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Mayor Lee Atwood, Paradise
Town, 9035 South 100 West, Paradise, Utah.

                                              EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Devin and Kayley McCabe on September
        14, 2018.
     2. Response from Mayor Lee Atwood on behalf of Paradise Town on September 27, 2018.

                                             BACKGROUND
Devin & Kayley McCabe plan to purchase Lot #3 in the Summers Minor Subdivision, located at
approximately 300 West and 3900 South in Paradise Town, Utah. The sellers, Richard and
Brenda Medsker, are the original owners and subdividers of the land. The subdivision occurred
in 2006.

At the time of the subdivision, Lot 3 was bisected by the boundary between Paradise Town and
Cache County. The Town, County, and owners worked together to resolve the subdivision issues,
and it was agreed that bisected Lot 3 would only become a buildable lot once it was completely
annexed into Paradise Town and met Paradise Town requirements.

In order to memorialize these and other requirements, the Town adopted stipulations on approval
of the subdivision. The approval stipulations concerning Lot 3, as written, were:

           3) Lot 3 shall be considered a restricted lot by both Cache County and Paradise
           Town until it is fully annexed into Paradise.
           4) Lots 3 and 4 are not approved building lots in Paradise City and shall be
           required to complete the Paradise City Subdivision Process prior to becoming
           legal building lots. Paradise City shall maintain full jurisdiction on Lots 3 and 4,
           with all the rights, duties, and authority to impose conditions and require Lots 3
           and 4 to meet the code requirements of Paradise City.

Moreover, the final recorded subdivision plat contained several general notes concerning the
subdivision. The general plat notes concerning Lot 3, as written, were:

           5. Lots 3 is to be annexed into Paradise City.
           6. Lots 3 and 4 shall meet the requirements of Paradise City prior to be determined as
           buildable lots.


Advisory Opinion – Devin and Kayley McCabe
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 12, 2018        Page 2 of 6
In April, 2016, the remainder of Lot 3 was annexed into Paradise Town. The McCabes now
desire to purchase and build a home on Lot 3. The Town, however, states that it will issue a
building permit on Lot 3 “only when the required infrastructure has been completed.” According
to the McCabes, this means that they will be required to “T up 300 West and 9300 South, and
pave 165’ of frontage road into the field.” The McCabes object to these requirements, arguing
that the requirements are excessive. They also object because they feel that the Paradise Town
Code does not obligate them to build this road. They argue that since the Town Code defines
“developer” as “subdivider,” they should not have to meet these requirements because they did
not subdivide the land.

The Town does not address the “subdivider” argument, but simply states that no building permit
can be issued until the required infrastructure is completed, in accordance with the stipulations
and general plat notes.
                                              ANALYSIS
           I.         Paradise Town Is Entitled to Ensure that Their Requirements Are Met

The stipulations, adopted on approval of the subdivision, as well as the notes on the final plat
unequivocally state that in order to get a building permit on Lot 3, the Paradise Town subdivision
requirements must be met. Although very little information has been provided regarding this
history, these stipulations were likely included (and we assume that this is true) because Paradise
Town has certain requirements for subdivisions that were waived at the time in order to allow
that subdivision to go forward. The notes and stipulations were the Town’s effort to ensure that
those requirements were eventually met. In other words, the Town agreed to require the
improvements at building permit, rather than at subdivision as they normally would.

Paradise Town is entitled to have these stipulations and plat notes fulfilled. Thus, Lot 3 is not
buildable until it complies with Paradise Town’s requirements that they would normally require
at the time of subdivision. It is unknown what exactly those requirements would be, and whether
they are otherwise legal. However, assuming that the requirements are legally imposed by the
Town, the Town can withhold building permits until the requirements are complete.

The McCabes argue that the requirements cannot be imposed against them. According to the
McCabes, and not contradicted by the Town, the Paradise Town Subdivision Code page #4
defines “Developer” as “See Subdivider.” On page #10, the ordinances define “Subdivider” as
“an individual, corporation, or registered partnership owning or controlling any tract, lot, or
parcel of land to be subdivided.” The McCabes reason that they do not meet the definition of
Subdivider, so they cannot be defined as Developers. Thus, they cannot be required to conform
to these requirements imposed by the Town.

Contrary to the McCabe’s assertions, however, they are the developers of their lot, even though
they are not the subdividers. That is because through the plat notes and stipulations, it was agreed
that the Town’s requirements would need to be met before it would issue a building permit. In
other words, the Town and original subdividers agreed to substitute the builders for the
subdividers in this instance. Thus, the builders take on some of the subdivider’s responsibilities.
Moreover, for the McCabes to build upon a vacant lot but not be considered developers would

Advisory Opinion – Devin and Kayley McCabe
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 12, 2018        Page 3 of 6
lead to an absurd result – development activity occurring without a developer. Thus their
argument that they are not developers falls short. They are the developers here.

Nevertheless, finding that the McCabes are “developers” is not a necessity. The question is not
whether the McCabes can be required to build the road. Rather, the question turns on whether the
Town can require that the road be built before issuing a building permit. In other words, it should
not matter to the town who builds the road. What matters is whether the Town can require that
someone build the road before issuing a building permit.

The documentation provided indicates without doubt that the Town can withhold the building
permit on Lot 3 until the requirements are met. Thus the McCabes are looking to purchase a
piece of land that carries a unique circumstance. Unlike other lots in town, this lot requires a road
to be built before a building permit is issued. This may mean that the McCabes will build road,
since they want the building permit. However, the real responsibility to build the road may
remain with the subdividers, Mr. & Mrs. Medsker. The McCabes and the Medskers or any other
interested parties remain free to determine between them who will fulfill the Town’s
requirements. The purchase price of the lot may reflect this unique circumstance. Nevertheless,
the Town is entitled to withhold the building permit until the requirements are met.

           II.        The Requirement to Build the Road Does Not Appear to be Excessive

Although we sorely lack details about the nature and extent of the requirement, Paradise Town’s
requirement that the McCabes “T up 300 West and 9300 South, and pave 165’ of frontage road
into the field” does not appear on its face to be an excessive exaction (even though it may be
prohibitively expensive for the McCabes if they also pay full price for the lot).

An exaction is a government-mandated contribution of property or improvements imposed as a
condition of development approval. B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, (BAM III), 2012 UT
26, ¶16. Exactions arise from the principle that development, even of a single additional home,
causes impacts to a community. In order to assuage those impacts, the community can exact
property or improvements for dedication to the public.

Exactions are legal and appropriate if they are roughly proportionate to the impact that the
development creates. The Utah Code provides:

           A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in a land
           use application . . ., if:
                  (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
                  exaction; and,
                  (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact
                  of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1). The language of this statute was borrowed directly from the U.S.
Supreme Court analyses in Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825 (1987) and
Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994), and has become known as the “rough
proportionality test.” See B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, (BAM I), 2006 UT 2, ¶8. If

Advisory Opinion – Devin and Kayley McCabe
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 12, 2018        Page 4 of 6
the exaction meets this test, it is valid. If the exaction fails this test, it violates the protections
guaranteed by the Takings Clauses of the Utah and U.S. Constitutions. Call v. West Jordan, 614
P.2d 1257, 1259 (Utah 1980). Thus this test “bar[s] Government from forcing some people alone
to bear public burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a
whole.” Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960). An exaction helps pay the costs of
the development’s impact. An excessive exaction requires the developer to pay for impacts
beyond its own. Banberry Development Corporation v. South Jordan City, 631 P..2d 899, 903
(Utah 1981).

In question here is whether the “extent” aspect of the exaction test has been satisfied; that is,
whether the Town’s requirement is excessive, requiring more improvements than one new home
makes necessary.

It appears by the description “T up 300 West and 9300 South, and pave 165’ of frontage road into
the field” that the road requirement exclusively goes along the frontage of the Lot 3. According
to the plat map, Lot 3 actually has 384.65’ of frontage along 9300 South, and the “T” with 300
West occurs directly across from Lot 3. Building 165’ feet of frontage does not even encompass
the full frontage. It appears therefore that the Town is requiring that a road be built only along a
portion of the frontage of Lot 3, perhaps extending along the frontage from the intersection
westward.

A new home will generate some traffic. Thus it brings an impact. It is appropriate for the City to
exact some road improvements. It is common for a City to exact the dedication and construction
of a half-width of a road, curb, gutter, etc., along the entire frontage of the property. This half-
width frontage dedication and construction is common practice and generally accepted as
roughly proportionate to a typical road impact. An abutting half-width generally does not require
one developer to provide improvements that others should provide — i.e., the opposite abutting
landowner typically provides the other half-width.

If these assumptions about what is being exacted are accurate, the exaction to build road along
the frontage of the lot is not excessive. It is not known whether the owners will need to construct
the full width of the road or a half-width here, but if they are required to build a half width, the
exaction appears to be proportionate. Dedication is part of this exaction, and previously occurred
at the recording of the plat. Building a half road only along the frontage is normal and
proportionate. However, if the developer is required to build any portion of the road that should
be built by others, including the full width, or any road the does not front the lot, the exaction is
very likely excessive, and the Town must make adjustments to its requirements.

                                             CONCLUSION
Paradise Town is entitled to require that its requirements are met before it issues a building
permit. If the road is one of the requirements, then the road must be built. Who builds the road is
not important to the Town, and must be sorted out between the original subdividers and the
builders before anyone can expect a building permit to be issued.



Advisory Opinion – Devin and Kayley McCabe
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 12, 2018        Page 5 of 6
Moreover, if the Town is requiring that the builders construct a half-width road along the
frontage of the lot, the exaction does not appear to be excessive, according to the information
that we have received. Details have been scanty. If further information contradicting these
conclusions is provided, this Advisory Opinion may be amended.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Devin and Kayley McCabe
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 12, 2018        Page 6 of 6
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
