                     Advisory Opinion #240
                 Parties: Joseph White, Iron Wood Real Estate, LLC; Tooele County
                                       Issued: June 10, 2021

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                         Compliance with Mandatory Land Use Ordinances
                                  Interpretation of Ordinances

The third-party appeals of the PUD concept plan approvals by the County planning commission are
without merit. Furthermore, the County’s failure to require a pre-application conference or review the
application for completeness does not erase the property owner’s statutorily guaranteed right to review
under land use regulations then in effect. Additionally, as there is nothing in the record to suggest that the
County had formally initiated proceedings to amend the PUD regulations prior to receiving these
applications, the “pending ordinance doctrine” does not apply.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                             State of Utah
                             Department of Commerce
   SPENCER J. COX            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
      Governor
                             MARGARET W. BUSSE       JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON          Executive Director      Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION
         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                 Joseph White, Iron Wood Real Estate, LLC

         Local Government Entity:                       Tooele County

         Applicant for Land Use Approval:               Joseph White

         Type of Property:                              Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 June 10, 2021

         Opinion Authored By:                           Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                        Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                        ISSUES
         On April 30, 2020, this Office issued Advisory Opinion #222, Joseph White, Iron Wood Real Estate
         v. Tooele County regarding a third-party appeal of the Sunset Acres PUD concept plan approval by
         the County planning commission. Several months later, Joseph White submitted two additional
         requests for Advisory Opinions similarly seeking review of the PUD concept plan approvals for
         the Erda Estates and Tealby Village developments. In response to the new the Advisory Opinion
         requests, Tooele County asked that this Office additionally consider whether three legal questions
         affect the approvals.

         Accordingly, this second Advisory Opinion addresses the following issues:
         1. Did the lack of a timely pre-application conference, required by a now-repealed ordinance,
            preclude the proper issuance of these PUD conditional use permits?
         2. Does the failure to review the applications for completeness by planning staff prior to
            acceptance preclude the proper issuance of these PUD conditional use permits?
         3. Does the “pending ordinance doctrine” preclude the acceptance of these two applications
            and/or preclude the proper issuance of these PUD conditional use permits?

                                                      SUMMARY

         As an initial matter, the third-party appeals of the Erda Estates and Tealby Village PUD concept
         plan approvals by the County planning commission are without merit. Furthermore, the County’s
         failure to require a pre-application conference or review the application for completeness does not
         erase the property owner’s statutorily guaranteed right to review under land use regulations then
in effect. Additionally, as there is nothing in the record to suggest that the County had formally
initiated proceedings to amend the PUD regulations prior to receiving these applications, the
“pending ordinance doctrine” does not apply.

Therefore, based on the information provided, the County must allow the applicant to proceed to
the next steps of the approval process as outlined in the Tooele County Code in effect the date the
complete applications were submitted.

                                                                      REVIEW

A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Title 13, Chapter 43, Section
205 of the Utah Code. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty
to exhaust administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a
land use application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue.
It is hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the
courts.

Two Requests for an Advisory Opinion were received from Joseph White on November 19, 2020.
Copies of each were then sent via certified mail to Marilyn K. Gillette, Tooele County Clerk, 47
South Main, #318, Tooele, Utah 84074.

                                                                    EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. That evidence submitted in preparation of Advisory Opinion #222.
     2. Request for an Advisory Opinion regarding Erda Estates, submitted by Joseph White,
        received November 19, 2020.
     3. Request for an Advisory Opinion regarding Tealby Village, submitted by Joseph White,
        received November 19, 2020.
     4. Response from Tom Tripp, Tooele County Council Chair, submitted February 3, 2021.
     5. Additional information from Joseph White and Derald Anderson, submitted February 10,
        2021.
                                         BACKGROUND

Please see Advisory Opinion #222 regarding the Sunset Acres development (the “Sunset Acres
Advisory Opinion”) for additional background related to these issues. The condensed facts for this
Advisory Opinion are as follows.




Advisory Opinion – White/Tooele County, Erda Estates and Tealby Village
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 10, 2021 Page 2 of 8
Joseph White (“White”) is a property owner and land use applicant for several Planned Unit
Developments (“PUDs”) in Tooele County including Sunset Acres, Erda Estates1, and Tealby
Village properties (the “Properties”). The Properties are all located in Tooele County’s RR-5, Rural
Residential, 5 Acre Minimum, Zone, which lists PUDs as a conditionally permitted use.
Furthermore, Tooele County’s Land Use Ordinances (the “Ordinances”) provide a three-step
approval process for approving PUD projects. The Ordinances further grant the planning
commission authority to modify or waive certain code requirements as applied to the project upon
certain findings.

White submitted separate concept plan applications for the Properties, first for Sunset Acres on
June 5, 2019, then on June 12, 2019 for both the Erda Estates and Tealby Village developments.

Planning staff found each of the Properties’ PUD concept plans consistent with neighboring uses,
the general plan, and generally compliant with Tooele County Land Use Ordinances. The planning
commission approved the PUD concept plans for each of the Properties, each subject to a handful
of minor conditions. The Sunset Acres PUD concept plan was approved at the September 4, 2019
planning commission meeting, and the Erda Estates and Tealby Village PUD concept plans were
approved at the December 4, 2019 planning commission meeting.

A group of third-party county residents filed appeals (together, the “Appeals”, and individually, an
“Appeal”) to the Tooele County Commission challenging the planning commission’s approval of
each of the Properties’ PUD concept plans on several grounds, the principal of which was alleging
that the County’s existing PUD ordinance was deficient. The County was in the process of
amending the ordinance and the County did, in fact, eventually repeal this ordinance. The third-
party further argued that the PUD should instead be approved under the new and (then) pending
standards.

On October 29, 2019, White requested an Advisory Opinion from this Office to determine whether
there was any merit to the third-party appeal of the Sunset Acres development. As detailed in the
Sunset Acres Advisory Opinion, the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman found that
regardless of whether the County may have been in the process of amending its PUD ordinances,
for perceived deficiencies or otherwise, it was required to apply the standards of the existing
ordinances then in effect at the time of the application. Further, because concept plan approval was
only the first of several steps toward final approval under the County’s PUD ordinance, the third-
party appeal failed to prove any error in the planning commission’s decision granting approval of
Sunset Acres at the concept plan stage under the County’s (then) current regulatory scheme for
planned unit development. Therefore, the County must allow the applicant to proceed to the next
steps of the approval process.

Subsequent to the release of the Sunset Acres Advisory Opinion, White filed the current Advisory
Opinion requests for both the Erda Estates and Tealby Village developments. According to those
requests, both of these development proposal applications have the same fact pattern as that of

1
  Matt Donaldson is listed as the applicant on the Tooele County Planning Commission meeting agenda and minutes
for the Erda Estates PUD. The record does not explain this apparent discrepancy. Ownership does not affect the legal
analysis, and Joseph White is listed as the owner on the Advisory Opinion request for this project, so we will refer to
Joseph White as the property owner to reduce confusion.
Advisory Opinion – White/Tooele County, Erda Estates and Tealby Village
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 10, 2021 Page 3 of 8
Sunset Estates. Like Sunset Estates, the Erda Estates and Tealby Village PUD concept plan
applications were submitted before Tooele County officially initiated changes to the applicable
ordinances, were recommended for approval by Planning Staff, approved by the Planning
Commission, and appealed by the same third-party group at the concept plan stage.

In response to the Advisory Opinion requests made by White, the County requests that this office
consider, specifically, the following three issues:

•    Issue 1: No pre-application conference held. Tooele County’s now repealed PUD ordinance
     required that a pre-application conference be held “prior to” submitting a PUD application.
     That was not done in either of these two matters. Under the ordinance, did the lack of a timely
     pre-application conference preclude the proper issuance of these PUD conditional use permits?

•    Issue 2: Application not reviewed for completeness. These two applications were not reviewed
     by planning staff for completeness prior to acceptance. Does the failure to review the
     applications for completeness prior to acceptance preclude the proper issuance of these PUD
     conditional use permits?

•    Issue 3: “Pending ordinance doctrine” affect approval. Does the “pending ordinance doctrine”
     preclude the acceptance of these two applications and/or preclude the proper issuance of these
     PUD conditional use permits?

                                                                     ANALYSIS

     I.          Adoption of Analysis from Advisory Opinion 222

As an initial matter, we first note that to the extent White’s current request for an Advisory Opinion
asks us to repeat any analysis from our Sunset Acres opinion regarding the County’s decision to
review the PUD concept plan applications under the ordinances that existed at the time of
application, or whether the application of said standards results in any impermissible spot-zoning,
our opinion remains unchanged insofar as the underlying facts in the respective approval processes
are analogous.

As we understand the facts, the approval of the Erda Estates and Tealby Village PUD applications
follow the same details, information, and roughly similar dates outlined in the original Sunset
Acres Advisory Opinion. Having been submitted a week apart, the applicable development
standards in effect at the time of respective application were the same, and in approving the Erda
Village and Tealby Village concept plans, the planning commission applied those same standards
and exercised the same discretion afforded to it by that regulatory scheme. We, therefore,
necessarily, come to the same conclusion as to those issues. For the same reasons discussed in the
Sunset Acres Advisory Opinion, we likewise find that any alleged errors with the planning
commission concept plan approvals of the Erda Estates and Tealby Village developments
equivalent to those raised in the Sunset Acres opinion are without merit.

Tooele County next asks whether the three issues they raise affect that conclusion. We will examine
each one at a time.

Advisory Opinion – White/Tooele County, Erda Estates and Tealby Village
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 10, 2021 Page 4 of 8
     II.         Issue 1: Failure to hold pre-application conference does not affect conclusion

Tooele County’s now repealed PUD ordinance required that a pre-application conference be held
prior to submitting a PUD application. That was not done for any of the applications for the
Properties.2 Tooele County asks under the ordinance, did the lack of a timely pre-application
conference preclude the proper issuance of these PUD conditional use permits?

The Tooele County Code in effect at the time of application states that “Prior to submitting a
planned unit development application, an applicant shall participate in a pre-application
conference with the zoning administrator, county planner, county engineer, sheriff’s department,
fire district, and health department . . . The purpose of the pre-application conference is to enable
the applicant to present the concept of the proposed development and to discuss the procedures
and standards for the planned unit development approval. The conference is intended to facilitate
the filing and consideration of a complete application.”3

This issue was directly addressed in the Sunset Acres Advisory Opinion as follows:

           The Appeal alleges that the planning staff failed to comply with Chapter 9-4 of the
           Tooele County Land Use Ordinance, which provides that before submitting a PUD
           application, the applicant is to participate in a pre-application conference with the
           zoning administrator, county planner, county engineer, sheriff’s department, fire
           district, and the health department to enable the applicant to present the concept of
           the proposed PUD and discuss the procedures and standards for approval.4 The
           required conference appears to solely benefit the application process itself. It is
           “intended to facilitate the filing and consideration of a complete filing,” and “no
           representation by [county officials] during such conference shall be binding upon
           the county with respect to the application subsequently submitted.”5

           The Appeal alleges that Mr. White and county officials did not do the preconference
           as required, and went straight to the PUD application.6 While Chapter 9 of the
2
  This issue was likewise raised for the Sunset Acres Advisory Opinion. See Advisory Opinion 222, Section II, No. 5;
see also, note 32. The record was unclear, but suggested that due to the many other PUD projects proposed by Mr.
White, a pre-application may have formally been held on some other development not the subject of Advisory Opinion
222 (nor this request), but may have been used as an opportunity to confer with Mr. Whites’ PUD developments
collectively.
3
  TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 9-4.
4
  TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 9-4(1)-(2).
5
  TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 9-4(2).
6
  While material submitted by White for this opinion appears to suggest that perhaps the meeting did occur in
conjunction with a pre-application conference for another project, the provided material does not clearly establish that,
as it shows a request for a pre-application conference for another project specifically. The Appeal states that a Planning
Commission member admitted in a meeting that the County felt that with all of Mr. White’s other applications that
this PUD application would be okay. At exactly which meeting this comment was made is not referenced, and the
comment is not found in the available Planning Commission minutes regarding this project. However, the Planning
Staff Report for this PUD at least makes several references to communications Mr. White had with the planning staff
regarding this project, specifically. The meeting minutes also indicate that Mr. White had obtained approval for the
project from the fire department, and suggests he had discussions with the Sheriff, both of whom are listed participants
of the pre-application conference.
Advisory Opinion – White/Tooele County, Erda Estates and Tealby Village
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 10, 2021 Page 5 of 8
            Tooele County Land Use Ordinance allows the planning commission to waive
            certain zoning regulations as they apply to a proposed PUD, Chapter 9 expressly
            provides that “[n]o change, alteration, modification or waiver authorized by this
            chapter shall authorize . . . a modification with respect to any standard established
            by this chapter.”7

            Because Chapter 9 states that prior to submitting an application, “an applicant shall
            participate in a pre-application conference,”8 the meeting is clearly mandatory.
            However, the Appeal has not identified what error, if any, is attributed to the
            planning commission’s decision that directly resulted from the failure to have a pre-
            application meeting. For purposes of land use appeal, it is not enough to simply
            allege an error in interpreting or administrating a land use ordinance. Rather, the
            erroneous interpretation or administration must manifest as an error in the resulting
            decision itself, such that the decision adversely affects the party filing the appeal.9

            Because the party seeking appeal bears the burden of proving that the land use
            authority erred, and the Appeal associates no error in the decision due to any failure
            to hold the pre-application conference, the Appeal has not proved a valid error by
            the procedural violation.

The Appeals do not establish any adverse affects arising from the County’s failure to require pre-
application meetings. Therefore, Tooele County’s failure to require a pre-application conference
prior to that application in no way erases White’s statutorily guaranteed right to review under land
use regulations. The pre-application meeting was intended to assist White. It’s waiver by the
County cannot be held against him where no valid error has been established.

     III.        Issue 2: Failure to review applications for completeness does not affect
                 conclusion

It is alleged that the Erda Estates and Tealby Village development applications were not reviewed
by the Tooele County staff for completeness prior to their acceptance. It has not been alleged that
the submitted applications are incomplete, only that that Tooele County staff did not review them
for completeness. Furthermore, we are unable to find reference in the Tooele County Code then in
effect requiring a review for completeness prior to accepting an application.

Utah State Code stipulates that “a land use application is considered submitted and complete when
the applicant provides the application in a form that complies with the requirements of the
applicable ordinance and pays all applicable fees.”10 There is no requirement that the local


7
  TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 9-2(2).
8
  TOOELE LAND USE ORDINANCE § 9-4(1) (emphasis added).
9
  See Busche v. Salt Lake County, 2001 UT App 111, ¶ 17, 26 P.3d 862 (finding four basic elements to a claim for land
use appeal: (1) a person adversely affected, (2) a decision administering or interpreting a zoning ordinance, (3) a
decision applying the zoning ordinance, and (4) an error in the decision administering or interpreting the zoning
ordinance); see also Potter v. S. Salt Lake City, 2018 UT 21, ¶ 29, 422 P.3d 803 (“we do not overturn a decision of a
lower court or administrative body upon a mere showing of error; proof of prejudice is typically required”).
10
   UTAH CODE§ 17-27A-508(1)(C).
Advisory Opinion – White/Tooele County, Erda Estates and Tealby Village
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 10, 2021 Page 6 of 8
government review the applications for completeness before the applicant’s vested rights are
triggered.11

White apparently submitted complete land use applications12 for the Erda Estates and Tealby
Village PUD developments, along with all applications fees. Tooele County’s failure to review
the application for completeness does not affect White’s statutorily guaranteed right to review
under land use regulations then in effect.


     IV.         Issue 3: “Pending ordinance doctrine” does not affect conclusion

The County next asks whether the “pending ordinance doctrine” precludes the acceptance of these
two applications and/or precludes the proper issuance of these PUD conditional use permits.

As discussed above, an applicant is entitled to land use application approval if the proposed
development meets the zoning requirements in existence at the time of his application. This rule is
known as the “vested rights” rule.13

There are two statutory exceptions to the vested rights rule. A city does not have to review an
applicant’s application under the ordinances in effect at the time a complete application is
submitted (1) if “the land use authority, on the record, formally finds that a compelling,
countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by approving the application,” or (2) if, “in
the manner provided by local ordinance and before the applicant submits the application, the
municipality formally initiates proceedings to amend the municipality’s land use regulations in a
manner that would prohibit approval of the application as submitted.”14

Here, the County asks whether the second exception applies. One of the issues raised in the Sunset
Acres Advisory Opinion centers around the allegation that Tooele County’s then current PUD
regulations were deficient, as the County appeared to be in the process of working out a new
regulatory scheme for PUDs. However, this regulatory overhaul had not yet occurred. There is
nothing in the record to suggest that the County had formally initiated proceedings to amend the
PUD regulations before the uncontested date on which White submitted complete land use
applications. Therefore, applications must be reviewed under the laws in effect at the time the
applications were submitted.
                                           CONCLUSION

The County’s failure to require a pre-application conference or review the application for
completeness does not erase White’s statutorily guaranteed right to review under land use

11
   One may question whether the application would be considered complete where a pre-application conference was
not held as stipulated in the ordinance. In our opinion, the pre-application conference should have been held “prior to
submitting a planned unit development application” and as such, was not as part of the actual application, and
therefore, its absence does not affect the completeness of the application.
12
   We have nothing in the record to indicate the applications were anything but complete.
13
   See also Western Land Equities v. Logan City, 617 P.2d 388 (Utah 1980) (“[A]n applicant is entitled to [land use
application approval] if his proposed development meets the zoning requirements in existence at the time of his
application…”).
14
   UTAH CODE § 17-27a-508(1)(a)(ii)(A)-(B).
Advisory Opinion – White/Tooele County, Erda Estates and Tealby Village
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 10, 2021 Page 7 of 8
regulations then in effect. Additionally, as there is nothing in the record to suggest that the County
had formally initiated proceedings to amend the PUD regulations prior to receiving White’s
applications, the “pending ordinance doctrine” does not apply.

Therefore, based on the information provided, the County must allow the applicant to proceed to
the next steps of the approval process as outlined in the Tooele County Code in effect the date the
complete applications for Erda Estates and Tealby Village were submitted.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – White/Tooele County, Erda Estates and Tealby Village
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 10, 2021 Page 8 of 8
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not constitute
legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of
Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may not
reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in UTAH CODE § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of Commerce,
Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as designated in that
database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:


                              Marilyn K. Gillette, Tooele County Clerk
                              Tooele County
                              47 South Main, #318,
                              Tooele, Utah 84074

On June 10, 2021, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the governmental
office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid, certified mail,
return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                              ______________________________________________________
                              Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
