                       Advisory Opinion 294
                                  Parties: Brian Buchanan / Hooper City
                                        Issued: September 26, 2024



                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                Compliance with Land Use Regulations
                                     Exactions on Development


The City may require the Property Owner to install infrastructure improvements
along the frontage of his building lot, and it may also require him to pay a fee in lieu
that the City may use to construct the improvements, if needed, within the next 10
years. However, if the City does not construct the improvements within 10 years, it
must return the fee to Owner, and the City may not then obligate the Owner, in
perpetuity, to pay for the improvements if and when the City ever determines the
improvements become necessary. In such a case, the City would need to then find
a different funding source for the improvements.

The amount the City charges for a fee in lieu, if the Owner elects this option, must
reflect no more than the actual cost of constructing the improvements, according to
current and accurate estimates.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                       1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                            www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                propertyrights@utah.gov
                              State of Utah
                              Department of Commerce
   SPENCER J. COX             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
      Governor
                              MARGARET W. BUSSE         JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON           Executive Director         Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                   ADVISORY OPINION


         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                  Brian Buchanan

         Local Government Entity:                        Hooper City

         Applicant for Land Use Approval:                Brian Buchanan

         Type of Property:                               Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                  September 26, 2024

         Opinion Authored By:                            Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
                                                         Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                         ISSUE

              1. May Hooper City enforce an ordinance that requires an applicant for a building permit to
                 either install street improvements along the lot frontage or pay a fee in lieu to have the
                 improvements installed within the next 10 years, and that returns funds not used within 10
                 years but then also obligates the applicant to install the improvements at any point in the
                 future, if the city determines the improvements are needed?
              2. May Hooper City charge a fee in lieu that is a significant increase over similar fees recently
                 charged to other applicants?

                                          SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

         Hooper City may require Mr. Buchanan to install infrastructure improvements along the frontage
         of his building lot, and it may also require him to pay a fee in lieu that the City may use to construct
         the improvements, if needed, within the next 10 years. However, if the City does not construct the
         improvements within 10 years, it must return the fee to Mr. Buchanan, and the City may not then
         obligate Mr. Buchanan, in perpetuity, to pay for the improvements if and when the City ever
         determines the improvements become necessary. In such a case, the City would need to then find
         a different funding source for the improvements.

         The amount the City charges for a fee in lieu, if Mr. Buchanan elects this option, must reflect no
         more than the actual cost of constructing the improvements, according to current and accurate
         estimates.
                                                    EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1.          Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Brian Buchanan, received March 31,
                 2023, and supporting documentation;
     2.          Response submitted by Mayor Dale Fowers on behalf of Hooper City, received May
                 1, 2023.
     3.          Reply submitted by Brian Buchanan, received July 2, 2024.

                                                  BACKGROUND

Mr. Buchanan own property in Hooper City (“City”) located at approximately 7453 West 5100
South. The property has been subdivided as a one-lot subdivision for residential development.
Relatively recently, Mr. Buchanan approached the City seeking a building permit to construct a
single-family residence. The City informed Mr. Buchanan of the requirements he would need to
meet to obtain a permit and construct his home. Since the lot is part of a Minor Subdivision under
the Hooper City Code, the City imposed the requirement that Mr. Buchanan must construct street
improvements, including curb, gutter, and sidewalk, along the frontage of his lot to obtain a
building permit. See HOOPER CITY CODE §10-4A-28.1

Since lot frontages in this area of town and around Mr. Buchanan’s lot are largely unimproved, the
City Code also provides the following:

           If circumstances exist where these improvements are not deemed immediately
           necessary, the City Council may, upon recommendation from the Planning
           Commission, elect to require cash escrow in an amount determined by the City Staff
           equal to an estimate of the current cost of constructing the improvements. This
           amount of the cash escrow is fixed at the time of the agreement and will never
           change. The escrow will be held for a pre-determined time for the use by the City
           for its intended purpose at the City’s discretion. If no project is completed within
           the designate time frame, the escrowed funds may be released to the developer or
           owner who signed the escrow agreement. As an alternative to the release of cash
           escrow at the end of the escrow agreement term, a signed Deferred Improvement
           Agreement will be required which will include a commitment to participate
           financially in future street improvements at whatever time the City may need to
           implement a project, and for the full cost of the improvements at the time of future
           construction.


1
  “Minor subdivisions…shall be responsible for street improvements along the frontage of the entire development,
including all frontage on streets immediately adjacent to the development (corner lots). Street improvements may
include, but may not be limited to, engineering, storm drainage facilities, rough grading, imported sub-grade material,
imported aggregate base material, fine grading, curb and gutter, sidewalk, drive approaches, “curb match” asphalt,
storm water pollution prevention BMP’s, and long-term storm water quality facilities.”
Advisory Opinion – Buchanan / Hooper
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 26, 2024 Page 2 of 7
HOOPER CITY CODE § 10-4A-28.

After meetings between Mr. Buchanan and the City and some additional back and forth via email
to discuss options, the City ultimately took the position that, in consideration of the options
presented above and the fact that the frontages of the lots immediately surrounding Mr. Buchanan’s
lot are unimproved, Mr. Buchanan could do one of three things as it relates to installing the required
improvements along the frontage of his building lot:

       1. Install the improvements. The City Engineer, Briant Jacobs, indicated in an email to Mr.
          Buchanan on March 2, 2023 that the City is confident that “at your location when the street
          improvements occur, it will be easy to match (or incorporate) your installed
          improvements.”
       2. Pay an escrow amount as allowed in the Code provision above and as determined by the
          City’s estimates.
       3. Get three bids for the needed improvements that the City would then evaluate to determine
          whether the escrowed amount could be adjusted.

See Email from Briant Jacobs, Hooper City Engineer, dated March 2, 2023.

This third option was offered because of the circumstances that led Mr. Buchanan to request this
advisory opinion. While exploring his options, Mr. Buchanan asked the City how much it would
require in escrow for the improvements. Nearby owners with similarly sized lots had recently
pursued this option and had entered into agreements with the City that included escrow amounts
of $7,000 and $8,750. Mr. Buchanan, just a few months later, was told he would need to escrow
$26,983,2 a significant increase from the prior, similarly situated scenarios. The City, in justifying
this number explained that it had recently updated its cost estimate numbers to reflect increased
development costs in the market.

As a result, Mr. Buchanan submitted an advisory opinion request to this office asking us to provide
an opinion about whether the City may even enforce the improvement requirement since the
improvements are not “immediately necessary,” and, if it may, whether it is then lawful for the
City to impose such a large increase once the application is already in process and over a short
period of time.

                                                      ANALYSIS

I.         The City may require an applicant to install street improvements, or pay a fee in lieu
           to have the improvements installed within a reasonable period of time, but it may not
           obligate the applicant to install the improvements at some future and undetermined
           date, when there are no plans to ever install the improvements

Mr. Buchanan’s first question asks whether the City may lawfully require the developer to install
the improvements, or escrow the money to pay for the improvements if the City elects to install
them within 10 years and, if not, enter into a deferral agreement that the owner will construct the
improvements at some future and undetermined date decided by the City.

2
    The City originally quoted the escrow amount at $35,653, but later adjusted the number based upon a miscalculation.
Advisory Opinion – Buchanan / Hooper
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 26, 2024 Page 3 of 7
            A.         The Rough Proportionality Test

The options to install the improvements immediately, pay a fee that the City may use to install the
improvements within the next 10 years, or enter into a deferral agreement to install the
improvements at some undetermined time in the future as identified in Hooper City Code section
10-4A-28, are all forms of a development exaction. Utah law defines development exactions as
“conditions imposed by governmental entities on developers for the issuance of [development
approval]” that “typically require the permanent surrender of private property for public
use.” B.A.M. Dev., LLC v. Salt Lake County (BAM I), 2006 UT 2, ¶ 34.

For an exaction to be a lawful exercise of the City’s regulatory authority, it must pass a test to
determine the exaction’s reasonableness. See Banberry Dev. Corp. v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d
899 (Utah 1981). The test the US and Utah Supreme Courts have developed, and that has
subsequently been codified in Utah Statute at Utah Code section 10-9a-508, is referred to as the
“rough proportionality” test.

This test walks through an involved legal analysis intended to ensure the development pays for its
own impacts, but no more. The test, in short, requires that for an exaction to be valid, the imposed
condition or requirement must (1) serve a legitimate government function (2) provide a solution
to a problem the proposed development creates3, and (3) cost the developer about the same as it
would cost the City to address the impact itself.4 See Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483
U.S. 825 (1987); Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994); and B.A.M. Development, LLC v.
Salt Lake County (BAM II), 2008 UT 74.

            B.         The Requirement to Install the Improvements Immediately

The City’s requirement to immediately install improvements, including curb, gutter, and sidewalk,
along the lot’s frontage satisfies this test. Providing needed infrastructure to residential lots is a
legitimate government function. The City Code establishes the improvements needed to serve
residential development in this part of Hooper, and this is what the City is requiring here. By
having the lot owner construct these improvements, it will solve the problem of providing the
needed infrastructure and services to the lot. Finally, the lot owner is contributing his fair share
because he is only constructing the improvements immediately adjacent to his lot.

Since the requirement is in pursuit of a lawful government function, solves the problem of
providing needed services required by City Code, and is imposed in a manner that requires the
owner to only address the impacts of the proposed development, the condition is a lawful exaction.

The analysis, however, becomes more interesting as we look at the two other options outlined in
Hooper City Code section 10-4A-28—the requirements to pay an in-lieu fee for the development
and the requirement to enter into a deferral agreement, referred to in City Code as a “Deferred
Improvement Agreement”.


3
    This aspect of the rough proportionality test is referred to as the “nature aspect” of the test.
4
    This is referred to as “rough equivalency” or the “extent aspect” of the test.
Advisory Opinion – Buchanan / Hooper
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 26, 2024 Page 4 of 7
           C. The In Lieu Fee

Regarding the in-lieu fee, the City Code states:

           If circumstances exist where these improvements are not deemed immediately
           necessary, the City Council may, upon recommendation from the Planning
           Commission, elect to require cash escrow in an amount determined by the City Staff
           equal to an estimate of the current cost of constructing the improvements. This
           amount of the cash escrow is fixed at the time of the agreement and will never
           change. The escrow will be held for a pre-determined time for the use by the City
           for its intended purpose at the City’s discretion. If no project is completed within
           the designate time frame, the escrowed funds may be released to the developer or
           owner who signed the escrow agreement.

HOOPER CITY CODE § 10-4A-28 (emphasis added).

This approach is lawful, as long as the City implements it timely and responsibly. If the City, for
instance, determines the improvements are not “immediately necessary” because, while the
improvements are necessary to provide vehicle and pedestrian transportation, storm drainage, etc.,
the City is nonetheless waiting for development to “fill in” around the lot, and it therefore doesn’t
necessarily make sense to construct all the improvements right now, until the City has a better
view of how surrounding development plays out. In such a case, it is appropriate for the City to
take a fee in lieu and install the needed facilities when adjacent development “catches up” if the
surrounding development catches up within a reasonable period of time. The approach also ensures
development occurs in an efficient and orderly manner, without having to tear up sections of
previously installed infrastructure to match something new.

It has been this Office’s experience that holding a fee in lieu for 5-10 years after the development
occurs to allow surrounding development to catch up is a commonly accepted industry practice.
This industry practice of 5-10 years is an appropriate time frame.5 In this case, the practice is
reflected in the agreement Hooper City has proposed to Mr. Buchanan, which states that “[if] the
city determines within the next ten (10) years that the improvements are necessary on the
Developer’s frontage, the Developer authorizes the City to utilize the money escrowed by the
Developer to construct the improvements.”

Putting a definite time limit on the waiting period supports a conclusion that the frontage
improvements are necessary to serve the development, because it sets a reasonable timeframe
within which the improvements must be installed, or the fee is returned to the applicant. If the City
collects and then uses the money to install the improvements within the set timeframe, the
requirement to pay the fee remains lawful and appropriate for the same reasons the requirement to
immediately install the improvements is lawful.



5
 Relatedly, and of note, State Code sets the timeframe for using or returning an impact fee at 6 years. UTAH CODE
§ 11-36a-602(2).
Advisory Opinion – Buchanan / Hooper
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 26, 2024 Page 5 of 7
           D.          The Deferred Improvement Agreement

However, the more time that passes without a need to install the improvements, the more tenuous
the proposition becomes that the City’s decision to require the developer to pay for the
improvements is reasonable and necessary to offset the impact of the proposed development, as
required by the rough proportionality test. If the City does not have plans to construct the
improvements within a reasonable timeframe, it follows that the City does not in fact need the
infrastructure required by the Code to solve a problem the development creates. And if the
requirement does not solve a problem the development creates, then it fails the rough
proportionality test and becomes an unlawful exaction.

Stated another way, it is unreasonable and unlawful for a City to require payments for future
infrastructure that are not needed to serve the proposed development now or any time in the
foreseeable future.

This implicates the next part of Hooper City Code, section 10-4A-28:

           As an alternative to the release of cash escrow at the end of the escrow agreement
           term, a signed Deferred Improvement Agreement will be required which will
           include a commitment to participate financially in future street improvements at
           whatever time the City may need to implement a project, and for the full cost of the
           improvements at the time of future construction.

This provision attempts to obligate the property owner, in perpetuity, to pay for frontage
improvements if the City ever determines they are needed at some future date. Such a requirement
categorically violates the rough proportionality test and may not be enforced. The City has an
obligation to “make some sort of individualized determination” assessing the impact of the
proposed development.” Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S. 374, 391 (1994). When the City allows
an extended period to pass and does not have any plans to install the improvements required by
City Code, the City functionally acknowledges the required improvements will not solve a
problem, or address an impact, the proposed development creates. The “nature” aspect of the rough
proportionality test requires that an exaction must solve a problem the development creates.

Consequently, since the requirement fails the rough proportionality test, it becomes an unlawful
exaction. If the City decides the improvements are eventually needed at some undetermined future
point in time, it will need to find another means to fund those improvements.

II.        To the extent the fee in lieu reflects the approximate actual cost of installing the
           needed improvements and is used or returned within a reasonable timeframe, it
           constitutes a lawful exaction

Regarding the amount that the City may charge for a fee in lieu that will be spent within 10 years
of approving the current development proposal, the City Code states that the City may “require
cash escrow in an amount determined by the City Staff equal to an estimate of the current cost of

Advisory Opinion – Buchanan / Hooper
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 26, 2024 Page 6 of 7
constructing the improvements.” HOOPER CITY CODE § 10-4A-28. Accordingly, the amount the
City charges for the in-lieu fee must reflect only the amount the City would itself need to pay to
install the improvements. This ensures the fee satisfies the “extent” aspect of the rough
proportionality analysis that requires “rough equivalence” in cost.

Here, the City asserts the amount it has charged in the past to nearby properties did not reflect
current costs in the market. The City has provided updated cost estimates reflecting what it
understands to be current costs.

While the timing here is certainly unfortunate, so long as the amount the City is charging Mr.
Buchanan reflects actual costs, supported by good evidence such as contractor estimates, etc., the
amount is lawful. The City has given Mr. Buchanan the opportunity to obtain his own estimates to
show the amount charged is excessive in light of his development proposal. If Mr. Buchanan can
produce estimates that reveal the amount the City is charging exceeds the actual and reasonable
cost to construct the improvements, then the City will need to lower the fee to avoid imposing an
unlawful exaction.

                                            CONCLUSION

Hooper City may require Mr. Buchanan to install infrastructure improvements along the frontage
of his building lot, and it may also require him to pay a fee in lieu that the City may use to construct
the improvements, if needed, within the next 10 years. However, if the City does not construct the
improvements within 10 years, it must return the fee to Mr. Buchanan, and the City may not then
obligate Mr. Buchanan, in perpetuity, to pay for the improvements if and when the City ever
determines the improvements become necessary.

The amount the City charges for a fee in lieu, if Mr. Buchanan elects this option, must reflect no
more than the actual cost of constructing the improvements, according to current and accurate
estimates.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Buchanan / Hooper
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
September 26, 2024 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based
on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of the author’s
understanding of the relevant law, the author does not represent anyone involved in this
matter. Anyone with an interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the
advice of his or her own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement
of how to protect or advance his or her interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty and consequential damages may also be available if the court finds that the opposing
party—if either a land use applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally
violated the law governing that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are
also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
