                       Advisory Opinion 263
                           Parties: Washington School House LLC / Park City
                                          Issued: December 14, 2022

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                      Conditional Use Applications

                                       Interpretation of Ordinances

                                   Nonconforming Uses & Structures

                                      Substantive Land Use Review

When an application proposes to change from a legal nonconforming use to some
other defined land use, the government must review the proposal on its own
merits for compliance with applicable zoning standards, without regard to prior
conditions or entitlements of the soon-to-be discontinued nonconforming use.

The owner of a legal nonconforming Bed & Breakfast Inn applied for approval as a
Minor Hotel, a defined use allowed in the zone with a conditional use permit. Park
City wrongfully denied the CUP by treating the proposal as an “expansion” or
“increase” of the existing use, instead of reviewing the proposal for approval on its
own merits as a minor hotel. The denial was also based on a misinterpretation of
city code finding that certain accessory uses expressly included in the code’s
definition of hotel were instead standalone uses prohibited in the zone. The denial
was arbitrary and capricious as the city’s reasons were not legally sufficient.

                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          (801) 530-6391
                      PO Box 146702                                                       1-877-882-4662
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                            www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor
                         MARGARET W. BUSSE       JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                         Executive Director       Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor




                                              ADVISORY OPINION


          Advisory Opinion Requested By:             Washington School House LLC

          Local Government Entity:                   Park City

          Applicant for Land Use Approval:           Washington School House LLC

          Type of Property:                          Residential, Historic Site

          Date of this Advisory Opinion:             December 14, 2022

          Opinion Authored By:                       Richard B. Plehn, Attorney
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                     ISSUES

          Did Park City wrongfully deny a conditional use permit application seeking to convert an
          existing legal nonconforming Bed & Breakfast Inn use to a Minor Hotel use?

                                        SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

          A local government may deny a conditional use permit only where it makes supportable
          findings that reasonable conditions cannot mitigate the use’s identified detrimental effects
          to comply with objective, ordinance-based standards. The government must base these
          required findings on applicable regulations relevant to the application.

          Land use ordinances commonly restrict the expansion of a legal nonconforming use;
          however, when an applicant proposes to change from a nonconforming use to some other
          defined land use, the government must review the proposal on its own merits for
          compliance with applicable zoning standards, without regard to prior conditions or
          entitlements of the soon-to-be discontinued nonconforming use.

          The applicant operates a Bed & Breakfast Inn as a legal nonconforming use, but has
          applied for approval as a Minor Hotel, which is another defined land use allowed with a
          conditional use permit. Park City wrongfully denied the conditional use permit application
          by treating the proposal as an “expansion” or “increase” of the prior bed & breakfast use,
instead of reviewing the proposed minor hotel for approval on its own merits. The city
made several findings of detrimental effects based on the proposal’s noncompliance with
prior permits for the bed & breakfast use that do not pertain to a change in use. The city
also misinterpreted its code to find that use of dining and meeting facilities within the hotel
constituted additional standalone uses that were prohibited in the zone. From this errant
basis, the city concluded that the application did not conform with the land use code and
that reasonable conditions could not mitigate the detrimental effects it had identified. The
denial was arbitrary and capricious as the city’s reasons were not legally sufficient.

The application proposes a minor hotel, which is a defined use that includes accessory
uses of dining and meeting facilities commonly associated with a hotel, and is allowed in
the zone with a conditional use permit irrespective of how the property has been used in
the past. Accordingly, the city must review the application as a proposal for a minor hotel
use, only, and make appropriate findings regarding compliance with objective, ordinance-
based standards. If reasonable conditions mitigate anticipated detrimental effects of the
minor hotel use in the zone, the application is entitled to be approved as conditioned.

                                           EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information
prior to completing this Advisory Opinion:

    1. Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by attorney Wade R. Budge, on behalf of
       Washington School House, LLC, on June 30, 2022.
    2. Letter from Nicole M. Deforge, on behalf of a group of Park City Citizens and
       Neighbors, on July 22,2022.
    3. Letter from Mark D. Harrington, on behalf of Park City, on July 26, 2022.
    4. Letter from Wade R. Budge, on behalf of Washington School House, LLC, on
       August 30, 2022, in response to Ms. Deforge’s letter, dated July 22, 2022.
    5. Letter from Wade R. Budge, on behalf of Washington School House, LLC, on
       August 30, 2022, in response to Mr. Harrington’s letter, dated July 26, 2022.
    6. Letter from Nicole M. Deforge, on behalf of a group of Park City Citizens and
       Neighbors, on September 9, 2022.

                                          BACKGROUND

Washington School House, LLC (“WSH”) owns the historic Washington School House in
Park City (“City”), a landmark structure built in in 1889 and considered a historic structure
in city code. The property is located in the “Old Town” area, situated between Park Avenue
at the front of the property, and Woodside Avenue at the rear. The property is surrounded
on three sides by residential housing in the “Historic Residential (HR-1)” zoning district.

Existing Use as a Bed & Breakfast Inn

The property has been operating as a Bed & Breakfast Inn under a conditional use permit
(“CUP”) initially issued in 1983. At the time, hotels and other lodging facilities were not
allowed in the HR-1 zone, but city ordinances gave the Historic District Commission the
Advisory Opinion – WSH / Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 14, 2022 Page 2 of 12
authority to approve uses that were not consistent with the zoning regulations when such
an approval was necessary to preserve a historic structure.1 As a result, in order to “save
the building from demolition or accidental loss,”2 the Historic District Commission
approved a CUP allowing renovation of the schoolhouse to operate as a Bed & Breakfast
together with approved nonconforming parking—a private agreement for 11 parking spots
in an off-site parking structure across the street.3

Over the years, WSH has received several other approvals in furtherance of the CUP for
the Bed & Breakfast use. Of note, in 2001, the City approved a renovation of a detached
accessory garage into a flat-roof terrace, concluding it was allowed by the HR-1 zoning
and consistent with the 1983 CUP, though cautioning that “programming the flat-
roof/terrace for outdoor commercial activities which are inconsistent with the character
and scope of bed and breakfast inn operations is not permitted under the 1983 conditional
use permit or the HR-1 district regulations.”4

In 2010, the City approved a “Private Recreation Facility” CUP to construct a lap pool on
WSH grounds behind the schoolhouse. Again, the City found that “passive use of the
grounds by patrons of the Inn are a permitted use in the HR1 zone and consistent with
the 1983 conditional use permit . . . [but] [o]rganized events for the Washington School
Inn patrons and/or the general public including parties, weddings, and other public
assemblies, are not permitted in the HR1 zone and are outside the scope of the 1983
conditional use permit.”5 Finally, in 2011, the City approved the internal remodel of WSH
to reduce the number of rooms from 15 to 12, which is its current operation. The current
guest occupancy is approximately 30 as a Bed & Breakfast use.

Application for a Change in use to a Minor Hotel

From the time in 1983 when the schoolhouse was initially approved as a nonconforming
bed & breakfast use in the HR-1 district, not only has Bed & Breakfast Inn been added as
an allowed use in the district, but several other types of allowed lodging uses have been
added, including “Nightly Rental,” “Boarding House, hostel,” and, “Hotel, Minor.”6

In 2020, WSH applied for a new conditional use permit to convert the existing 12-room
Bed & Breakfast use to a 12-room Minor Hotel use. According to the City’s initial staff
report reviewing the proposal, “A Bed & Breakfast . . . is limited to guest rooms and
facilities for guest meals, whereas a Minor Hotel allows for accessory facilities like



1 June 8, 2022 Planning Commission Packet, Item 5.B, Exhibit E: 1983 Conditional Use Permit Approval

Letter.
2 Id., Item 5.B, Exhibit D: 1983 CUP Application for Bed & Breakfast.
3 Id., Item 5.B, Exhibit F. The Staff Report noted that the proposal did not conform to existing parking

requirements because “the parking structure would be located off the property, it does not meet side yard
setback requirements of the zone, and it exceeds the maximum amount of hard surfaced area allowed for
parking.” Additionally, “Two parking stalls are 9’ x 20’ when 10’ x 20’ is the minimum for outside spaces.”
4 Planning Commission Staff Report, The Washington School Inn, dated April 28, 2021.
5 Id.
6
  See, PARK CITY LAND MANAGEMENT CODE (“LMC”) § 15-2.2-2 (2022); see also, LMC § 15-15-1 (definitions).
Advisory Opinion – WSH / Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 14, 2022 Page 3 of 12
restaurants, bars, spas, meeting rooms, group dining facilities, and other activities
customarily associated with Hotels.”7

In WSH’s conditional use permit application, WSH asserted that “[f]unctionally, the
proposed [Minor Hotel] use will continue much the same as the existing, Bed and
Breakfast use,” but that the “one exception to the current operation that the applicant
seeks to permit[] is the ability of Overnight Guests to invite/host Non-Resident Guests for
dining or small gatherings.” These small gatherings might include “an informal meeting,
corporate meeting, or other social gathering.”8

When first submitted, WSH’s proposal initially sought for both indoor and outdoor facilities
to be utilized for special events, and that dining facilities could be available to patrons
without overnight accommodations. This proposal received a significant amount of public
opposition over the course of four public meetings on the application. 9

A group of self-organized citizens that reside in the area surrounding the property
(“Citizens”), represented by legal counsel, appeared and spoke against the application at
scheduled public hearings, and submitted arguments to the Planning Commission as well
as to this Office in response to WSH’s request for an advisory opinion. Citizens argued,
generally, that organized events—including weddings, parties, reunions, and corporate
retreats—had already occurred onsite and violated the CUPs for the Bed and Breakfast
use. Public comments also focused the gradual but consistent expansion of the use of
the property over the years. Citizens’ attorney submitted a letter to the Planning
Commission lamenting that WSH was “seeking permission to double the use of its
property to allow the very things it was expressly prohibited from doing in prior CUPs.”

Planning staff also expressed concern that WSH’s proposal for its dining facilities
effectively opened the use to the general public and likely exceeded the limits of an
accessory use of a Minor Hotel, and instead would constitute an additional primary use
as a “Restaurant” that could operate irrespective of whether the hotel had any overnight
guests (a Restaurant, as a primary use, is not allowed in the HR-1 zone). Planning Staff
sought input from the Planning Commission whether the dining facility proposal would
constitute an accessory use of a Minor Hotel or a standalone use as a Restaurant.

However, WSH revised the scope of its application in several aspects over the course of
the review process with planning staff and public hearing input. As ultimately reviewed by
the Planning Commission, the proposed dining and gathering activities would only take
place inside the hotel. Non-resident guests were also defined to only include the invitees
of overnight guests using the dining facility and indoor gathering areas. WSH proposed a
maximum occupancy of 60 guests (plus 8 employees), up to 30 of which would be
overnight patrons of the hotel rooms, while the remaining 30 people would be the non-


7
  Planning Commission Staff Report, The Washington School Inn, dated April 28, 2021.
8
  Id.
9 Consisting of two work meetings in 2021 and later two public hearings, the first of which was held in

November of 2021 and noted as “brief,” and was continued to the second and last public hearing held on
June 8, 2022.
Advisory Opinion – WSH / Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 14, 2022 Page 4 of 12
resident guests invited by the hotel’s overnight patrons. Invited non-resident guests would
be limited to certain operating hours, and no walk-ins would be permitted.

Parking Reduction

City code provides an initial parking requirement for a Minor Hotel as 1 parking space per
room, but also allows the Planning Commission to approve exceptions. The application
sought a parking reduction under city code to satisfy parking requirements for a 12-room
Minor Hotel with the existing 11 parking spaces used currently for the Bed and Breakfast
Inn. WSH submitted a traffic study concluding that the existing spots were more than
sufficient for the demand of the new hotel use.

As for invited non-resident guests, WSH did not anticipate providing any parking for these
invitees, who would instead arrive by “private shuttle, ride share, taxi, public transit, or on
foot.” Finally, delivery and service vehicles serving the hotel would park on Park Avenue
with the exception of smaller sized vehicles that could park in the driveway as long as
they did not block the sidewalk. Pool service and delivery vehicles would continue to use
Woodside Avenue as they had for the Bed & Breakfast Inn use under the 2010 CUP.

As an alternative, should the Planning Commission insist on the full requirement for 12
parking spots under the code, WSH optionally proposed adding one additional parking
spot in the rear of the property off of Woodside Avenue to satisfy the required 12th spot.
This option, according to Staff Report, would require removal of existing landscaping and
vegetation, and a steep slope conditional use permit.

Denial of Conditional Use Permit

WSH notes that it worked with the City’s planning department on its current proposal for
over two years, and its conditional use application included 42 draft conditions aimed at
mitigating any anticipated detrimental effects caused by the Minor Hotel use. Staff
recommend approval of the application as ultimately revised by the applicant, and as
conditioned by the 42 proposed conditions. At the final Planning Commission meeting,
during public comment, Citizens continued to speak against the application.

The Planning Commission ultimately moved to deny the conditional use permit
application, the minutes reflecting the reasons being “there was not sufficient parking
mitigation for the additional use, there would be a detrimental effect on the surrounding
neighborhood, and there were concerns about the number of non-resident guests.” The
Planning Commission thereafter prepared a written Notice of Planning Commission
Action detailing a list of 14 findings of fact, as well as conclusions of law.

The written findings added that the Planning Commission found that (1) the property is
subject to two CUPs and that the proposed Minor Hotel use was an “expansion” of the
existing Bed & Breakfast use; and (2) the proposed use of dining and other facilities by
non-resident guests constituted standalone primary uses of “Restaurant”, “Private Event”,
and “Outdoor Uses”, which the Commission found were all prohibited in the HR-1 zone
and violated certain restrictions of existing CUPs. Based on these findings, the Planning
Advisory Opinion – WSH / Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 14, 2022 Page 5 of 12
Commission additionally found that a parking reduction could not be approved because
it would increase traffic and violate existing CUPs, and, alternatively, an added parking
space also would increase traffic and violate existing CUPs, and disturb significant
vegetation and steep slopes. From these findings, the Planning Commission concluded
that the applicant’s “request to allow use of the site for Private Events,” and to “increase
the use of the site” was not compatible with the surrounding structures in use, scale, and
circulation and reasonable conditions could not be proposed to mitigate the anticipated
detrimental effects of the proposed use.

WSH requested an advisory opinion to determine whether the City erred in denying the
application for a conditional use permit.

                                          ANALYSIS

A conditional use is a land use allowed in a particular zoning district, see UTAH CODE §
10-9a-507(1), but because of unique characteristics or potential impact of the land use
on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent land uses, may not be compatible
in some areas of the district or may be compatible only if certain conditions are required
that mitigate or eliminate detrimental impacts. Id. § 10-9a-103(8).

A land use authority's decision to approve or deny conditional use is an administrative
land use decision, id. § 10-9a-507(3), which must be supported by substantial evidence
in the record. Id. § 10-9a-801(3)(c)(i). If the land use authority imposes conditions, it must
“ensure that the conditions are stated on the record and reasonably relate to mitigating
the anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.” Id. § 10-9a-507(2)(b). Similarly,
in denying an application, the land use authority “must make findings of fact and
conclusions of law that are adequately detailed so as to permit meaningful appellate
review.” McElhaney v. City of Moab, 2017 UT 65, ¶ 35. Findings are “sufficiently detailed
[when they] disclose the steps by which [the authority] reaches its ultimate factual
conclusions.” Id. ¶ 36.

A municipality acts arbitrarily and capriciously in denying a conditional use permit where
its reasons either have no factual basis or are not legally sufficient. See, Davis County. v.
Clearfield City, 756 P.2d 704, 713 (Utah Ct. App. 1988).

Here, the Planning Commission made a number of incorrect findings that resulted from
mischaracterizing the proposal as well as misinterpreting city code. The City’s
conclusions were therefore not supported by substantial evidence, and its decision to
deny the application was not legally sufficient.

Park City’s enacted conditional use ordinance provides three conditional use standards:

    1. The Application must comply with all requirements of the land use code;
    2. The proposed use must be compatible with surrounding structures in use, scale,
       mass and circulation; and


Advisory Opinion – WSH / Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 14, 2022 Page 6 of 12
    3. The effects of any differences in use or scale have been mitigated through careful
       planning.

See, PARK CITY LAND MANAGEMENT CODE (“LMC”) § 15-1-10.D.

The Planning Commission made conclusions for each of these standards in the negative,
namely, that: “The Conditional Use Permit is not consistent with the Land Management
Code . . . is not compatible with surrounding Structures in Use, scale, mass, and
circulation . . . and reasonable conditions cannot be proposed to mitigate the anticipated
detrimental effects of the proposed Use.” We conclude, however, that the Planning
Commission provided either insufficient factual support, or legally insufficient bases for
each of the above standards.

First, the Planning Commission made several findings regarding compliance with
requirements that were not relevant to the information shown in the application. As a
result, the conclusion that the proposal was not compatible with surrounding structures
was not supported by substantial evidence as it was based on these irrelevant findings.
As to the final standard, the Planning Commission provided no factual support for its
conclusion that no reasonable conditions could be proposed to mitigate the anticipated
detrimental effects of the proposed use. The applicant had proposed 42 conditions for
review, and the Planning Commission’s findings are almost silent as to the efficacy of
these conditions, instead making conclusory findings that the effects could not be
mitigated by condition.

    I.        The Planning Commission’s Findings Were Insufficient Where the
              Proposal was Reviewed as if it was an Expansion of a Nonconforming
              Use and Under Regulations Irrelevant to the Use Proposed

Utah’s Land Use Development and Management Act (“LUDMA”), as applied to
municipalities, provides that a land use application should be substantively reviewed
under the land use regulations applicable to the application or to the information shown
on the application. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(i)(B). That also means that the inverse
should be true—if an application does not propose a particular land use, it would be wrong
to review the application and make findings under land use regulations not applicable to
the application.

    A. The application sought a change in use, and prior approvals/conditions for the
       former Bed & Breakfast Inn have no relevance in determining whether the
       proposed Minor Hotel complies with applicable conditional use standards.

Here, the applicant proposed a Minor Hotel, a use allowed in the zoning district with a
conditional use permit. While the property currently operates as a legal nonconforming
Bed & Breakfast Inn, and the applicant’s purpose in changing uses sought mostly to
“maintain” the current operation with certain exceptions, the Minor Hotel use is legally
distinct from a Bed & Breakfast Inn under city code, and as such, should only be reviewed
under the land use regulations applicable to a Minor Hotel as a conditional use, without

Advisory Opinion – WSH / Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 14, 2022 Page 7 of 12
regard to the existing nonconforming use. By changing land uses, the nonconforming use
is being discontinued, and the minor hotel application is therefore not an application that
seeks to “expand” or “increase” the nonconforming bed & breakfast use.

This distinction is important because nonconforming use regulations often presume that
a nonconforming use should not be expanded or increased, but should rather be
reduced—and Park City is no exception.10 However, conditional use applications are
reviewed under an entirely different presumption. Namely, LUDMA considers a
conditional use to be a use allowed in the zone, and directs that a land use authority “shall
approve a conditional use if reasonable conditions are proposed, or can be imposed, to
mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in accordance
with applicable standards,” and may only deny the conditional use “[i]f the reasonably
anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be substantially
mitigated by the proposal or the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve
compliance with applicable standards.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-507(2).

Here, the City improperly treated the application as if it were an expansion or increase of
a nonconformity. A good portion of the staff report analyzed the proposal according to the
differences between the conditions currently imposed on the Bed & Breakfast Inn by prior
CUPs and the current Minor Hotel proposal. Public comment on the application, too,
largely focused on the proposal as an “increase” or “expansion” of the existing bed &
breakfast use. But most importantly, the Planning Commission’s findings centered around
the proposal as “expanding the Bed & Breakfast Use to a Minor Hotel Use . . . ,” Park
City, Notice of Planning Commission Action (“Notice”), at Findings of Fact #2 (June 27,
2022), and as a request to “increase the use of the site . . . .” Notice, Finding #10.

The Planning Commission also explicitly found that the property continued to be subject
to prior CUPs, erroneously finding that the proposal violated these CUP conditions in
several ways. As a result, the City’s conclusion that the application did not conform to
enacted conditional use standards wrongfully relied in almost its entirely on the legal
fiction that the nonconforming bed & breakfast use still existed for purposes of the
application and that this proposal was an “increase [of] the use of the site.”

A change in use starts with a clean slate, and is to be reviewed entirely on its own merits
for compliance with all existing land use ordinances. The City’s conclusions regarding its
conditional use standards were legally insufficient because they wrongfully relied on
purported noncompliance or other detrimental effects relating to existing CUP conditions,
which have nothing to do with a new application for a Minor Hotel use.



10
   Park City has enacted an ordinance on nonconforming uses and structures “intended to limit
enlargement, alteration, restoration, or replacement which would increase the discrepancy between
existing conditions and the Development standards prescribed by this Code.” LMC § 15-9-1 (2000). City
Code gives direction that land use applications involving nonconformities “are reviewed to ensure that they
are reducing the degree of non-conformity and improving the physical appearance of the Structure and site
through such measures as landscaping, Building design, or the improved function of the Use in relation to
other Uses.” Id.
Advisory Opinion – WSH / Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 14, 2022 Page 8 of 12
    B. The application’s proposed use of dining and indoor facilities are accessory uses
       of a Minor Hotel, not standalone primary uses prohibited by the HR-1 zone

The Planning Commission also wrongfully concluded that WSH proposed operating
standalone uses of “Restaurant”, certain “Private Events”, and/or “Outdoor Uses”, all of
which are prohibited in the HR-1 district.

First, we note that the finding that Outdoor Uses is prohibited is incorrect on its face as it
applies to WSH’s application. This is because the ordinance referenced in the Planning
Commission’s findings, LMC Section 15-4-21 (which does prohibit all outdoor uses unless
the zone allows by permit) was not enacted until September of 2020, 11 after WSH
submitted its conditional use application on February 18, 2020. Because WSH is “entitled
to substantive review . . . under the land use regulations[] in effect on [that] date,” UTAH
CODE § 10-9a-509, this section prohibiting outdoor uses does not apply to WSH’s
application.

As for regulations regarding Private Events and Restaurants, when interpreting land use
ordinances, the standard rules of statutory construction apply, in which Utah courts will
look first to the plain language of the ordinance, Brendle v. City of Draper, 937 P.2d 1044,
1047, reading the ordinance “as a whole, [interpreting] its provisions in harmony with other
[ordinances] in the same chapter and related chapters.” Foutz v. South Jordan, 2004 UT
75, ¶ 11. In doing so, the primary goal is “to give effect to the legislative intent, as
evidenced by the plain language, in light of the purpose the [ordinance] was meant to
achieve.” Id.

City code provides that a minor hotel is a hotel with fewer than 16 rooms, See LMC § 15-
15-1 (2019), while defining “Hotel” as:

         A Building containing sleeping rooms for the occupancy of guests for
         compensation on a nightly basis that includes accessory facilities such
         as restaurants, bars, spas, meeting rooms, on-site check-in lobbies,
         recreation facilities, group dining facilities, and/or other facilities and
         activities customarily associated with Hotels, such as concierge
         services, shuttle services, room service, and daily maid service.

Id. (emphasis added). Additionally, the HR-1 zone provides that “Accessory Building and
Use[s]” are permitted uses. LMC § 15-2.2-2.A. City code defines Accessory use as “[a]
land Use that is customarily incidental and subordinate to the to the primary Use located
on the same Lot.” LMC § 15-15-1 (2019).

Part of the dispute here is how the use of dining and other facilities was initially submitted,
amended, and ultimately reviewed by the Planning Commission. As originally submitted,

11 See, PARK CITY, Ordinance 2020-42. This section on prohibited outdoor uses was previously only part of

the Historic Recreation Commercial (HRC) district, but the City amended the Code to move that section to
its current location as Section 15-4-22 under the Chapter for “Supplemental Regulations,” which “qualify
or supplement, as the case may be, the regulations appearing elsewhere in [the] Code.” LMC § 15-4-1.
Advisory Opinion – WSH / Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 14, 2022 Page 9 of 12
WSH had initially desired that its definition of “non-resident guest” not only mean “guests
of overnight guests,” but also, “guests using the dining facility and indoor areas that have
not reserved overnight accommodations but have made reservations for dining or indoor
gathering.”

The City’s staff report concluded that inasmuch as use of hotel facilities and dining area
are tied to guests of the hotel and their invited guests, they should be considered
accessory uses of the hotel. However, the as applicant’s initial broader definition of non-
resident guest would open the inn to anyone, it might no longer be considered an
Accessory Use, but rather an additional primary use that would be able to operate
irrespective of whether the hotel has any overnight guests. Staff suggested limiting the
definition to only “the guests of overnight guests using the dining facility and indoor
gathering areas.” This amended definition was what was ultimately proposed by WSH
when the application came before the Planning Commission at the June 8, 2022 meeting.

We agree that the application’s proposed use of dining and indoor meeting facilities by
invitees of hotel guests is expressly anticipated in the Code’s very definition of minor hotel
as “include[d] accessory facilities,” as mentioned above. Therefore, as Accessory Uses
are a permitted use in the HR-1 zone, and the proposed use pertains to accessory uses
of a Hotel, the only relevant land use proposed by WSH’s application is a Minor Hotel,
and the Planning Commission erred by interpreting its code in a way that considered
WSH’s application as a proposal for standalone “Restaurant” and “Private Events” uses
when plainly permitted as accessory uses of a Minor Hotel. See Utah Code § 10-9a-
306(2) (“If a land use regulation does not plainly restrict a land use application, the land
use authority shall interpret and apply the land use regulation to favor the land use
application”).

    II.       The Planning Commission’s Conclusion that the Proposal Was
              Incompatible with Surrounding Structures was Legally Insufficient as
              Based on Irrelevant Findings

The City’s conditional use standards require that a proposed use be compatible with
surrounding structures in use, scale, mass and circulation, or, at least, that the effects of
any differences in use or scale have been mitigated. LMC § 15-1-10.D. In other words, a
finding that a proposal is not compatible with surrounding structures is essentially a
finding of a detrimental effect under state law. The City’s conditional use standards
provide a list of 16 items that the Planning Commission “must review” when considering
impacts and mitigation, essentially constituting the available “reasons” why a use could
be found to be incompatible. See, id. § 15-1-10.E.

The Planning Commission’s errant findings regarding compliance with the existing CUP
conditions or standalone primary uses not applicable to WSH’s application are
inescapably entangled with its conclusion that the application did not comply with its
conditional use standards. Specifically, what the Planning Commission determined was
not compatible with surrounding structures in use, scale, and circulation was “the
Applicant’s request to allow use of the site for Private Events, to allow use of the dining

Advisory Opinion – WSH / Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 14, 2022 Page 10 of 12
facilities by non-overnight guests, and to increase the use of the site from approximately
30 guests to 60 guests for dining and Private Events.” (emphases added).

We do not believe that the proper analysis on review would be to attempt to strike out
only the illegitimate considerations of the findings and try to make assumptions about to
what extent this finding of incompatibility was otherwise partly based on any legitimate
factors under the City’s conditional use standards. The findings explicitly state as its basis
considerations that are irrelevant. This inclusion of irrelevant considerations inherently
results in findings of fact and conclusions of law that are inadequate “to permit meaningful
appellate review,” See, McElhaney v. City of Moab, 2017 UT 65, ¶ 35, and are therefore
legally insufficient.

As a result, “where [a municipality’s] reasons . . . are not legally sufficient,” denial of a
conditional use permit is arbitrary and capricious. Davis County, 756 P.2d 704, at 713.

    III.      The Planning Commission’s Determination that Detrimental Effects
              Could Not be Mitigated was Conclusory and Not Supported.

A conditional use permit may only be denied if the land use authority finds that the
“reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be
substantially mitigated by the proposal or the imposition of reasonable conditions to
achieve compliance with applicable standards.” Utah Code § 10-9a-507(2).

The applicant worked with planning staff to propose a list of 42 conditions that could be
imposed on the proposed use to mitigate anticipated detrimental effects. Other than its
findings regarding the applicant’s proposed parking reduction, and a conclusory finding
that the applicant’s “reliance on public parking facilities as a mitigation strategy was
unreasonable,” the Planning Commission’s findings are almost silent as to any possible
conditions, either those proposed or those that could be imposed.

Conclusory statements that detrimental effects cannot be mitigated by condition, without
any discussion of the efficacy of conditions proposed or able to be imposed, fail to
disclose the steps by which the authority reaches its ultimate factual conclusions, and are
inadequate for review. McElhaney, 2017 UT 65, at ¶ 36.

Here, it would appear that the Planning Commission’s findings did not address conditions
in detail perhaps because it had concluded, erroneously, that the proposal categorically
did not comply with city code as it proposed standalone Restaurant, Private Event, and
Outdoor Uses, and otherwise violated prior CUP conditions on the property for the Bed &
Breakfast use. Again, these irrelevant findings result in a legally insufficient conclusion
regarding whether the identified detrimental effects could be mitigated by reasonable
condition. As a result, the decision to deny the conditional use permit was arbitrary,
capricious, and illegal.

Ultimately, WSH’s application proposed only a minor hotel with relevant accessory uses.
The City must therefore review the application as such and make appropriate findings on

Advisory Opinion – WSH / Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 14, 2022 Page 11 of 12
that basis. If the application complies with the stated requirements in city ordinances
pertaining to a minor hotel use, and the application’s 42 proposed conditions—or other
reasonable conditions—will mitigate anticipated detrimental effects of that use in the HR-
1 zone in accordance with relevant CUP standards outlined in city ordinances, the
application is entitled to approval as conditioned.

                                          CONCLUSION

The City’s decision to deny WSH’s conditional use application for a Minor Hotel in the
HR-1 zone was both arbitrary and capricious, and illegal. The decision was illegal as it
was based on an incorrect interpretation of applicable ordinances as well as ordinances
that were not applicable to WSH’s application. The decision was arbitrary and capricious
because the Planning Commission’s findings were not ordinance-based, not sufficiently
detailed, or otherwise not factually supported. The City must review the proposal for
compliance with objective code requirements for a Minor Hotel use only, which anticipates
the accessory use of its dining and meeting facilities as proposed, and if reasonable
conditions will mitigate the anticipated detrimental effects of this Minor Hotel use in this
area of the HR-1 zone, the application is entitled to approval.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – WSH / Park City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 14, 2022 Page 12 of 12
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based
on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are
also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of Commerce,
Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as designated in that
database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:


                             Matt Dias, City Manager
                             Park City
                             445 Marsac Avenue
                             Park City, Utah 84060


On this ___ Day of _____________, 2022, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered
to the governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage
prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
