                       Advisory Opinion 295
                     Parties: Mountain Sunrise Academy / Saratoga Springs City
                                           Issued: October 1, 2024


                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                        Exactions on Development
                                             Impact Fees Act


Although schools enjoy certain benefits with regard to impact fees, the development
activity of schools, like any development that has an impact on a community, must
pay its own way. The Impact Fees Act does not exempt schools from paying impact
fees, and the “directly results” provision of Utah Code 11-36a-202(2)(a)(iii)(A)
cannot mean that schools do not pay their share of existing capacity. Doing so would
result in other developers paying for the school’s impacts, which violates the
constitutional exaction principles. A local government is free to exempt schools from
paying impact fees, but they must find another way to pay for those impacts without
rolling them back into impact fees for others to pay.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                       1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                            www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                propertyrights@utah.gov
                                                                Brent N. Bateman                                                      Dentons Durham Jones Pinegar P.C.
                                                                Shareholder                                                         3301 North Thanksgiving Way, Ste 400
                                                                                                                                                       Lehi, Utah 84043
                                                                brent.bateman@dentons.com                                                                   United States
                                                                O 1+ (801) 375-6600
                                                                                                                                                                    dentons.com




                                                               ADVISORY OPINION

Mountan Sunrise Academy v. Saratoga Springs City

October 1, 2024

Brent N. Bateman1, Shareholder, Dentons Durham Jones Pinegar



                                                                                  ISSUE

Do the impact fees imposed by Saratoga Springs City comply with the provisions of
Utah law?

                                                  SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

Although schools enjoy certain benefits with regard to impact fees, the development
activity of schools, like any development that has an impact on a community, must pay
its own way. The Impact Fees Act does not exempt schools from paying impact fees,
and the “directly results” provision of Utah Code 11-36a-202(2)(a)(iii)(A) cannot mean
that schools do not pay their share of existing capacity. Doing so would result in other
developers paying for the school’s impacts, which violates the constitutional exaction
principles. A local government is free to exempt schools from paying impact fees, but
they must find another way to pay for those impacts without rolling them back into
impact fees for others to pay.

                                                                               OPINION

Mountain Sunrise Academy (“Academy”) requests this Advisory Opinion in order to
determine whether Saratoga Springs City (“City”) has appropriately assessed impact
fees. No facts appear to be in controversy. Likewise, facts are not critical to the
conclusions herein, so they need not be rehearsed here.

Academy’s request for Advisory Opinion raises several legal questions, each of which
deserves address. City has submitted a comprehensive response to Academy’s
questions, and raises several good points of its own. Nevertheless, for efficiency’s sake,

1
  I am grateful to been given the opportunity by the parties, by appointment through the Office of the Property
Rights Ombudsman, to author this opinion. In the two decades or so that I have been closely involved with impact
fees, the question of how impact fees should, and do, apply to schools has arisen often. Now, in testament to the
chasm between opposing viewpoints of this issue, here it is again.

Dentons is an international legal practice providing client services worldwide through its member firms and affiliates. Please see dentons.com for Legal Notices.
UC_7055028.1
                                             Advisory Opinion
                                             Mountain Sunrise Academy v Saratoga                dentons.com
                                             Springs City
                                             Page 2




this opinion does not attempt to review the questions asked one by one. Instead, the
issues raised in the Academy’s request are addressed here with a broader discussion of
the Utah Impact Fees Act and other relevant legal principles.

1. Impact Fees and the Exaction Rules

The Utah Impact Fees Act (“Act”), found in Chapter 11-36a of the Utah Code, defines
an impact fee as “a payment of money imposed upon new development activity as a
condition of development approval to mitigate the impact of the new development on
public infrastructure.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(9)(a). Development activity, including
the building of schools, causes an impact on the community’s public infrastructure.
Impact fees are one way that development pays for its impacts. See UTAH CODE § 11-
36a-304(1)(d).

Impact fees are an exaction, in that they are a contribution to public infrastructure
required for approval of development activity. Salt Lake County v. Bd. of Educ., 808
P.2d 1056, 1058 (Utah 1991). Impact fees must therefore follow the exaction rules, in
addition to the provisions of the Act. An impact fee must therefore be roughly
proportional, in both nature and extent, to the impacts created by the development
activity. See UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1). See also B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt
Lake County, 2008 UT 74, ¶12 (holding that the exaction and the costs of assuaging the
impact must be roughly equivalent).2 The Act is largely designed to achieve that
proportionality. See, e.g., UTAH CODE § 11-36a-603(1)(c).

Like any exaction, an impact fee that requires development activity to pay more than its
proportionate share, or to pay for impacts it did not create, is unconstitutional in violation
of the takings clause. See generally Call v. City of West Jordan, 614 P.2d 1257 (Utah,
1980). This principle in particular is critical to understanding impact fees. The Utah
Legislature has crafted the entire impact fee scheme in Utah in accordance with this
fundamental principle. A developer pays its full fair share of impact fees, but not more
than its fair share. This is because whenever a developer must pay for more than its
own share of impact fees, that developer pays for the impacts created by others. One
developer’s overpayment means other developers get a free ride. This circumstance
violates the exactions test.

This aligns with the current jurisprudence on exactions from both the United States
Supreme Court and the Utah Supreme Court. Increasingly, as exactions have been
examined, those courts have made it clear that any exaction that requires a developer
to pay more than its fair share is an unconstitutional taking, no matter what form the
exaction takes. See e.g., Sheetz v. County of El Dorado, California, 144 S. Ct. 893

2
 The “exaction test,” also known as the “Nollan/Dolan Rough Proportionality Test” or simply “rough
proportionality” is well established and documented. The reader may easily obtain the basics and principles of the
exaction test at the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman website.


UC_7055028.1
                                                Advisory Opinion
                                                Mountain Sunrise Academy v Saratoga                  dentons.com
                                                Springs City
                                                Page 3




(2024); Koontz v. St. Johns River Water Management Dist., 570 U. S. 595; Nollan v.
California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U. S. 825; Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U. S. 374;
B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, 2012 UT 26. Courts have held to the principle
that “One of the principal purposes of the takings clause is to ‘bar Government from
forcing some people alone to bear public burdens which, in all fairness and justice,
should be borne by the public as a whole.’” Dolan v. County of Tigard, 512 U.S 374
(1994) quoting Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49, L. Ed. 2d 1554, 80 S. Ct.
1563 (1960). Accordingly, a local government cannot charge an exaction to a
developer, including an impact fee, where that exaction requires the developer to pay
for more than its own share.

2. Schools and the “Directly Result” Provision

Because schools address particular public needs and provide particular public benefits,
schools have a unique impact on the community. Accordingly, the Act contains several
provisions specifically applicable to schools. For example, the legislature has decided
that schools never have to pay impact fees for parks or trails. UTAH CODE § 11-36a-
202(2)(iii). This is because schools provide facilities to the community that actually
reduce the need for local parks and open spaces. No impact, no impact fee.

Relevant here is the provision in UTAH CODE § 11-36a-202(2)(a)(iii)(A), which prohibits
charging any impact fees to schools that do not “directly result” in the need for
“additional system improvements.”3 Academy argues here that this statutory language
prevents City from charging schools impact fees to buy into existing capacity, and
perhaps indeed any impact fees at all. Academy reasons that existing capacity is not
new construction, and therefore not “additional system improvements.” This argument
is supported by Advisory Opinion 225, which arrived at the same conclusion using a
well-applied plain language analysis.

Nevertheless, in making this argument, Academy, and by necessity Advisory Opinion
225, overlook one critical element of exaction law. Any interpretation that allows a
government, even by statute, to exempt certain bodies from paying their equitable share
for impact fees, which results in those impacts being paid by other developers, is
unconstitutional. Wherever such a statute, ordinance, or rule results in the costs of an
impact being redistributed into the impact fees for others to pay, a violation of the
Nollan/Dolan rough proportionality test occurs. Even if that interpretation is fully
supported by the plain language – even if that interpretation accurately reflects the
legislative intent – it violates the exaction test because it does not provide a method to
pay for those impacts without redistributing the cost back into impact fees.

3
 “Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a political subdivision or private entity may not impose an
impact fee: . . . on a school district or charter school unless . . . the development resulting from the school district's
or charter school's development activity directly results in a need for additional system improvements for which
the impact fee is imposed.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-202(2)(a)(iii)(A) (emphasis added).


UC_7055028.1
                                    Advisory Opinion
                                    Mountain Sunrise Academy v Saratoga     dentons.com
                                    Springs City
                                    Page 4




The Act recognizes this. The Act clearly permits local governments to waive or discount
any impact fee at any time, including expressly allowing local governments to waive
impact fees to schools. UTAH CODE § 11-36a-403(1)(a)(i). However, all waivers or
discounts, including the school waiver, requires the waiver to establish “one or more
sources of funds other than impact fees to pay for that development activity.” UTAH
CODE § 11-36a-403(1)(b). That means the waived impact fees must be paid by general
fund moneys, grants, the public at large, or by some other method besides rolling it
back into the impact fee pot.

This applies no differently to existing capacity than it does to new construction. If a
developer does not have to pay to connect to and use existing capacity, usually some
other developer who paid to install it is stuck paying more than its share. An illustration
may be useful: Often a developer must pioneer infrastructure, meaning that the first
developer in an area must install the infrastructure to serve the development. The
exaction rules state that this developer need only install the infrastructure it will use.
However, good planning principles require that future development be considered when
installing infrastructure. Accordingly, the first developer is often required by the local
government to oversize infrastructure. Then when subsequent developers arrive, they
can connect to what exists rather than digging up the road again to add a plethora of
small pipes, exponentially increasing the costs and impacts of growth. Excess capacity
in many systems exists for exactly this reason – oversizing installed by an early
developer, necessitated by good planning.

Normally, in order to prevent the first developer from shouldering more that its own
burden, the local government arranges with the first developer for reimbursement of
those amounts expended beyond the first developer’s proportionate share. Often this
reimbursement takes the form of impact fees collected by subsequent developers. But if
a subsequent developer, including a school, will connect to that existing capacity but
does not pay impact fees, the first developer is not reimbursed. The school did not have
to pay its share of the cost in installing the infrastructure. The first developer has paid
for the impacts of another developer. This is a violation of the exaction law.

Advisory Opinion 225 implicitly seems to recognize this problem. In an attempt to
address it, that Advisory Opinion proposes that local governments, when preparing their
IFFP, consider areas where schools will be built and plan their impact fee charges
around such situations. However, without a requirement that those impacts be paid by
some other means, to match the requirement that schools be exempted, again just
redistributes the impact costs belonging the school back into the impact fees for others
to pay. It does not prevent the impacts caused by the school being charged, through
impact fees, to other developers.

Moreover, Academy’s (and Advisory Opinion 225’s) interpretation of the “directly
results” provision, even under a plain language analysis, is not the only possible reading


UC_7055028.1
                                     Advisory Opinion
                                     Mountain Sunrise Academy v Saratoga      dentons.com
                                     Springs City
                                     Page 5




of that statute. Specifically, it is not necessary to conclude that “additional facilities”
must mean “newly constructed facilities.” The statutory language states that impact fees
can only be charged to schools if the development activity “directly results in a need for
additional system improvements.” Development activity will often require additional
facilities, but it does not follow that those additional facilities must be newly constructed.
Additional facilities may already be in the ground, but unused. The new development
activity may make using those unused facilities necessary. It is not necessary,
therefore, to read the “directly results” language in a way that violates the exaction test.

Accordingly, giving one type of development an exemption from impact fees, where that
development is having a measurable impact, and without establishing a source to pay
for those impacts outside of impact fees, simply redistributes the cost of those impacts
back into the impact fee total to be paid by someone else. That violates Nollan/Dolan
and is an unconstitutional exaction. Academy will impact City. If the City chooses not to
find a different source to pay for Academy’s impacts, and thus exempt the Academy
having an impact from impact fees, Academy must pay the fees, school or not, existing
capacity or not.

3. Academy Has Not Met The Burden Of Proof For Its Remaining Questions.

Academy raises several other questions in its request for Advisory Opinion related to
whether City’s impact fees were properly adopted and charged:

        A.     Did Saratoga have a proper impact fee facilities plan (IFFP) adopted
               and effective during the relevant timeframe, late 2019 through mid-
               2020?

        B.     If so, does that IFFP specifically reference Mountain Sunrise’s
               anticipated fees?

        C.     If not referenced, did Saratoga properly amend its IFFP to include
               that reference?

        D.     Does Saratoga’s transportation-impact-fees category in its invoice
               include any “roadway or sidewalk” costs prohibited by law?

        E.     Did Saratoga have a proper impact fee analysis (IFA) adopted and
               effective during the relevant timeframe, one that actually anticipated
               and analyzed Mountain Sunrise’s development activity?

        F.     If all the above were in place, were the impact fees properly
               calculated using “realistic estimates” and including proper disclosure
               of the “assumptions underlying those estimates” in the IFA.




UC_7055028.1
                                    Advisory Opinion
                                    Mountain Sunrise Academy v Saratoga      dentons.com
                                    Springs City
                                    Page 6




        G.     Did Saratoga comply with all the enactment provisions for the fee in
               question? Again, no information was provided in response to the
               GRAMA request on this point.

        H.     Have any other new schools burdened with Saratoga’s impact fees
               received any “exemptions” or discounts that should be offered to
               Mountain Sunrise as well.

These questions are thoughtful and valid. However, they are generally unsupported
except to argue that the City did not provide the information to prove the City’s
compliance with the Act. Academy has therefore failed to meet its burden of proof
regarding these questions.

“[A] presumption of constitutionality attaches to the legislative decisions of municipalities
when they establish impact fees.” Home Builders Association of Utah v. City of North
Logan, 1999 UT 63, ¶ 9, 983 P.2d 561, 564 (citing Banberry Development Corp. v.
South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899, 904 (Utah 1981)). Thus, if a developer challenges the
validity of an impact fee, the local political subdivision imposing the fee “must first
disclose the basis of its calculations . . . .” North Logan, 1999 UT 63, ¶ 8 (citations and
alterations omitted). When that information is disclosed, “[t]he burden then falls upon
the challenger to show [that the fee fails] to comply with the constitutional standard of
reasonableness.” Id. 1999 UT 63, ¶ 8. Accordingly, it appears that City has provided at
least some of the documents that are required: the Impact Fees Facilities Plan, and an
Impact Fees Analysis. Assuming that City has provided those documents, the burden
now is on the person challenging the impact fee, Academy, to prove that the act has
been violated. Simply asking questions about whether proper procedures were followed
is not sufficient to establish a violation. As while is not the job of a court to go through
the record and make the case for the party with the burden of proof, it is likewise not
appropriate for the author of this Advisory Opinion. Academy must answer its own
questions to meet its burden. To be clear, this Advisory Opinion expresses no
conclusion regarding whether the amounts charged are appropriately calculated – only
that Academy has not met its burden to show that they are not.

It is also noted that City in their submission has provided answers to each of Academy’s
questions to this Advisory Opinion. So the burden is squarely on the Academy.

                                      CONCLUSION

I conclude, therefore, that although schools enjoy certain benefits with regard to impact
fees, they still, like any entity that has an impact on a community, must pay their own
way. The Impact Fees Act does not exempt schools from paying impact fees, and the
“directly necessary” provision does not mean that a school does not pay for existing
capacity that it will benefit from. If the local government wants to exempt schools, they
can. But Constitutional law requires that the local government also find another way to


UC_7055028.1
                                  Advisory Opinion
                                  Mountain Sunrise Academy v Saratoga    dentons.com
                                  Springs City
                                  Page 7




pay for those impacts. Academy is not exempt from impact fees, and not exempt from
paying impact fees for existing capacity. Likewise, Academy has not met its burden to
prove that the impact fees or procedures to adopt them are flawed.


Very truly yours,

Dentons Durham Jones Pinegar P.C.




Brent N. Bateman
Shareholder




UC_7055028.1
