                                    Advisory Opinion 265
                              Parties: WDG Washington, LLC, Millcreek Partners LLC and
                             Washington City, Washington County Water Conservancy District

                                                   Issued: March 22, 2023

                                                    TOPIC CATEGORY:

                                                      Impact Fees Act

 We make the following conclusions on each of the eight questions raised:
    1. Habitat Conservation Impact Fee: Until and unless the City provides some sort of individualized determination that
       the impact fee is roughly proportionate to the impact on the City to providing the services under the Habitat
       Conservation Plan and related take permit, the Habitat Conservation Impact fee is unlawfully imposed.
    2. Wastewater Treatment Facility and Wastewater Impact Fees: Calculating wastewater impact fees based on
       estimated maximum hourly domestic sewage flow, as calculated in the Impact Fee Facilities Plan rather than average
       daily flow projected by the Developer, is not prohibited by the Impact Fee Act.
    3. Streets/Roadways: The City and the Developer agree that apartments generally generate fewer trips and less of an
       impact on the roadway system than single-family homes do. Accordingly, the City charges a lower impact fee for
       apartments than for single-family homes.
    4. Parks & Recreation: The City is not required by the Impact Fees Act to reduce the parks and recreation impact fee
       assessed because the Developer is providing private recreation facilities as part of the apartment development.
    5. Water use standard used: It is lawful for the Water District to use the standard established by the Division of Drinking
       Water as the level of service standard even though it was established sixty years ago.
    6. Funds not required for project: While there remains some gray area as to the actual status of the Lake Powell
       Pipeline, and the Developer may later request a refund, the water impact fee meets the requirements of the Impact
       Fees Act and appears lawful.
    7. Smaller units require less water than larger units: The Water District’s practice of assessing one (reduced) water
       impact fee for all apartments without further adjustment for the number of bedrooms is lawful.
    8. Reasonably estimated: We do not separately find that Developer’s statutory or constitutional rights have been
       violated in connection to impact fees charged by the City and Water District.
The Developer has raised several valid concerns regarding the way the City and the Water District assess impact fees. If we
were being asked “is this impact fee fair,” or “is this impact fee ideal” we might come to different, more nuanced conclusions.
The City and the Water District may decide to reassess the impact fees assessed accordingly.


                                                        DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory Opinion
is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over time, however,
the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new interpretations issued by appellate
courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general guidance and information on legal protections
afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to
an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                                            (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                                           1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                                     Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                                               www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                                   propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor               MARGARET W. BUSSE        JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                             Executive Director        Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor



                                                  ADVISORY OPINION


         Advisory Opinion Requested By:               WDG Washington, LLC & Millcreek Partners LLC

         Local Government Entity:                     Washington City and Washington County Water
                                                      Conservancy District

         Scope of Advisory Opinion:                   Impact Fee Challenge

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:               March 22, 2023

         Opinion Authored By:                         Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                      Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       ISSUE

         Are the impact fees established by Washington City and Washington County Water Conservancy
         District and exacted against the Bluff View Commons apartment project legal?


                                          SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

         We make the following conclusions on each of the eight questions raised:

              1. Habitat Conservation Impact Fee: Until and unless the City provides some sort of
                 individualized determination that the impact fee is roughly proportionate to the impact on
                 the City to providing the services under the Habitat Conservation Plan and related take
                 permit, the Habitat Conservation Impact fee is unlawfully imposed.

              2. Wastewater Treatment Facility and Wastewater Impact Fees: Calculating wastewater
                 impact fees based on estimated maximum hourly domestic sewage flow, as calculated in
                 the Impact Fee Facilities Plan rather than average daily flow projected by the Developer,
                 is not prohibited by the Impact Fee Act.

              3. Streets/Roadways: The City and the Developer agree that apartments generally generate
                 fewer trips and less of an impact on the roadway system than single-family homes do.
                 Accordingly, the City charges a lower impact fee for apartments than for single-family
                 homes.
     4. Parks & Recreation: The City is not required by the Impact Fees Act to reduce the parks
        and recreation impact fee assessed because the Developer is providing private recreation
        facilities as part of the apartment development.

     5. Water use standard used: It is lawful for the Water District to use the standard established
        by the Division of Drinking Water as the level of service standard even though it was
        established sixty years ago.

     6. Funds not required for project: While there remains some gray area as to the actual status
        of the Lake Powell Pipeline, and the Developer may later request a refund, the water
        impact fee meets the requirements of the Impact Fees Act and appears lawful.

     7. Smaller units require less water than larger units: The Water District’s practice of
        assessing one (reduced) water impact fee for all apartments without further adjustment
        for the number of bedrooms is lawful.

     8. Reasonably estimated: We do not separately find that Developer’s statutory or
        constitutional rights have been violated in connection to impact fees charged by the City
        and Water District.

The Developer has raised several valid concerns regarding the way the City and the Water District
assess impact fees. If we were being asked “is this impact fee fair,” or “is this impact fee ideal” we
might come to different, more nuanced conclusions. The City and the Water District may decide
to reassess the impact fees assessed accordingly.


                                                                      REVIEW

A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final decision
by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Title 13, Chapter 43, Section 205 of
the Utah Code. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that this can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum,
and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Amy Dolce, attorney for WDG Washington,
LLC & Millcreek Partners LLC (the property owners) on July 6, 2022. A copy of that request was
sent via certified mail to Tera Pentz, City Recorder, Washington City, 111 North 100 East,
Washington, Utah 84780.

                                                                    EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Amy Dolce, on behalf of WDG Washington,
        LLC and Millcreek Partners, LLC, on July 6, 2022.



Advisory Opinion – Wright Development Group Washington, Millcreek Partners v. Washington City, Washington County Water Conservancy District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 22, 2023 Page 2 of 17
     2. Supplemental information clarifying request for the advisory opinion, by Amy Dolce, on
        behalf of WDG Washington, LLC and Millcreek Partners, LLC, on July 14, 2022

     3. Letter from Robert C. Keller on behalf of the Washington County Water Conservancy
        District, on August 10, 2022.

     4. Letter from Amy Dolce, on behalf of WDG Washington, LLC and Millcreek Partners, LLC
        on August 24, 2022.

     5. Letter from Robert C. Keller, on behalf of Washington City, on September 8, 2022.

     6. Letter from Robert C. Keller, on behalf of the Washington County Water Conservancy
        District, on September 12, 2022.

     7. Letter from Amy Dolce, on behalf of WDG Washington, LLC and Millcreek Partners, LLC
        on September 28, 2022 responding to Washington City.

     8. Letter from Amy Dolce, on behalf of WDG Washington, LLC and Millcreek Partners, LLC
        on September 28, 2022 responding to Washington County Water Conservancy District.

     9. Letter from Robert C. Keller, on behalf of Washington City, on October 7, 2022.

     10. Letter from Robert C. Keller, on behalf of Washington County Conservancy District, on
         October 21, 2022.


                                                                 BACKGROUND

Washington City is a fast-growing municipality in southern Utah (“City”) and Washington County
Water Conservancy District (“Water District”) is a political subdivision of the state, organized as a
service district to provide culinary and secondary water to users within Washington County. Both
City and Water District exact impact fees for new development within their boundaries.

WDG Washington, LLC and Millcreek Partners LLC (together, “Developer”) own land within City
and Water District boundaries and in 2020 began development of an apartment project. As a
condition of approval for building permits, Developer paid impact fees to City and Water District
in connection with each of six apartment buildings begun over the course of 2021 as approvals
were sought and fees assessed and required.

Developer asserts the impact fees assessed and collected violate the Impact Fees Act as well as
the Utah and U.S. Constitutions in multiple aspects and has requested this Advisory Opinion to
address the following eight issues:

Impact Fees paid to City

     1. Habitat Conservation Impact Fee: Are the impact fees which are calculated on the
        percentage cost of improvements and not the impact of the development on the affected
        infrastructure legal?

     2. Wastewater Treatment Facility and Wastewater Impact Fees: For the impact fees which
        are calculated on the basis of estimated peak usage (gallons per day), is such estimated

Advisory Opinion – Wright Development Group Washington, Millcreek Partners v. Washington City, Washington County Water Conservancy District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 22, 2023 Page 3 of 17
           use reasonable? Developer has an average of 73.06 gpd in a similar project and would
           like to understand the underlying basis.

     3. Streets/Roadways: Are the impact fees assessed based on the relative extent to which
        the development activity will contribute to the cost of existing public facilities and system
        improvements in the future, and how is this calculation determined?

     4. Parks & Recreation: Should the Property Owner be afforded a credit against impact fees
        because its development and surrounding facilities will involve private improvements or
        facilities that will offset the demand for system improvements inside and outside of the
        development?

Impact Fees paid to Water District

     5. Water use standard used: Water District uses the standard adopted by the Division of
        Drinking Water at 800 gpd/ERU as established by R309-510-7. Is this standard, which
        was developed more than 60 years ago and does not consider current standard water
        conservation practices reasonable? Developer achieves 73 gpd on a similar residential
        project.

     6. Funds not required for project: Is it legal for the water impact fees to fund projects not
        required by Property Owner’s development?

     7. Smaller units require less water than larger units: Must one-bedroom units be charged a
        lesser water impact fee than two-bedroom or three-bedroom units.

     8. Reasonably estimated: Developer questions whether all impact fees are reasonably
        estimated.

Accordingly, the Developer has submitted a Request for an Advisory Opinion from the Property
Rights Ombudsman to determine whether the impact fees imposed upon them by the City and
the Water District are consistent with state law.


                                                                    ANALYSIS

     I.          Legal Analysis to determine whether an impact fee is legal

All impact fees assessed in Utah must follow the requirements detailed in the Utah Impact Fees
Act1 (the “Impact Fees Act”) which authorizes political subdivisions to create and impose certain
impact fees on new development. The Impact Fees Act details purposes for which impact fees
may be collected, the procedure for their passage including notice and hearing requirements, as
well as steps for creating impact fee facilities plan, how impact fees are to be calculated, how
proceeds may be spent, how refunds are handled, and how impact fees may be challenged.

While the Impact Fees Act articulates specific statutory rights and responsibilities, it also ensures
the developer’s constitutional rights are protected. Because impact fees are a condition on
development approval that require a developer to give private property in the form of monetary
fees to the government, they implicate constitutionally protected rights. In particular, the Takings

1 Chapter 11-36a of the UTAH CODE.


Advisory Opinion – Wright Development Group Washington, Millcreek Partners v. Washington City, Washington County Water Conservancy District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 22, 2023 Page 4 of 17
Clause of the U.S. Constitution and Article I Section 22 of the Utah Constitution both protect
private property from governmental taking without just compensation.2 An impact fee violates
constitutional protections when it requires a property owner to pay for impacts beyond its own.
Impact fees may offset the costs to the government to provide services to the development, and
no more.3


The U.S. and Utah Supreme Courts have articulated a clear legal test to determine whether an
impact fee goes too far – impact fees are legal only if they are “roughly proportionate in nature
and extent” to the public burdens that the development will impose on governments.4
Furthermore, the nature aspect of the rough proportionality test “focuses on the relationship
between the anticipated impact and the imposed exaction” and the extent aspect of the rough
proportionality test “compares the government’s cost of alleviating the development’s impact on
the infrastructure with the cost [to developer] of the exaction.”5 The Utah Supreme Court also
clarifies that “no precise mathematical calculation is required” but the government must “make
some sort of individualized determination that the required dedication is related both in nature and
extent to the impact of the proposed development.”6

To account for the rough proportionality and “individualized determination” required by the U.S.
Constitution, the Impact Fees Act requires that impact fees include both an (1) Impact Fee
Facilities Plan, and (2) Impact Fee Analysis.

The Impact Fee Facilities Plan (“IFFP”) requires that the local political subdivision “determine the
public facilities required to serve development resulting from new development activity.”7 The IFFP
must identify the existing level of service, the proposed level of service, excess capacity, identify
demands by new development activity, and means by which the demands will be met.8 In short,
the IFFP requires the local political subdivision to calculate the cost of providing public facilities
to new development.

Additionally, the local political subdivision must conduct an Impact Fee Analysis (“IFA”) which
identifies the anticipated impact of anticipated development activity and estimates the
proportionate share of the impact on existing capacity and needed system improvements.9 In




2 The “Takings Clause” in the Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution reads, in relevant part, “nor shall

private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.” Likewise, Utah Constitution Article I,
Section 22 states “private property shall not be taken or damaged for public use without just compensation.”
3 Banberry Development Corporation v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899, 903 (Utah 1981).
4 Note that technically, the two constitutions are different documents from different governments with

different wording and different authority and could be interpreted completely separately. The Utah
Supreme Court has chosen to piggy-back the analysis of the Utah Taking’s Clause onto that of the U.S.
Supreme Court and analyzes the two in unison, using the same standard, and treating them as if they were
essentially one. We follow that example. Therefore, we are left with a single articulated standard for
understanding and applying both Takings Clauses – an impact fee must be roughly proportional in nature
and extent with a duty to the government to make some sort of individualized determination that the impact
fee is related in both nature and extent to the impact of the development.
5 B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, 2012 UT 26.
6 Id.
7 Utah Code 11-36a-301.
8 Id.
9 Utah Code 11-36a-304.


Advisory Opinion – Wright Development Group Washington, Millcreek Partners v. Washington City, Washington County Water Conservancy District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 22, 2023 Page 5 of 17
short, the IFA requires the local political subdivision to calculate the specific impact or
proportionate share new development will have on public facilities.

Therefore, the Impact Fees Act both creates new law by specifically delegating authority to
political subdivisions and giving statutory parameters for impact fee enactment, but also codifies
the existing constitutional tests protecting rights against takings without just compensation, as
clarified by both the U.S. and Utah Supreme Courts. If the requirements in the Impact Fees Act
are followed, and specifically by including the IFFPs and IFAs, an impact fee should meet the
requirements of both Utah statutory law as well as the protections provided by the U.S. and Utah
Constitutions Takings Clauses.

Note that statutes cannot limit constitutional rights. The constitutional protections detailed in
Supreme Court cases can be summarized and included in the Impact Fees Act for clarity and
ease of use, but they do not replace or limit the rights guaranteed by the constitution.

Further note that legislative decisions approving impact fees carry “the presumption of
constitutionality”.10 Therefore, once the city has “disclosed the basis of its calculations”11 as now
specifically required by the Impact Fees Act, the impact fee is presumed in accordance with the
constitution and the burden is on the developer to establish that their constitutional rights have,
in fact, been violated.12

Additionally, note that the impact “is estimated at the time the demand is made” only. 13 The
constitutional analysis does not look at how impact fees are later spent, or whether additional
impact fees may later rightfully be due. Also, impact fees are estimates only. Requesting an
impact fee to be calculated on actual costs, which are calculated after the money is spent, similarly
falls outside of the constitutional analysis.14

Ultimately, to be legal, the impact fee must conform to the requirements of the Impact Fees Act.
If the impact fee ordinance was passed in accordance with the Impact Fees Act, and includes the
basis for its calculations (as required in the IFFP and IFA), the burden is on the developer, or other
protesting party, to prove the calculated impact fee is unlawful as applied to the specific
development proposal.

Note that because of the way the Impact Fees Act is written and how the courts have evaluated
such appeals, the Developer has a heavy burden of establishing their rights have been violated.15
Great deference is given entities enacting impact fees as long as proper procedures were
followed. Furthermore, we are asked to evaluate whether these impact fees are legal, not whether
they are the least expensive way to provide services, nor whether they are ideal from a policy
standpoint.




10 Banberry Development Corp. v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899 (Utah 1981).
11 Id.
12 See Banberry Development Corp. v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899 (Utah 1981) and Alpine Homes, Inc.

v. City of W. Jordan, 2017 UT 45.
13 Alpine Homes, Inc. v. City of W. Jordan, 2017 UT 45, ¶ 28.
14 Alpine Homes, Inc. v. City of W. Jordan, 2017 UT 45.
15 For instance, legislative decisions approving impact fees carry “the presumption of constitutionality”,

once the city has “disclosed the basis of its calculations” the impact fee is presumed in accordance with the
constitution and the burden is on the developer to establish their constitutional rights have been violated.

Advisory Opinion – Wright Development Group Washington, Millcreek Partners v. Washington City, Washington County Water Conservancy District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 22, 2023 Page 6 of 17
     II.         Legal Analysis of questions raised

We will now apply the legal standard to the facts on each of the eight questions raised.

Question 1 - Habitat Conservation Impact Fee charged by the City: Are the impact fees
which are calculated on the percentage cost of improvements and not the average impact
of the development on the affected infrastructure legal?

Washington County is one of the nation’s fastest growing counties and also home to the highest
density of Mojave desert tortoises. The Mojave desert tortoise was listed as Threatened by the
United States in 1990. Shortly thereafter, to allow for continued real estate development while
complying with the requirements of the Endangered Species Act, Washington County applied to
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for an Incidental Take Permit.16

According to the record, beginning in 1993, the City agreed to “support the 1996 Mojave Desert
Tortoise Incidental Take Permit issued to Washington County by the U.S. Fish and wildlife Service.
. .”17 Pursuant to that agreement, the City agreed to participate in the funding mechanism for that
Permit and associated plan by collecting a fee of two tenths of one percent (0.2%) of estimated
construction cost associated with each building permit issued by the City.18 The record does not
specify how this percentage was decided upon, nor the how construction costs relate to habitat
conservation.

Developer argues that calculating the Habitat Conservation Impact Fee as a percentage of the
cost of the improvement is illegal. Developer notes that disturbing one acre of tortoise habitat has
the same impact (and should pay the same impact fee) whether the estimated construction cost
of the work to be performed under the permit is $100 or $100,000,000. Therefore, the Developer
questions whether calculating the Habitat Conservation Impact Fee as percentage of the cost of
improvement is “roughly proportionate” to the impact of the development.

To refute these arguments, the City notes that the Impact Fees Act includes a separate section
devoted to offsetting environmental impacts in particular titled Environmental mitigation impact
fees.19 The express language of that section starts “notwithstanding the requirements and
prohibitions of [the Impact Fees Act], a local political subdivision may impose and assess an
impact fee for environmental mitigation [goes on to establish requirements]” (emphasis added).20
Notably, the requirements listed in this one section of the Impact Fees Act do not require the same
IFFP and IFA required for all other impact fees. Remember that the IFFP and IFA ensure that an
impact fee is roughly proportionate in nature and extent to the impact of the development, and
therefore, does not run afoul of the developer’s constitutional rights protected by the Takings
Clauses.

However, even if the Impact Fees Act carves out environmental impacts from the requirement to
provide an IFFP and IFA, the U.S. and Utah Constitutions still clearly require that all impact fees
be roughly proportional in nature and extent to the public burden that the development will impose
on government.21 Including the IFFP and IFA is one way to ensure constitutional protections are

16 Habitat Conservation Plan, Washington County, Utah dated December 1995.
17 Washington City response received September 15, 2022 quoting Interlocal Agreement.
18 Id.
19 UTAH CODE § Section 11-36a-205.
20 UTAH CODE § 11-36a-205 Environmental mitigation impact fees.
21 Because the interpretation is not necessary for the legal outcome of this question, we decline to opine on

whether the language “notwithstanding the requirements and prohibitions of [the Impact Fees Act],”

Advisory Opinion – Wright Development Group Washington, Millcreek Partners v. Washington City, Washington County Water Conservancy District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 22, 2023 Page 7 of 17
met. If the IFFP and IFA are not provided, the City still bears the burden to “make some sort of
individualized determination that the required dedication is related both in nature and extent to
the impact of the proposed development.”22

The City has not provided an individualized calculation in the record. It is not clear from the record
how the funding mechanism for that Habitat Conservation Impact Fee was determined. Collecting
a fee of two tenths of one percent (0.2%) of estimated construction cost associated with each
building permit issued by the City is straight forward and easy to calculate, and apparently used
county-wide, but the required “individualized calculation” have not been provided. The City must
disclose how construction costs relate to habitat conservation or otherwise determine that the
impact fee relates in nature and extent to the impact of the proposed development.

The method of calculating the Habitat Conservation Impact Fee may produce results that pass
the rough proportionality test. The Habitat Conservation Plan is a wholistic approach intended to
meet the requirements imposed by U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services. Without the Conservation
Plan, and the impact fees funding it, development in this area could be prevented all together.
The proportionate share of creating, passing, and implementing the Conservation Plan by the
government may be much more than the Habitat Conservation Impact Fee. It may be that those
who invest the most stand to gain the most and therefore may be charged the most.

Alternatively, this method may also produce disproportionate results. Requiring impact fees on a
sliding scale based on the cost of new construction is not intuitively proportionate. However, note
that the fees for environmental conservation do not need to be proportionate across various
developments (i.e., developments with lesser impact need not pay smaller impact fees than
developments with a greater impact). It is required only that each impact fee be less than the
proportionate share of the impact of that particular development.

In this instance, the City has not disclosed the basis of its calculation or otherwise established
that the development in question has an impact equal or greater than the Habitat Conservation
Impact Fee imposed. Thus, in the absence of the Habitat Conservation Impact Fee IFFP or IFA,
the City must otherwise make “some sort of individualized determination that the required
dedication is related both in nature and extent to the impact of the proposed development.”23
Without that determination, the City does not benefit from the presumption that this particular
impact fee is constitutional.

Conclusion: Until and unless the City provides some sort of individualized determination that the
impact fee is roughly proportionate to the impact on the City to providing the services under the
Habitat Conservation Plan and related take permit, the Habitat Conservation Impact fee is
unlawfully imposed.

Question 2 - Wastewater Treatment Facility and Wastewater Impact Fees: For the impact
fees which are calculated on the basis of estimated use (gallons per day), is such estimated
use reasonable? (Developer has an average of 73.06 gpd in a similar project, so would like
to understand the underlying basis.)




conclusively means Environmental mitigation impact fees need not comply with other non-contradictory
aspects of the Impact Fees Act at this time.
22 Id.
23 Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994).


Advisory Opinion – Wright Development Group Washington, Millcreek Partners v. Washington City, Washington County Water Conservancy District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 22, 2023 Page 8 of 17
The City has adopted a wastewater impact fee based on an estimated use in gallons per day for
each Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU). Developer questions whether using this estimation is
reasonable where Developer has actual usage data for similarly situated residential units, and
after the development was complete, actual data illustrating the actual average impact for this
specific development.

The wastewater impact fee calculated by Sunrise Engineering in the Wastewater Capital
Improvements Plan, which also calculates an appropriate impact fee, estimates ERU overall at
427.3gpd on average with indoor use calculated at 221.6gpd24. Developer claims actual average
usage of only a fraction of that amount at approximately ERU of 73gpd.

The Developer questions two aspects of the wastewater impact fee: (1) is the City required to rely
on data provided by the Developer from a comparable development and later, usage by the actual
development in question or can they use the City’s own estimate from the Impact Fee Facilities
Plan, and also, (2) may the City calculate wastewater impact fees on the estimated maximum
rather than the estimated average daily flow.

As discussed, the purpose of the IFFP and IFA, required by the Impact Fees Act, is to provide for
the individualized determination that the resulting fee will be roughly proportionate to the
development impact of the particular fee payor. The wastewater impact fee appears consistent
with the requirements of the Impact Fees Act. The wastewater impact fee covers an eligible public
facility. The wastewater impact fee was evidently established properly with an adequate IFFP and
IFA and properly noticed and enacted.

While a properly enacted fee meets an initial threshold of constitutionality, note that the Impact
Fees Act includes a requirement that adjustments must be permitted based upon studies and
data submitted by the developer. Specifically, UTAH CODE § 11-36a-402(1)(d) includes a
requirement that all impact fees enactments include “a provision governing calculation of the
amount of the impact fee to be imposed on a particular development that permits adjustment of
the amount of the impact fee based upon studies and data submitted by the developer.” The
City’s impact fee ordinance contains such a provision,25 and the burden of whether an
adjustment for this developer is warranted pursuant to the City’s application of its ordinance
then falls to the developer by providing the requisite studies and data. Developer maintains that
it provided evidence that similar developments required significantly less sewer capacity, and
later, provided evidence that actual usage at the development was less than the impact fee
imposed.

The City claims they have not received details needed to support the Developer’s assertion that
the development will/does use less water than the Wastewater Capital Improvement Plan
estimates. In other words, the City claims that the Developer did not sufficiently established that
an adjustment was warranted. The City must consider evidence presented by a developer, but is
not required to adjust the fee as long as there is sufficient evidence to support the conclusion that
the fee imposed is generally proportionate to the impact. Based on the information presented, it
is lawful for the City to use their estimates established in the IFFP and IFA.




24 Washington City Culinary Water Master Plan 2017.
25 WASHINGTON CITY CODE § 8-6D.


Advisory Opinion – Wright Development Group Washington, Millcreek Partners v. Washington City, Washington County Water Conservancy District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 22, 2023 Page 9 of 17
Conclusion: Calculating wastewater impact fees based on estimated maximum hourly domestic
sewage flow, as calculated in the Impact Fee Facilities Plan rather than average daily flow
projected by the Developer, is not prohibited by the Impact Fee Act.

Question 3 - Streets/Roadways: Are the impact fees assessed based on the relative extent
to which the development activity will contribute to the cost of existing public facilities and
system improvements in the future, and how is this calculation determined?

The Developer questions whether apartment developments, such as the buildings in question,
have been assessed based on the relative extent to which the development will contribute to the
cost of existing and planned public facilities. The Developer maintains that impact fees for
apartments should be less than single family homes because in general, fewer people live in the
relatively smaller apartments, and therefore generate fewer trips and have less of an impact on
the roadway system.

It appears the City’s impact fee scheme aligns with Developer’s positions. The City charges
roadway impact fees of $1,959 for each apartment and $3,159 for each single-family residence.
This is based on the results of an impact fee study conducted by an engineering company using
the ITE Trip Generation Manual to evaluate impact of various developments.

Because there is no further contention that the City’s provided calculations violate the act, we
assume this point is resolved without the need for our further opinion.

Conclusion: The City and the Developer agree that apartments generally generate fewer trips and
less of an impact on the roadway system than single-family homes do. Accordingly, the City
charges a lower impact fee for apartments than for single-family homes and appears to be lawful.

Question 4 - Parks & Recreation: Should the Property Owner be afforded a credit against
impact fees because its development and surrounding facilities will involve private
improvements or facilities that will offset the demand for system improvements inside and
outside of the development?

The Developer will be including several private recreation amenities as part of the apartment
project including four pickleball courts, a pool with a lazy river, barbeque areas, two playgrounds,
large grassy areas, and community gardens. The Developer seeks a credit against the assessed
parks and recreation impact fees because the private improvements will offset demand for public
facilities.

The Impact Fees Act requires that the Impact Fee Analysis include an offset for system
improvements installed by the Developer as part of the project.26 System improvements are
existing or future facilities that are identified in the impact fee analysis that are “intended to provide
services to service areas within the community at large” and “do not include project
improvements.”27


26 UTAH CODE § 11-36a-304(2) reads “In analyzing whether or not the proportionate share of the costs of

public facilities are reasonably related to the new development activity, the local political subdivision or
private entity, as the case may be, shall identify, if applicable . . . (f) the extent to which the development
activity is entitled to a credit against the impact fees because the development activity will dedicate system
improvements or public facilities that will offset demand for system improvements, inside or outside the
proposed development. . . .”
27 See UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(22).


Advisory Opinion – Wright Development Group Washington, Millcreek Partners v. Washington City, Washington County Water Conservancy District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 22, 2023 Page 10 of 17
In this case, the recreation facilities provided as part of the development will apparently remain
private, and as such, would not qualify as system improvements which would offset impact fees
under state law. Nor does the City’s impact fee ordinance contain anything that would suggest
that credits or adjustments would be more widely available for the creation of non-public facilities.

The City created and provided a park and recreation IFFP and IFA when approving the impact
fee scheme, and has thus provided an individualized determination that the that the required
dedication is related both in nature and extent to the impact of the proposed development.”28
Furthermore, because legislative decisions approving impact fees carry “the presumption of
constitutionality”, once the city has “disclosed the basis of its calculations” 29 included in the IFFP
and IFA, the impact fee is presumed in accordance with the constitution and the burden is on the
developer to establish their constitutional rights have in fact been violated.30

While it may be wholly appropriate for the City to reduce its impact fee in consideration of the
private amenities provided by Developer in this case, nothing in the law requires the City to do so
since the facilities are not public.

Conclusion: The City is not required by the Impact Fees Act to reduce the parks and recreation
impact fee assessed because the Developer is providing private recreation facilities as part of the
apartment development.

We will now discuss the challenges to impact fees paid to the Water District

Question 5 - Water use standard used: Water District uses the standard adopted by the
Utah State Division of Drinking Water at 800 gpd/ERU as established by R309-510-7. Is this
standard, that was developed more than 60 years ago, and does not consider current
standard water conservation practices such as [piping water canals], reasonable?
Developer achieves 73 gpd on a similar residential project.

The Developer next questions whether the standard imposed by the Utah Division of Drinking
Water on the Water District may also be used as the level of service for the water impact fee.

The Utah Division of Drinking Water imposes minimum standards that all public water systems
must meet. These standards are detailed in the Utah Administrative Code at R309-510-7. These
rules specify that water providers must provide for the peak day demand and the average yearly
demand at levels at 800 gallons per day for each equivalent residential connection.31 These
standards were established nearly sixty years ago. The Water District has used these as the level
of service standards in the relevant Impact Fee Facilities Plan and Impact Fee Analysis, and
assessed the Developer accordingly.

The Developer maintains that their development is expected to use much less water than required
by the Division of Drinking Water. The estimated usage comes from a similar development, and



28 Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994).
29 Banberry Development Corp. v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899 (Utah 1981).
30 See Banberry Development Corp. v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899 (Utah 1981) and Alpine Homes, Inc.

v. City of W. Jordan, 2017 UT 45.
31 That standard also requires 0.89 acre-feet per year for each ERU for both indoor and outdoor use to meet

the average yearly demand. Because this portion of the standard was not argued by the Developer, and
complicates the discussion without changing the result, it will not be discussed in the analysis.

Advisory Opinion – Wright Development Group Washington, Millcreek Partners v. Washington City, Washington County Water Conservancy District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 22, 2023 Page 11 of 17
later confirmed by actual usage within the developed community of approximately 73 gpd on
average per day. This estimate is less than 10% of the state standard.

The Developer further maintains that the “relevant time to determine whether an impact fee was
appropriate is at the time that it is imposed on the property owner. The state standards were
adopted roughly sixty years ago before recent conservation efforts, such as piping canals”32 and
water conscious appliances and other practices became common.

The Developer also maintains that the Water District’s general manager acknowledged that water
usage in Washington County has decreased by more than 30% since 2000 in a presentation given
as part of a Wallace Stegner Green Bag presentation.33 He goes on to say that actual residential
usage in Washington County is significantly less than 159 gpcd per ERU connection.

The Developer therefore argues that the Water District cannot legally assess impact fees based
on a level of service of 800 gpcd at peak demand, as established roughly sixty years ago, when
actual data by the Water District indicates actual average residential usage is 159 gpcd and the
development requires only an estimated average 73 gpcd.

Note however, for clarity, that the 800 gpcd required by the Division of Drinking Water is set to
meet or exceed peak expected demand, while the estimates put forward by both the Water
District’s general manager and the Developer put forth are apparently average gpcd. These
different rates are admittedly measuring different things. Without a direct comparison, it is difficult
to determine intuitively whether the water impact fee is excessive. One would expect the peak
demand to be higher than average demand.

Accordingly, we analyze whether the Water District violates the state Impact Fees Act by using
the standard required of it by the Utah Division of Drinking Water as the level of service for the
impact fee. The Developer maintains that because the water impact fee is based on the level of
service required by the Division of Drinking Water which, the Developer argues, is not “roughly
proportionate” or “reasonably related” to “the service demands” of the actual development, it
violates the Impact Fees Act.

In response, the Water District argues that the water impact fee conforms to the Impact Fees Act.
As required by the Act, the Water District prepared an impact fee facilities plan (IFFP) in
connection with establishing the water impact fee.34 The IFFP must “identify the existing level of
service” and “establish a proposed level of service.”35 The Act defines “level of service” as “the
defined performance standard or unit of demand for each capital component of a public facility
within a service area.”36 Level of service is therefore a critical part of any impact fee enactment.

The IFFP uses the standards promulgated by the Division of Drinking Water as the level of service
standard because “[t]he Utah State Division of Drinking Water has established rules that all public
water systems must comply with to determine how much water the system must be able to
provide.”



32 Submission dated September 28, 2022.
33 Submission dated September 28, 2022 quoting presentation by Zach Renstrom, the District’s General

Manager.
34 UTAH CODE § 11-36a-301(1).
35 UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302(1).
36 UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(12).


Advisory Opinion – Wright Development Group Washington, Millcreek Partners v. Washington City, Washington County Water Conservancy District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 22, 2023 Page 12 of 17
While there are many provisions regarding the level of service within the Impact Fees Act37, there
is nothing in the Act that dictates specifically how a level of service is established. For instance,
there is no requirement that the level of service be the minimum necessary or the lowest cost to
meet the actual demand. Similarly, nothing in the Act suggests that the Water District should not
adopt the Division of Drinking Water standard as their level of service. Indeed, if the Water District
is required to build infrastructure and facilities in accordance with the Division of Drinking Water
level of service standards, “the impact on the Water District, after all, could hardly be more
precisely measure than by an assessment of the infrastructure and facilities is required to build
as a result of new development.”38

For this impact fee, the Water District provided the information required by the IFFP and IFA when
approving the impact fee and has thus provided an individualized determination that the required
dedication is related both in nature and extent to the impact of the proposed development.”39 The
limited information available providing actual average usage does not overcome the individualized
determination used using peak demand.

That said, the Developer raises valid concerns. It is not clear why the Division of Drinking Water
has not updated the standards it imposes on water providers in over half a century, particularly
given recent and effective efforts to conserve water. Generally speaking, the older the numbers,
the higher the likelihood the numbers will not be reflective of actual impact. Much has changed in
the past few decades. It may be wholly appropriate for the City to push back on the Division of
Drinking Water standards. However, nothing in the law requires the City to do so.

Conclusion: It is lawful for the Water District to use the standard established by the Division of
Drinking Water as the level of service standard even though it was established sixty years ago.

Question 6 - Funds not required for project: Is it legal for the water impact fee to fund
projects not required by Property Owner’s development?

Developer maintains that a majority of the capital improvements proposed to be paid for with the
water impact fees are for the Lake Powell Pipeline which the Water District is allegedly not
currently pursuing. Developer points out that the Impact Fees Act requires the Water District to
expend impact fees only for system improvements identified in the IFFP and for the specific public
facility type for which they were collected. Developer questions whether it is therefore legal to
collect impact fees for a project the Water District is not presently pursuing.

In response, the Water District maintains that the Lake Powell Pipeline project remains ongoing
with the Water District continuing to expend fees on the project. The Water District expects to
receive over 72,000-acre feet from the Lake Powell Pipeline when it is completed within the
original planning horizon. The Water District goes on to say the Developers “question the legality
and appropriateness of imposing a fee that is based primarily on an extensive project that will
never be built” yet “the [Water District] and the State of Utah are both continuing development
efforts and still intend to develop that source.”40



37 For instance, the impact fee imposed may not raise the level of service for existing development (UTAH

CODE § 11-36a-202(1)) and may exceed the existing level of service if independent of impact fees the means
to increase service level of existing demand is proposed (UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302(1)(c)).
38 See Washington Townhomes, LLC v. Washington County Water Conservation District, 2016 UT 43.
39 Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994).
40 Submission dated August 10, 2022.


Advisory Opinion – Wright Development Group Washington, Millcreek Partners v. Washington City, Washington County Water Conservancy District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 22, 2023 Page 13 of 17
There appears to be a genuine disagreement among the parties as to whether or not Water District
is currently pursuing the Lake Powell Pipeline project. The record does not include a definitive
answer on this issue.

It does appear, however, that the Lake Powell Pipeline project was actively being planned for
when in the IFFP and IFA were approved in 2017. Additionally, the Impact Fees Act does not
require that any sort of constant effort be being made towards public facilities for which an impact
fee is charged.

Instead, the Impact Fees Act requires that the IFFP and IFA each include certification that each
only include the cost of public facilities that are “projected to be incurred or encumbered within six
years after the day on which each impact fee is paid.”41 Therefore, the Impact Fees Act requires
a check point that when the IFFP and IFA are approved only public facilities to be
built/encumbered within six years be included. The IFFP and IFA for the water impact fee were
passed in 2017 and there is no evidence in the record to establish the Lake Powell Pipeline project
was not appropriately included. The Impact Fees Act also requires that when the impact fee is
collected, it will only be collected for public facilities to be built/encumbered within six years of
collection. In this case, the water impact fees were collected in 2021 and the Water District
maintains the Lake Powell Pipeline project was still anticipated to be constructed within six years.
It is not clear from the record when efforts to pursue the Lake Powell Pipeline project allegedly
ceased.

The Impact Fees Act includes a provision whereby collected unused fees may be refunded if not
used within six years (or longer if an extraordinary and compelling reason is given for why fees
should be held for longer).42 If work on the Lake Powell Pipeline project is indeed not postponed
for good reason, but instead has been abandoned, the Developer can request a refund in
compliance with Utah Code § 11-36a-603(2)(b) after the six-year period has lapsed.43

Once again, the Developer has raised a valid concern about whether they are being assessed an
impact feel for a facility that will not be constructed. If the Lake Powell Pipeline project is not
moving forward, the Water District should act in good faith accordingly. However, based on the
information provided, the Lake Powell Pipeline appears to have been lawfully included at the time
the IFFP and IFA were passed and the impact fee was paid. The Developer may request a refund
if the funds are not spent as anticipated within six years.

Conclusion: While there remains some gray area as to the actual status of the Lake Powell
Pipeline, and the Developer may later request a refund, the water impact fee meets the
requirements of the Impact Fees Act and appears lawful.

Question 7 - Smaller units require less water than larger units: Is the Water District legally
obligated to charge a lower water impact fee for one-bedroom apartments than two or
three-bedroom apartments?

Developer maintains that in their experience, larger units use more water than smaller units.
Developer further maintains that other jurisdictions recognize the lower impact and charge a
correspondently lower impact fee. Also, lowering the water impact fee for apartment units, as

41 UTAH CODE §§ 11-36a-305 and 306.
42 UTAH CODE § 11-36a-603 Refunds.
43 Similarly, the Impact Fees Act includes an ability to challenge assessed impact fees, including an ability

to challenge whether the fees were spent or encumbered in accordance with the requirements therein.

Advisory Opinion – Wright Development Group Washington, Millcreek Partners v. Washington City, Washington County Water Conservancy District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 22, 2023 Page 14 of 17
compared to single family detached homes, is supported by public policy by promoting
construction of affordable housing options.

Water District maintains that water requirements for one-bedroom units v. larger units are not
reliably different or predictable. As an example, the Water District states that a couple could share
a one-bedroom apartment or a family sharing a two-bedroom apartment could use more water
than a single person living in a two or three-bedroom apartment. The Water District also maintains
that the dynamics are unpredictable and subject to change in the future depending on who moves
in or out and residents’ future habits. Water District is tasked with providing water which meets
changing circumstances over time, also, Water District has adjusted the impact fee charged the
Developer based on other reliable factors.

We first look to whether the Impact Fees Act requires that Water District charge a lower impact
fee for apartments with fewer bedrooms. The Impact Fees Act requires that the Water District
“determine the public facilities required to serve development resulting from new development
activities”44 and also “estimate the proportionate share” of existing capacity and system
improvements that are “reasonably related to the new development activity.”45 The record does
not suggest that the IFFP and IFA do not adequately demonstrate this.

The Impact Fees Act includes a provision for requesting an adjustment to the impact fee assed to
ensure that it is imposed fairly and responds to unusual circumstances in specific cases.46 In
addition, the Water District has incorporated a mechanism for seeking an adjustment by
submitting specific data or studies. The Developer has not requested such an adjustment, nor
provided studies or data which reliably indicate fewer bedrooms correspond to less water
consumption over the life of the project.

Note that the Water District uses the standards established by the Division of Drinking Water for
Equivalent Residential Units then made blanket adjustments lowering the water impact fee for all
multifamily residences. The Water District does not make further reductions based on the number
of bedrooms.

For this impact fee, the Water District provided the information required by the IFFP and IFA when
approving the impact fee and has thus provided an individualized determination that the that the
required dedication is related both in nature and extent to the impact of the proposed
development.”47

Conclusion: The Water District’s practice of assessing one (reduced) water impact fee for all
apartments without further adjustment for the number of bedrooms is lawful.

Question 8 - Reasonably estimated: Developer questions whether all impact fees are
reasonably estimated.

The Developer next asks broadly if all of the impact fees are reasonably estimated. The Developer
asks generally whether their rights have been violated.




44 UTAH CODE § 11-36a-301(1).
45 UTAH CODE § 11+36a-304(1).
46 UTAH CODE § 11-36a-402(1)(d).
47 Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994).


Advisory Opinion – Wright Development Group Washington, Millcreek Partners v. Washington City, Washington County Water Conservancy District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 22, 2023 Page 15 of 17
The Developer has raised several valid concerns regarding the way the City and the Water District
assess impact fees. If we were being asked “is this impact fee fair,” or “is this impact fee ideal” we
might come to different, more nuanced conclusions. The City and the Water District may decide
to reassess their impact fees accordingly.

However, we have been asked whether these impact fees are legal. Because of the way the
Impact Fees Act is written, and how the courts have evaluated impact fee and exaction claims,
once an IFFP and IFA have been prepared and an impact fee enacted, the Developer has the
burden to establish that a specific fee has in fact violated their rights in some way.48 Great
deference is given entities enacting impact fees, as long as proper procedures were followed. As
a result, in investigating the questions presented we do not separately find that Developer’s
statutory or constitutional rights have been violated in connection to impact fees charged by the
City and Water District.

Conclusion: We do not separately find that Developer’s statutory or constitutional rights have been
violated in connection to impact fees charged by the City and Water District.


                                                                 CONCLUSION

We make the following conclusions on each of the eight questions presented:

     1. Habitat Conservation Impact Fee: Until and unless the City provides some sort of
        individualized determination that the impact fee is roughly proportionate to the impact on
        the City to providing the services under the Habitat Conservation Plan and related take
        permit, the Habitat Conservation Impact fee is unlawfully imposed.

     2. Wastewater Treatment Facility and Wastewater Impact Fees: Calculating wastewater
        impact fees based on estimated maximum hourly domestic sewage flow, as calculated in
        the Impact Fee Facilities Plan rather than average daily flow projected by the Developer
        is not prohibited by the Impact Fee Act.

     3. Streets/Roadways: The City and the Developer agree that apartments generally generate
        fewer trips and less of an impact on the roadway system than single-family homes do.
        Accordingly, the City charges a lower impact fee for apartments than for single-family
        homes, and appears to be lawful.

     4. Parks & Recreation: The City is not required by the Impact Fees Act to reduce the parks
        and recreation impact fee assessed because the Developer is providing private recreation
        facilities as part of the apartment development.

     5. Water use standard used: It is lawful for the Water District to use the standard established
        by the Division of Drinking Water as the level of service standard even though it was
        established sixty years ago.




48 For instance, legislative decisions approving impact fees carry “the presumption of constitutionality”,

once the city has “disclosed the basis of its calculations” the impact fee is presumed in accordance with the
constitution and the burden is on the developer to establish their constitutional rights have been violated.

Advisory Opinion – Wright Development Group Washington, Millcreek Partners v. Washington City, Washington County Water Conservancy District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 22, 2023 Page 16 of 17
     6. Funds not required for project: While there remains some gray area as to the actual status
        of the Lake Powell Pipeline, and the Developer may later request a refund, the water
        impact fee meets the requirements of the Impact Fees Act and appears lawful.

     7. Smaller units require less water than larger units: The Water District’s practice of
        assessing one (reduced) water impact fee for all apartments without further adjustment
        for the number of bedrooms is lawful.

     8. Reasonably estimated: We do not separately find that Developer’s statutory or
        constitutional rights have been violated in connection to impact fees charged by the City
        and Water District.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Wright Development Group Washington, Millcreek Partners v. Washington City, Washington County Water Conservancy District
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 22, 2023 Page 17 of 17
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of
the State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from
the date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.
Additionally, a civil penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing
party—if either a land use applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally
violated the law governing that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in § 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are also
designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
