                       Advisory Opinion 283
                     Parties: Jacob and Tamara Schellenberg and Cache County
                                           Issued: January 22, 2024

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                                   Exactions



The County’s ordinances requiring that adjacent roadways meet minimum established roadway
standards a condition of subdivision plat approval is legal on its face. Similarly, the County may
lawfully impose an in-lieu fee as an alternate method of improving the roadway to established
standards.
However, when applied to the circumstances at hand, this standard requires the Property Owners
to bear public burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.
The County may only require that any individual subdivider dedicate and improve the half-width
adjacent to their property as a condition of development. To require dedication and improvement
of the full-width of an adjacent roadway requires the subdivider to pay beyond their impact and
appears to violate both the U.S. and Utah Constitutions takings clauses.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                           (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                        1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                             www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                 propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor               MARGARET W. BUSSE        JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                             Executive Director        Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor



                                                  ADVISORY OPINION

         Advisory Opinion Requested by:                Jacob and Tamara Schellenberg

         Local Government Entity:                      Cache County

         Property Owner:                               Jacob and Tamara Schellenberg

         Type of Property:                             Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                January 22, 2024

         Opinion Authored By:                          Marcie M. Jones, Attorney

                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                                        Issue

         May the county lawfully require a property owner to both (1) pay $163,961 for the improvement
         of the full width of an adjacent local roadway as well as (2) dedicate 0.43 acres of land to allow
         the roadway to be straightened, as a condition of approval for a 3-residential lot subdivision?

                                          Summary of Advisory Opinion

         The county’s ordinances requiring that adjacent roadways meet minimum established roadway
         standards a condition of subdivision plat approval is legal on its face. Similarly, the county may
         lawfully impose an in-lieu fee as an alternate method of improving the roadway to established
         standards.

         However, when applied to the circumstances at hand, this standard requires the property owners
         to bear public burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.
         The County may only require that any individual subdivider contribute to public improvements
         according to the proportionate share of their development impact. It would be roughly
         proportionate to require the property owners to contribute the equivalent of the dedication and
         improvement of the half-width of road improvements adjacent to their property as a condition of
         development. To require dedication and improvement of the full-width of an adjacent roadway
         requires the property owners to pay for more than their own impact and appears to violate both the
         U.S. and Utah Constitutions takings clauses.
                                                  Evidence

The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

                 1. Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Jacob and Tamara Schellenberg on
                    May 22, 2023.

                 2. Letter from K. Taylor Property Owners on behalf of Cache County on July 18,
                    2023.

                                                 Background

Jacob and Tamara Schellenberg (Property Owners) own vacant land located in unincorporated
Cache County (County). The Property Owners are seeking approval of a three-lot residential
subdivision on approximately 36 of the acres. The property abuts 2400 West, also known as
Meridian Road, which is a county road that connects the Town of Paradise with the rest of the
valley. As a condition of approval, County is requiring that the Property Owners pay $163,961.30
as a fee-in-lieu for improvement of the full-width of the adjacent roadway. Additionally, the County
is requiring that the Property Owners dedicate to the public 0.43 acres of property required to
straighten out the roadbed.




The exhibit above shows the proposed 3-lot subdivision as well as the existing roadway. The
0.43 acres to be dedicated to allow straightening of the road bed has been highlighted.

The Property Owner questions whether this fee and land dedication requirement is legal. They
claim that there are many roads in the county which are smaller, gravel roads. When they purchased
the property, the County told them that “very little improvements” were required to satisfy the
current road status, then, without notice, the status of the road was changed and new standards
adopted.

The County maintains that they are simply requiring the Property Owners to meet the standards
established by generally applicable ordinance. The County has also stated that the area of proposed

Advisory Opinion – Schellenberg / Cache County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 22, 2024 Page 2 of 8
development is very rural and fairly mountainous and that areas containing steep slopes are more
costly than developing flat properties. The fee-in-lieu allows the development of a length of
roadway to be completed at one time.

The County is also requiring dedication of 0.43 acres of land so that turns in Meridian Road can
be straightened as it passes the subject property, as required by the adopted roadway standards.
Apparently, cars often get stuck on this section of the road in snowy and icy conditions. Rerouting
the roadway cuts off 0.33 acres of property from development. The Property Owners question
whether this requirement is legal.

The Property Owners believe these exactions require them to give more than their proportionate
share. The Property Owners have therefore requested this Advisory Opinion to answer whether the
County may lawfully require the property owner to both (1) pay $163,961 for the improvement of
the full width of an adjacent roadway as well as (2) dedicate 0.43 acres of land to allow the roadway
to be straightened as a condition of approval for a 3-residential lot subdivision.

                                                 Analysis

When we examine whether an ordinance is lawful, we first ask whether it is legal on its face, or in
other words, whether the ordinance is legal as it written. This inquiry asks whether the ordinance
violates state or federal constitutional or other laws. We next inquire whether the ordinance is legal
as applied to a particular set of circumstances. A law may be within the legal bounds as written,
yet nonetheless exceed authority when applied to a particular instance.

     I.          Counties may require that roadways meet minimum established standards before
                 approving a subdivision plat.

Our initial question is whether the County may require that roadways be improved as a condition
of development. It has not been disputed that the language of the County Code requires that the
roadway width adjacent to the Property be dedicated and improved as a condition of approval of
the Property Owners’ three-lot subdivision.

Cache County Code § 12.02.020 reads “where land abutting an existing substandard roadway is
subdivided or developed, the subdivider or developer must, at the subdivider’s or developer’s
expense, dedicate any necessary rights-of-way and improve the adjacent roadway to conform to
the standards and requirements set forth in the Manual.” The referenced manual incorporates
standards from UDOT and national road experts.

The Property Owners have not disputed that the language of the County Code requires these
improvements. The question, therefore, is whether the County may legally set such standards, and
also, whether these standards are lawful as applied to this subdivision.

It is established that an owner of property holds it subject to zoning ordinances enacted pursuant
to a state's police power. Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U.S. 365, 71 L. Ed. 303, 47 S. Ct. 114
(1926). Police power is “the power of the states to regulate behavior and enforce order within their
territory for the betterment of the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of their inhabitants.”
Police Power, ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNICA (2023, May 25). The U.S. Supreme Court has further

Advisory Opinion – Schellenberg / Cache County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 22, 2024 Page 3 of 8
held that the valid exercise of police power includes land use regulations. See, e.g. Euclid v. Ambler
Realty, 272 U.S. 365 (1926). The enactment of a standard land use ordinance is a legislative
decision subject to the “reasonably debatable” test whereby a reviewing court must presume that
a properly enacted land use regulation is valid and determine only whether “it is reasonably
debatable that the land use regulation is consistent with [applicable state law]” and therefore in the
interest of the general welfare. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-801(3)(a).

The “reasonably debatable” test is, generally, a low bar. On its face, it is “reasonably debatable”
that the disputed requirements are in the interest of the general welfare of the citizens where the
County has a duty to provide streets, sewage disposal, and clean water for residents. Whether or
not a County enacts ordinances that allow for more affordable rural development that would permit
construction of large residential lots without requiring roadway improvement is a policy decision
left to the local elected officials.

Therefore, the answer to the first question is yes, the County may require that the adjacent
roadways meet the minimum established roadway standards as a condition of subdivision plat
approval. Similarly, the County may impose an in-lieu fee as an alternate method of improving the
roadway to established standards.

     II.         Requiring the Property Owner to dedicate and improve the entire width of the
                 adjacent roadway exceeds the impact of development and therefore cannot
                 constitute a valid exaction.

The next step is to apply the standard to the circumstances at hand. May the County lawfully
require the Property Owners to pay $163,961 as an in-lieu payment for roadway improvements
and dedicate 0.43 acres of land to the County as a condition of approval of a three-lot residential
subdivision?

                                     A. The legal standard for development exactions

Cache County’ requirement that the Property Owners pay $163,961 as in-lieu payment for roadway
improvements and dedicate 0.43 acres of land to the County as a condition of approval of a three-
lot subdivision is a development exaction. A development exaction “is a government-mandated
contribution of property imposed as a condition” of development approval. B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v.
Salt Lake County, (BAM III), 2012 UT 26, ¶16.

The Takings Clause of the U.S. Constitution1 protects private property from governmental taking
without payment. It reads, “[n]or shall private property be taken for public use, without just
compensation.” UNITED STATES CONSTITUTION, 5th Amendment. “One of the principal purposes of
the takings clause is to ‘bar Government from forcing some people alone to bear public burdens
which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.’” Dolan v. County of
Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994) quoting Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49, L. Ed. 2d 1554,
80 S. Ct. 1563 (1960).

As a result, generally speaking, the government may not require a property owner to donate land
or improvements to the public unless they are prepared to pay for that dedication. However, a
1 Also Article I Section 22 of the Utah Constitution.


Advisory Opinion – Schellenberg / Cache County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 22, 2024 Page 4 of 8
government entity may require dedication of land and/or improvements as a condition of
development approval to the extent the dedication offsets only the impact the development will
put on the community. Such a requirement will not be considered a taking requiring just
compensation.

Accordingly, an exaction is valid and proportionate only when it offsets the costs of a
development’s impact, and no more. An excessive exaction amounts to an unconstitutional taking
where it requires a property owner to pay for impacts beyond his own. Banberry Development
Corporation v. South Jordan County, 631 P.2d 899, 903 (Utah 1981). A principal objective of the
test is to “bar Government from forcing some people alone to bear public burdens which, in all
fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.” Armstrong v. United States, 364
U.S. 40, 49 (1960). Therefore, the community may require dedication of land or construction of
public resources such as roadways and water lines as long as the requirements offset only the
impact of proposed development.

The determination of how to measure whether the dedication offsets the impact of development
has been termed the “rough proportionality test,” and was established in the groundbreaking U.S.
Supreme Court cases Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825 (1987) and Dolan v.
County of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994) and codified in UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1).

           A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in
           a land use application . . ., if:

           (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
               exaction; and,

           (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact
               of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1) (emphasis added). If a proposed exaction satisfies this test, and is
otherwise legal, it is valid. If the exaction fails the test, it violates protections guaranteed by the
Takings Clauses of the Utah and U.S. Constitutions and is illegal. Call v. West Jordan, 614 P.2d
1257, 1259 (Utah 1980). Accordingly, we next analyze the exactions to determine whether they
satisfy the rough proportionality test.

 B.          Essential link exists between legitimate governmental interest and the required exaction

The first part of the rough proportionality test, as codified in UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1) requires
an essential link between a legitimate governmental interest and the exaction imposed. The
County’s requirement to dedicate and improve property along the right-of-way along Property
Owners’ frontage is based in the County’s legitimate interest in protecting and promoting public
health, safety, and welfare. “In order for a government to be effective, it needs the power to
establish . . . public throughways. . . for the convenience and safety of the public.” Carrier v.
Lindquist, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18.

Accordingly, the essential link portion of the rough proportionality test is satisfied.



Advisory Opinion – Schellenberg / Cache County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 22, 2024 Page 5 of 8
                              C. Nature aspect of the rough proportionality test satisfied

The next step in the rough proportionality test requires that “each exaction is roughly
proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the proposed development.” UTAH CODE
§10-9a-508(1)(b). The nature aspect of the rough proportionality test requires that an exaction
provide a solution to a problem the proposed development presents. The Property Owners propose
to divide their acreage into three residential lots. The roadway adjacent to and directly serving the
Property lacks an improved roadway. The proposed development is in a very rural area at the base
of a collection of hills in an unincorporated portion of the County.

The required land dedication is immediately adjacent to the property and once improved with the
required in-lieu fee, would provide access to the residents and guests of the proposed residences.
Therefore, the exaction directly provides a solution to the problem the proposed development
creates. Accordingly, the nature aspect of the test is satisfied.

                                   D. Extent aspect of the rough proportionality test exceeded

In the final step of the rough proportionality test, the County must “compare the government’s cost
of alleviating the development’s impact on infrastructure with the cost to [the developer] of the
exaction,” therefore looking at whether the exaction is proportional in extent. B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C.
v. Salt Lake County, 2012 UT 26, ¶5, 282 P.3d 41.

The Utah Supreme Court has provided a single example of how to balance extent. Id. In B.A.M. II,
the Court held that requiring the dedication of 13 feet of right-of-way for the expansion of an
adjacent roadway as a condition of approval of a fifteen-acre residential subdivision satisfied the
extent aspect of the rough proportionality test. In that case, traffic engineers estimated increased
traffic from the planned subdivision represented 5% of the total area-wide traffic increase yet the
cost of the disputed dedication amounted to only 1% of area-wide road improvement projects.2
Therefore, the Court concluded that the exaction was less than the impact and did not violate the
extent aspect of the rough-proportionality standard.

In the case at hand, “[n]o precise mathematical calculation is required” however, the County must
nonetheless make “some sort of individualized determination that the required dedication is related
both in nature and extent to the impact of the proposed development.” See Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391-
92 (emphasis added).

The County has not provided a monetary cost for the impact of the proposed development. Instead,
the County provides a logical argument that the proposed development is in a very rural area at the
base of a collection of hills in an unincorporated portion of the County. By developing on this site,
the Property Owners are pulling County services, including roadway improvements, beyond their
current limits. The County maintains that the development will result in an increase in traffic from
trash collection, snow removal, school bus trips, deliveries, EMS, fire, law enforcement, as well
as domestic trips – all of which will impact on County roads.



2
 The estimated value of total area-wide road improvements was $6,748,700 and the value of the property to be
dedicated was $83,997, representing 1.2% of the total.

Advisory Opinion – Schellenberg / Cache County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 22, 2024 Page 6 of 8
The County states that it is only requiring that the applicant fund the portion of the frontage
adjacent to their development. The County explains, without giving specific dollar figures or
pointing to particular proposed improvement projects, that the total cost and impact for all county
road improvements in the area will be hundreds of thousands of dollars. The County is requiring
that the Property Owner pay the actual cost estimate provided by the Property Owner’s own
engineer, of improving that portion of the roadway abutting the proposed subdivision.

While logical, the County’s argument is not substantiated by sufficient detail to allow us to
perfectly evaluate the lawfulness of the exaction. Indeed, we note that in our years of writing
Advisory Opinions on exactions, such detailed information has never been available and may be
out of reach for the standard land use application. As a result, and in an attempt to resolve disputes,
past Advisory Opinions have articulated a commonly used industry standard:

           It is common for a county to exact the dedication and construction of a half-width
           of a road, curb, gutter, etc., along the entire frontage of the property. This half-width
           frontage dedication and construction is common practice and generally accepted
           as roughly proportionate to a typical road impact. An abutting half-width generally
           does not require one developer to provide improvements that others should provide
           — i.e., the opposite abutting landowner typically provides the other half-width.3

The requirement for a subdivider to dedicate and improve the half-width of the local roadway
fronting the property is a common standard, and one that appears to be widely credible throughout
the development community. It is grounded in the need for a practical, straight-forward standard
to apply in the thousands of land use application approvals made across the state each year.

This half-width standard corresponds to the legal standard explained in relevant Utah court cases
and is reasonable on its face. If everyone in the County improves the local roadway half-width
adjacent to their property when they develop, we have local roadways that we all can use. Larger
lots require more roadway and smaller lots require less roadway - thus balancing proportionality.

In this case, the County is asking for the Property Owner to dedicate the land under the full width
of the straightened roadway, as well as pay the value to improve the full width of the adjacent
roadway. This requires the Property Owner to pay beyond their own impact. It exceeds the half-
width standard. In the absence of detailed analysis establishing otherwise, the County may lawfully
require the Property Owner to pay an in-lieu fee equivalent to improving the half-width of the
roadway, and dedicate land required to improve the half-width of the straightened roadway. The
County may exact the other half-width when owners on the far side of the road develop. If the
County is unwilling to wait for development on the other side of the road to occur, the County
must be prepared to bear the remaining share of the public’s burden for its desired road project
that is intended to benefit the larger community.

Consequently, the County’s requirement to dedicate the full width of the straightened-out portion
as well as an in-lieu fee to improve the full width of the adjacent roadway exceeds Property
Owners’ impact on development and appears to violate the takings clause.

3
  Ombudsman Advisory Opinion 205. See also Ombudsman Advisory Opinions 221 and 180. While not legally
binding, our Office does endeavor to issue opinions using consistent analysis and reasoning.

Advisory Opinion – Schellenberg / Cache County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 22, 2024 Page 7 of 8
                                                 Conclusion

The county’s ordinances requiring that adjacent roadways meet minimum established roadway
standards as a condition of subdivision plat approval is legal in general and on its face. Similarly,
the county may lawfully impose an in-lieu fee as an alternate method of improving the roadway to
established standards.

However, when applied to the circumstances at hand, this standard requires the property owners
to bear public burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.
The County may only require that any individual subdivider contribute to public improvements
according to the proportionate share of their development impact. It would be roughly
proportionate to require the property owners to contribute the equivalent of the dedication and
improvement of the half-width of road improvements adjacent to their property as a condition of
development. To require dedication and improvement of the full-width of an adjacent roadway
requires the property owners to pay beyond their impact and appears to violate both the U.S. and
Utah Constitutions takings clauses.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Schellenberg / Cache County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 22, 2024 Page 8 of 8
NOTE:
This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not constitute
legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of
Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a
summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may not
reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.
While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.
An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.
Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in § 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are also
designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
