                     Advisory Opinion #211
        Parties: Ida Marie Ruch on behalf of homeowners within the Eagle Valley Ranches
                                   neighborhood; Iron County
                                     Issued: June 18, 2019

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                       Interpretation of Ordinances

Counties have no legal obligation to maintain Class D roads, even where residents dedicated
the roadways to the County in response to the County or School District’s request.

Counties must apply and enforce all currently applicable land use ordinances. The County
Commission may consider and approve future rezoning requests and proposed changes to land
use regulations.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                                State of Utah
                                Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT                 OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
   Governor
                                 FRANCINE A. GIANI    BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX                  Executive Director   Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                                 ADVISORY OPINION
         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                 Ida Maria Ruch on behalf of homeowners within the
                                                        Eagle Valley Ranches neighborhood

         Local Government Entity:                       Iron County

         Type of Property:                              Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 June 18, 2019

         Opinion Authored By:                           Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                        Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                        ISSUES
            I.        Is Iron County legally obligated to the residents of the Eagle Valley Ranches
                      neighborhood to maintain 1700 West and 5400 North?

           II.        Must Iron County honor the R-5 zoning already established throughout the Eagle
                      Ranches subdivision?


                                          SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
         Iron County has no legal obligation to maintain Class D roads, including those portions of 1700
         West and 5400 North within the Eagle Valley Ranches neighborhood. The fact that Eagle Valley
         Ranches residents dedicated these roadways to the County in response the County or School
         District’s request does not change that conclusion nor trigger any obligation.

         Iron County must apply and enforce all currently applicable land use ordinances, including those
         relating to the R-5 zoning classification. However, the Iron County Commission may consider
         and approve future rezoning requests and proposed changes to land use regulations.

                                                      REVIEW
         A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
         decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Ida Maria Ruch on behalf of residents of
Eagle Valley Ranches on April 25, 2019. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to
Jonathan T. Whitaker, County Clerk for Iron County, 68 South 100 East, PO Box 429, Parowan,
Utah 84761. Iron County received the request on May 7, 2019.

                                                      EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for Advisory Opinion, with attachments, submitted by Ida Maria Ruch, resident
        of Eagle Valley Ranches and on behalf of residents of Eagle Valley Ranches, received
        April 25, 2019.
     2. Response submitted by G. Michael Edwards, with attachments, Iron County Attorney,
        received May 22, 2019, corrected on May 23, 2019.
     3. Response submitted by Ida Maria Ruch, with attachments, submitted by Ida Maria Ruch,
        resident of Eagle Valley Ranches on behalf of residents of Eagle Valley Ranches,
        received May 29, 2019.
     4. Response submitted by Ida Maria Ruch, submitted by Ida Maria Ruch, resident of Eagle
        Valley Ranches on behalf of residents of Eagle Valley Ranches, received June 3, 2019.

                                                     BACKGROUND
Eagle Valley Ranches is a large-lot residential neighborhood in unincorporated Iron County,
Utah. According to information provided by the County, the original developer of Eagle Valley
Ranches divided this area into residential lots of five to twenty acres each. These lots have
vehicular access off 1700 West and 5400 North, both of which were originally private roads.
This neighborhood was created prior to the adoption of the current Subdivision Construction
Design Standards, but apparently complied with regulations then in effect.

In 2006, the Iron County School District (“School District”) sought to place a sewer line within
the existing roadway easement for 1700 West to serve Three Peaks Elementary School, then
under construction nearby. In conjunction with Iron County School District, Cedar City, and
Enoch City, Iron County reached out to Eagle Valley Ranch property owners (“Property
Owners”) seeking concurrence in placing the sewer line within the existing roadway easement
then owned and maintained by the Property Owners. According to meeting minutes, as part of
the proposed sewer line construction, one stub out to each lot on 1700 West would be provided at

Advisory Opinion – Eagle Valley Ranch Neighborhood
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 18, 2019        Page 2 of 6
no cost and the customary $800 connection fee would be waived. See Minutes of the Eagle
Valley Ranches Owners Association and Water Company Special Meeting held April 14, 2006, p.
1. Property Owners were also advised that according to County policy then in effect, any future
subdivision of their property would require the roadway be dedicated to the public.

As the County preferred, rather than merely grant the School District use of the existing roadway
easement, Property Owners instead deeded 1700 West within their neighborhood to Iron County
(“County”). Property Owners also deeded that portion of 5400 North within the neighborhood to
the County, although it is not clear from the record when this occurred.

Meeting minutes indicate that the School District assured Property Owners that it would return
the road to “as good or better condition as before they started construction.” See Minutes of the
Eagle Valley Ranches Owners Association and Water Company Special Meeting held April 14,
2006, pp. 1 – 2. The Property Owners assert that the School District did not live up to this
promise and complain that 1700 West was left with emerging sinkholes, numerous potholes, and
uneven skim patching within the roadway as well as a steep drop off adjacent to the newly
constructed sewer line. Property Owners state that the road has now deteriorated to the point that
it is an extreme safety hazard.

In materials submitted, Property Owners request that the County repair the paved sections as
needed, grade the gravel sections regularly, keep the weeds on the shoulders mowed, and plow
the snow in the winter.

The Iron County code states that only those roads improved to established County roadway
standards and adopted in to the Class B roadway system will be maintained by the County. IRON
COUNTY CODE § 12.04.060. Therefore, the County has determined they have no current
obligation to maintain 1700 West and 5400 North, neither of which are Class B roads.

The Property Owners have requested this Advisory Opinion to determine whether Iron County
has a legal obligation to repair and maintain 1700 West and 5400 North within the Eagle Valley
Ranch neighborhood. The Property Owners have also requested that this Advisory Opinion
address whether or not the County must maintain and enforce the current R-5 zoning.

                                                     ANALYSIS
     I.          County’s obligation to maintain 1700 West and 5600 North

State law classifies all existing roadways within the state. This classification system determines
jurisdiction and control of existing roads, and allocates responsibility for road construction and
maintenance. The classification system is as follows:

          Class A Roads: State highways are designated as Class A state roads and fall under the
           jurisdiction and control of the state. See UTAH CODE §72-3-102. State law provides that
           “[t]he department shall construct and maintain each state highway using funds made
           available for that purpose.” UTAH CODE §72-3-102(5).

Advisory Opinion – Eagle Valley Ranch Neighborhood
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 18, 2019        Page 3 of 6
          Class B Roads: County roads are designated Class B roads, and include all public
           highways, roads, and streets within the state that lie outside incorporated municipalities,
           are not designated as state highways, and have been designated as County roads. See
           UTAH CODE §72-3-103. State law provides that “[t]he county shall construct and
           maintain each county road using funds available for that purpose.” UTAH CODE §72-3-
           103(5).

          Class C Roads: City streets are Class C roads, which generally include those highways,
           roads, and streets within the corporate limits of the municipalities. See UTAH CODE §72-
           3-104. State law regulates the use of Transportation Funds set aside for Class C roads
           and regulates their maintenance in certain situations. See UTAH CODE §72-3-104(5 – 8).

          Class D Roads: Class D roads are all those which do not fit into another category. They
           include “any road, way, or other land surface route that has been or is established by use
           or constructed and has been maintained to provide for usage by the public for vehicles
           with four or more wheels that is not a class A, class B, or class C road . . .” UTAH CODE
           §72-3-105(1).

           State law does not include any obligation to construct or maintain Class D roads. For
           example, see UTAH CODE §72-3-105. Also, state law allows, but does not require,
           counties to allocate a portion of road funds to maintain Class D roads. The relevant
           statute provides that “[a] county or municipality may . . . use up to 30% of . . . road funds
           allocated to the county or municipality to . . . maintain class D roads.” UTAH CODE § 72-
           2-110.

Iron County has not adopted either 1700 West or 5400 North into the Class B road system. It
follows that because these roads have not been designated Class B roads, are not a part of the
state highway system (Class A), or lie within a city (Class C), by default, these are Class D roads.

State law gives counties broad discretion to adopt road policies which do not conflict with state
law, providing that “a county may enact ordinances and make regulations not in conflict with law
for the control, construction, alteration, repair, and use of all public roads and highways in the
county outside of cities and towns.” UTAH CODE § 17-50-309.

Iron County has determined that it will not spend taxpayer money improving or maintaining
Class D roads. This decision is within Iron County’s discretion. As mentioned above, state law
does not obligate counties to construct or maintain Class D roads nor does it require
transportation funds be spent on their improvement.

Instead, the County has determined to maintain only those roads which have been brought up to
County standards and adopted into the Class B roadway system. See IRON COUNTY CODE §
12.04. Iron County has established criteria for accepting roads into the Class B system. See id.
These criteria include “roads within existing subdivisions are required to be brought up to an


Advisory Opinion – Eagle Valley Ranch Neighborhood
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 18, 2019        Page 4 of 6
acceptable county maintenance standard. This may be accomplished by the formation of a
special improvement district.” IRON COUNTY CODE § 12.04.060.

In the record, Property Owners repeatedly argue that their situation should be treated differently
because the County came to them with the request for the road right of way, which they
graciously complied with. Property Owners further argue that much of the road maintenance
required on 1700 West is needed because the road was damaged during sewer line construction
and never adequately repaired. Property Owners feel they have been treated unfairly and that
they believe “County officials have not lived up to their moral and professional obligation to
make sure promises made were kept”. See Response submitted by Ida Maria Ruch, with
attachments, submitted by Ida Maria Ruch, resident of Eagle Valley Ranches on behalf of
residents of Eagle Valley Ranches, received May 29, 2019.

The County depicts the situation in a different light. The County maintains that it was the School
District, and not the County, that needed the sewer line right of way, and that it was the School
District which promised to perform any post-construction repairs. The County further points out
that in discussions leading up to the roadway dedication, Property Owners were told that the
roads would need to be brought up to current County road standards before the County would
begin their maintenance. See Minutes of the Eagle Valley Ranches Owners Association and
Water Company Special Meeting held April 14, 2006, pp. 2 – 4.

In materials submitted, the County explains that it is more expensive to maintain roads that do
not meet County standards. Poorly engineered or constructed paved roads are costly to maintain
and dirt and gravel roads must be periodically leveled and graded. The County has determined
that it is unfair to expect the majority of taxpayers to pay for improvements that benefit only a
limited number of residents, and therefore, will not use County funds to improve roads within
subdivisions not meeting current standards.

The adopted policy of not improving or maintaining Class D roads is within the County’s
discretion to make. Unfortunately for the Property Owners, the County does not recognize an
exception to this policy for Class D roadways they requested ownership of, or where another
government entity failed to live up to their promises. While Property Owners assert that, given
the history, the County has a moral obligation to repair and maintain these roads, we cannot find
legal support for this position.

Because state law does not require the maintenance of Class D roads, the County is well within
their authority to require that roads be brought up to established County standards and adopted
into the Class B roadway system before taking on responsibility of for their maintenance.
Accordingly, Iron County has no legal obligation to maintain Class D roads generally, and 1700
West or 5400 North in particular.

     II.         County’s obligation to honor current R-5 zoning classification

As a matter of law, Iron County must apply and enforce the currently applicable land use
ordinances, including those relating to the R-5 zoning classification. See generally IRON

Advisory Opinion – Eagle Valley Ranch Neighborhood
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 18, 2019        Page 5 of 6
COUNTY CODE § 17.72. However, the County Commission has broad authority to adopt and
amend zoning ordinances, and other land use regulations, as part of their authority to promote the
public welfare. See for example UTAH CODE § 17-27a-102. Therefore, rezoning requests and
changes to the existing land use requirements in the R-5 zone may be considered and approved
according to the established process at any time in the future.

                                                     CONCLUSION
Iron County has no legal obligation to maintain Class D roads, including those portions of 1700
West and 5400 North within the Eagle Valley Ranches neighborhood. The fact that Eagle Valley
Ranches residents dedicated these roadways to the County in response the County or School
District’s request does not change that conclusion nor trigger any obligation.

Iron County maintains only those roads accepted into their Class B roadway system. If Eagle
Valley Ranch residents improve portions of these roadways to established County road standards,
the County will add them to the Class B schedule and begin maintaining them. The County has
offered assistance to residents in creating a Special Improvement District (SID) toward this end.

Iron County must apply and enforce all currently applicable land use ordinances, including those
relating to the R-5 zoning classification; however, the Iron County Commission may consider
and approve future rezoning requests and proposed changes to land use regulations.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Eagle Valley Ranch Neighborhood
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 18, 2019        Page 6 of 6
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.




Advisory Opinion – Eagle Valley Ranch Neighborhood
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 18, 2019        Page 7 of 6
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:

           Jonathan T. Whitaker, County Clerk
           Iron County
           68 South 100 East
           PO Box 428
           Parowan, Utah 84671


On this 18th Day of June, 2019, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered via the
United States Postal Service, postage prepaid, and certified mail, return receipt requested and
addressed to the person shown below.




_____________________________________________________
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Eagle Valley Ranch Neighborhood
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 18, 2019        Page 8 of 6
