                       Advisory Opinion 266
                        Parties: Christensen Farms Lots LLC / Wasatch County
                                            Issued: March 24, 2023

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                Compliance with Land Use Regulations

                                        Subdivision Plat Approval

The county code’s requiring a development agreement for all “Large Scale”
subdivisions did not violate state law’s prohibition on development agreements as
the “only” option for development land within a county, because the applicant
either has the alternative to develop as a “Small Scale” subdivision without an
agreement, or else may choose a development agreement “alternative” by
recording a “development approval memo.” The county code’s allowance of an
alternative to a development agreement through a recorded development approval
memo does not amount to a wrongful lien because it is a choice selected and
signed by the applicant.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          (801) 530-6391
                      PO Box 146702                                                       1-877-882-4662
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                            www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor
                          MARGARET W. BUSSE       JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                          Executive Director       Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                ADVISORY OPINION


          Advisory Opinion Requested By:              Christensen Farms Lots, LLC

          Local Government Entity:                    Wasatch County

          Applicant for Land Use Approval:            Christensen Farms Lots, LLC

          Type of Property:                           Undeveloped residential

          Date of this Advisory Opinion:              March 24, 2023

          Opinion Authored By:                        Richard B. Plehn, Attorney
                                                      Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                      ISSUES

          Does Wasatch County Code violate state law’s prohibition on requiring development agreements
          as the only option for development where the code requires a development agreement “or
          equivalent” recorded approval memo for any conventional subdivision greater than five lots?

                                           SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

          State law prohibits a county from requiring a development agreement as the only option for
          developing land within a county. A comprehensive zoning scheme may only require development
          agreements for approval of certain development types chosen by the applicant where there
          otherwise remains a “choice” for conventional development without one. The county code’s
          requirement for a development agreement for all “Large Scale” developments is not illegal where
          the applicant either has the alternative to develop as a “Small Scale” development without an
          agreement, or else may choose a development agreement “alternative” by recording a
          “development approval memo.”

          Moreover, the county code’s allowance of an alternative to a development agreement through a
          recorded development approval memo does not amount to a wrongful lien because it is likewise
          a choice selected and signed by the applicant.

                                                    EVIDENCE

          The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
          completing this Advisory Opinion:
      1. Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Analise Wilson, attorney, on behalf of
         Christensen Farms Lots, LLC, received on October 7, 2022.
      2. Letter from Jon Woodard, Deputy Wasatch County Attorney, received on October 25,
         2022.
      3. Response letter from Analise Wilson, received October 28, 2022.
      4. Response letter from County, received November 3, 2022.

                                                        BACKGROUND

Ivory Development, LLC ("Ivory") and CLW Development, LLC purchased sixty acres of real
property in unincorporated Wasatch County ("County”) with plans to codevelop the Property as
Christensen Farms Lots, LLC.

Over the course of a year, Ivory engaged with the County in development discussions for a
concept plan that anticipated a development agreement to obtain a density above the limits
provided in County Code in exchange for the donation of a regional park. The result of that
process was ultimately a plan approved by the County Council that was not in line with Ivory’s
goals.

Starting over, Ivory submitted a new development application seeking administrative approval
under the existing land use provisions by subdividing the property into 62 one-acre lots. County
Code provides for certain defined development types, and conventional subdivisions are
classified as either “Small Scale Development” (no more than five lots or equivalent residential
units) or “Large Scale Development” (more than five lots or units).1 The County returned some
red-line comments, including a requirement that as a “large scale” subdivision, County Code
required the applicant to enter into a development agreement with the County. Ivory raised some
opposition to the requirement, and as a result, the County amended its code to provide for an
“equivalent alternative to development agreements,” which instead provides that an applicant may
request, in lieu of a development agreement, a “development approval memo” which is recorded
against the property at the time of final plat, and includes things such as vesting date, DRC reports
and conditions of approval, minutes of public meetings, Will-Serve letters, architectural
renderings, landscape plans, total units/ERU’s granted, etc.

Ivory believes that this alternative is more onerous than the negotiated development agreement,
arguing that it is wholly unnecessary to have all development approvals and supporting
documents recorded against real property and amounts to a permanent encumbrance on private
property and a wrongful lien. Ivory has requested an Advisory Opinion to determine whether the
County may require the recording of the “Development Approval Memo” as a condition of
developing property in the zone.

                                                         ANALYSIS

Utah’s Land Use Development and Management Act (“LUDMA”), as applicable to counties, is the
enabling state statute that authorizes counties to enact local land use regulations, and provides
that in order to accomplish the purposes of the Act, a county “may enact all ordinances,
resolutions, and rules and may enter into other forms of land use controls and development
agreements that the county considers necessary or appropriate for the use and development of
land within … the county.” UTAH CODE § 17-27a-102.

1
    WASATCH COUNTY CODE 2002 (“WCC”) § 16.27.04.

Advisory Opinion – Christensen Farms / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 24, 2023 Page 2 of 7
Local land use regulations enacted pursuant to the Act are presumed valid unless “expressly
preempted by, or was enacted contrary to, state or federal law.” UTAH CODE § 17-27a-801(3)(a).

There are two principal ways in which a local land use law can be contrary to state law that are
relevant to this opinion. First, to the extent that a local land use regulation conflicts with express
provisions of LUDMA on a particular subject, state law controls. Second, a local land use
regulation may not authorize the county to take any action that would be “expressly preempted”
or contrary to some other state statute outside of LUDMA.

Therefore, the questions to be answered for this advisory opinion are:

     (1) Whether Wasatch County’s Development Agreement and Development Approval Memo
         regulations violate LUDMA’s prohibitions that a Development Agreement be the only
         option to develop property; and
     (2) Whether the Development Approval Memo is preempted by, or contrary to, Utah’s
         Wrongful Lien Act?

     I.          County Code Provides Limited, but Sufficient, Options for Developing Land
                 Without a Development Agreement

Development Agreements are a valid land use tool under LUDMA. Development Agreements may
either be used pursuant to a legislative process to craft certain deviations from enacted standards
in exchange for certain public benefits on an ad-hoc basis, or else as an administrative tool to
implement an existing land use regulation as an administrative act. UTAH CODE § 17-27a-
528(2)(a)-(b). What LUDMA does not allow a county to do, however, is to “require a development
agreement as the only option for developing land within the county.” Id. § 17-27a-528(2)(c). In this
instance, we are only dealing with “administrative” development agreements—those employed in
the approval of a land use application pursuant to enacted development standards.

When interpreting a statute, the primary goal is to ascertain the legislature's intent, the best
evidence of which is the plain language of the statute itself. Ragsdale v. Fishler, 2020 UT 56, ¶
29. The plain language of a statute is to be read as a whole and its provisions interpreted in
harmony with other statutes in the same chapter. Selman v. Box Elder County, 2011 UT 18, ¶ 29
(citations omitted).

LUDMA defines “Development Agreement” to mean “a written agreement . . . between a county
and one or more parties that regulates or controls the use or development of a specific area of
land.” The term “agreement” denotes a valid legal contract, which is based upon the principle that
parties should be able to bargain between them as they see fit, and thereby enjoy the benefit of
their bargain. This concept of a bargained-for performance or return promise is known as
consideration, and is an essential element of a valid contract. Indeed, “[w]here consideration is
lacking, there can be no contract.” General Ins. Co. of Am. v. Carnicero Dynasty Corp., 545 P.2d
502, 504 (Utah 1976).

Recognizing that an agreement must entered into voluntarily and mutually agreed to, it is
antithetical that a development agreement can be compulsory, as that would amount to a contract
that lacks legal consideration. However, LUDMA’s prohibition on development agreements as the
“only option” for development is plainly stated. That is, assuming a landowner has at least some
choice to develop land pursuant to enacted and plainly stated development standards without the
need to negotiate terms with the county through a development agreement, a county’s imposition
Advisory Opinion – Christensen Farms / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 24, 2023 Page 3 of 7
of a development agreement requirement on other particular types of development “options”—
selected by the applicant within the larger zoning scheme—is permissible.

In this instance, County Code requires a development agreement for all “Large Scale
Developments,” though “Small Scale Developments” may be approved without a development
agreement. See, W ASATCH COUNTY CODE 2002 (“WCC”) § 16.27.23. Because Ivory’s
development subdivides the property into 62 lots, the proposal is considered a “Large Scale”
development. Ivory contends that the County Code’s requiring development agreements for all
Large Scale Developments expressly violates LUDMA as it is the “only option” for developing.
The County argues, however, that because the code “allows” for “Small Scale” subdivisions to be
approved without a development agreement, the county regulations are compliant with LUDMA’s
prohibition on requiring development agreements as the “only” option for developing within the
county.2

Ivory notes that its proposed development is 62 total 1-acre lots, and that it would need to break
up the development into 11 small scale subdivisions, requiring 11 separate applications, to
engineer 11 different plan sets, and to appear at no less than 22 public meetings. This, Ivory
concludes, is not a reasonable “option for developing land within the county” within the meaning
of Section 528(2)(c).

While Ivory’s concerns are well taken—being the Hobson’s choice as it may be for this
developer—the County Code’s allowance for Small Scale Developments without a development
agreement is nevertheless an “option” for developing land wherein a development agreement is
not required, and we cannot conclude that this is in violation of Section 528(2)(c) of LUDMA,
despite any alleged shortcomings as a policy matter. Truly, even if the County had simply enacted
a land use regulation limiting the subdivision process entirely to five lots or less for a single
application and plat approval, we similarly do not believe this would be a per se invalid land use
regulation—though not likely good policy nor conducive to effective community planning.

The standard for whether a local land use regulation is valid is not a “reasonableness” standard
as Ivory is suggesting; rather, it is merely whether it is “reasonably debatable” that the land use
regulation is consistent with LUDMA. UTAH CODE § 17-27a-801(3); see also, Bradley v. Payson
City Corp., 2003 UT 16, ¶ 14 (review of legislative zoning decisions is limited to whether the
ordinance “could promote the general welfare; or even if it is reasonably debatable that it is in the
interest of the general welfare”) (cleaned up). Our Office has noted, on many occasions, that the
reasonably debatable standard is a very low standard, or, in the words of the Utah Supreme Court,
“highly deferential.” Bradley, at ¶ 16. We simply cannot conclude, therefore, that the County’s
requirement for a development agreement on development types other than conventional Small
Scale Developments eliminates Ivory’s development options. Ivory simply cannot achieve the size


2
  The County would do well to proceed with caution, however, as the Code expressly states that for “small
scale developments or site plan approvals, development agreements are only required if the land use
authority determines there are unique circumstances that can be well addressed or memorialized through
a development agreement.” WCC § 16.27.23 (2022). If it is truly the County’s position that Small Scale
Developments are the blessed “option” pursuant to LUDMA’s Section 528(c) that would not require a
development agreement to develop land within the county, the County must understand that it may not
then impose a development agreement, regardless of any “unique circumstances” as the code implies.
Rather, this code’s reference to development agreements for Small Scale Developments under unique
circumstances must only refer to voluntary agreements that are entered into mutually between the county
and applicant. Because otherwise, such an applicant apparently has no development choice, and a
development agreement requirement under these circumstances is therefore compulsory.

Advisory Opinion – Christensen Farms / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 24, 2023 Page 4 of 7
of development it proposes without either being subject to a development agreement or phasing
its development over several approvals.

Additionally, after Ivory raised opposition to the County’s requirement for a development
agreement as a “Large Scale” subdivision, the County in response amended its code to add the
provision on “Equivalent Alternative to Development Agreement,” referred to as a “Development
Approval Memo,” See WASATCH COUNTY ORDINANCE NO. 22-02 (February 16, 2022), which it then
offered as an option to Ivory. This Equivalent option is available in instances of base density where
a development agreement “would otherwise be required,” but provides that “the applicant may
request, and the land use authority may allow” [the] alternative.” WCC § 16.27.23.A (2022). While
the County’s position is that its regulations were compliant with LUDMA before, the County offers
up this newly enacted development agreement alternative as further support that its regulations
do not require a development agreement “as the only option for developing land” within the county.
See, UTAH CODE § 17-27a-528(2)(c).

It is our opinion that allowing for “Small Scale Development” (again, meaning only five lots or less)
without requiring a development agreement is facially enough to avoid a violation of LUDMA by
giving land use applicants at least one option to develop without a development agreement
(regardless of the prudence of effectively limiting conventional development entitlements to no
more than 5-lot subdivisions at a time). Beyond this minimum, however, the code’s additional
allowance of the alternative recorded development approval memo for “Large Scale” subdivisions
otherwise subject to a development agreement further provides a developer yet another “option”
to develop in the County, regardless of development size, without being compelled into a
negotiation of unknowable terms with the County, and similarly satisfies this very basest of
standards found in Section 528(2)(c).

     II.         County Code’s Optional Development Memo is not a Wrongful Lien

Ivory argues that the County’s option for a recorded development approval memo as an
“alternative” to development agreement requirements amounts to an unlawful lien that would
violate Utah’s Wrongful Lien Act (“WLA”), UTAH CODE § 38-9-201 et seq. As discussed, LUMDA
provides that a local land use regulation is presumed a valid enactment of its delegated authority
unless it is “expressly preempted by, or was enacted contrary to, state or federal law.” UTAH CODE
§ 17-27a-801(3)(a). Utah’s WLA defines a “wrongful lien” to include “any document that purports
to create a lien, notice of interest, or encumbrance on an owner's interest in certain real property”
if it is not expressly authorized by statute, authorized by a court, or “signed by or authorized
pursuant to a document signed by the owner of the real property.” UTAH CODE § 38-9-102(12).

To this definition, Ivory asserts simply that the recorded memo is an “encumbrance” that “is not
authorized by state or federal law, and in fact, conflicts with the intent of [Section] 528(2)(c),” and
“is not authorized by court order and will not be signed by the owner of the real property.”

The County views this option of recording a development approval memo as helping to address
issues with development approvals that can still be questioned decades later, and that having key
parts of those approvals recorded gives record notice to ensure the rights and obligations of the
approval are understood and binding on the affected persons, and understood by interested
persons, now and in the future. The County observes that in most local governments, the only
records available over fifty years old are typically recorded documents. Ivory, on the other hand,
argues that the recorded approval memo will “permanently encumber” its property, and that
whereas project approvals of this size commonly undergo modifications and refinement, it is not
workable to continually amend a “memo” recorded on title, and is impossible that the totality of

Advisory Opinion – Christensen Farms / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 24, 2023 Page 5 of 7
the approvals will be accurately reflected from day one of recording, such that the recorded
version of the approval will only create ambiguity for future stakeholders. These concerns are
understandable and well-founded in light of the practical realities of the development process.

While Ivory states that it does not dispute that there may be some value in using the development
memo tool, it nevertheless criticizes it as a “mere record keeping tool” that encumbers its property
without its consent. Granted, there are surely other ways that county planning and development
officials can reliably preserve internal records of the details of development approvals without
overwhelming the county recorder’s office by delegating their own record-keeping needs, or
otherwise passing that obligation onto private title. But in response to Ivory’s wrongful lien
claim, however, the County defends the development approval memo as being “authorized
pursuant to a document signed by the owner of the real property.” See, UTAH CODE § 38-9-
102(12)(c).

The County notes that in order to utilize a development approval memo in place of a development
agreement for those applications where a development agreement would otherwise be required,
it must be requested by the applicant. See, WCC § 16.27.23 (“where . . . a development
agreement would otherwise be required, the applicant may request, and the land use authority
may allow for an alternative means of recording the development approval against the property”).
Additionally, the County notes that for all development applications, the County requires either the
owner to sign the application, or if the application is being signed or made by an agent, the County
requires the agent to show that they are authorized by the owner. WCC § 16.27.05(A)(4).

Even assuming that a recorded development memo would be an “encumbrance” within the
purview of the WLA, see generally, WDIS v. Hi-Country Estates Homeowners Ass'n, 2022 UT 33,
¶ 25 (questioning whether the WLA, with its focus on liens, applies to restrictive covenants as
“encumbrances”), the provision of County Code allowing it very clearly requires that it be
requested by the applicant. We cannot conclude that such an option, requested by the applicant
as part of a signed development application, would ever amount to a wrongful lien as defined in
the WLA.

While we understand the developer’s argument that they feel they are being forced to choose
between a compulsory development agreement and authorizing a permanent encumbrance on
the property, as discussed, the availability of another conventional development method for Small
Scale Development under County Code underscores that these options of either a development
agreement or an equivalent recorded development memo does, in fact, present a legally sufficient
choice.

The restrictiveness of these choices, undoubtedly, may deter certain larger development projects
like Ivory’s or others—whether intentional or not—but the fact remains that the County has
delegated authority and discretion to express certain policy preferences in its land use ordinances.
Those policies do have consequences and result in both incentives and disincentives, but as long
as enacted land use regulations are at least “reasonably debatable” to promote the general
welfare, they do not violate state law, which appears to be the case here.

                                                        CONCLUSION

Wasatch County ordinances do not violate state law in requiring a development agreement, or an
alternative recorded development approval memo, on all Large Scale Developments, insofar as
the landowner may otherwise choose to seek approval of a Small Scale Development without a

Advisory Opinion – Christensen Farms / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 24, 2023 Page 6 of 7
compulsory development agreement. For Large Scale Developments, the Code’s provision
allowing an applicant to forego the required development agreement by requesting a recorded
development approval memo as an alternative does not amount to a wrongful lien under Utah
statute because it is an option authorized by the applicant when the applicant chooses that
development option under the County Code. While restrictive in effect, these provisions and
development options are not illegal forms of land use controls as they are at least reasonably
debatable to promote the general welfare, and therefore comply with state-delegated authority.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Christensen Farms / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 24, 2023 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code.
It does not constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the
opinions or policy of the State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The
opinions expressed are arrived at based on a summary review of the factual
situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may not reflect the
opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his
understanding of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in
this matter. Anyone with an interest in these issues who must protect that
interest should seek the advice of his or her own legal counsel and not rely
on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or advance his
interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
is not binding on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same
issue that is the subject of an advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in
litigation, and that cause of action is litigated on the same facts and
circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of
action from the date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the
court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil penalty may also be available if the
court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use applicant or a
government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and
the opinions, writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the
Property Rights Ombudsman are not admissible as evidence in a judicial
action, except in small claims court, a judicial review of arbitration, or in
determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process.
Advisory Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and
avoid litigation. All of the statutory procedures in place for Advisory
Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the Office of the Property Rights
Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to resolve disputes
in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion attorney
fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah
Code, are also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are
awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if those circumstances are
met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award them.
