                       Advisory Opinion 256
                                Parties: Spencer Packer / Centerville City
                                             Issued: May 11, 2022

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                Compliance With Land Use Ordinances

                                        Subdivision Plat Approval

The City appropriately approved a subdivision that was opposed by an adjoining
landowner who claimed that certain easement interests he held in the subdivision
property would be adversely affected by the proposed subdivision development.
The City’s authority is not to settle quiet title disputes, but to ensure its land use
ordinances have been followed. The City’s ordinances required depiction of all
easements—both those recorded and merely claimed. These ordinances were
satisfied where the City required the plat be noted to depict the disputed nature of
the adjoining landowner’s claimed easements. Whether the eventual use of the
subdivided property will give rise to some private cause of action by the adjoining
landowner for interfering with an easement is a question answerable by the court.


                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                           (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                        1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                             www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                 propertyrights@utah.gov
                             State of Utah
                             Department of Commerce
   SPENCER J. COX            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
      Governor
                             MARGARET W. BUSSE          JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON          Executive Director          Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION


         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                 Spencer Packer

         Local Government Entity:                       Centerville City

         Applicant for Land Use Approval:               Symphony Homes

         Type of Property:                              Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 May 11, 2022

         Opinion Authored By:                           Richard B. Plehn, Attorney
                                                        Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                         ISSUE

         Did the City appropriately approve a subdivision where a neighboring landowner raised a
         disputed easement claim that may be affected by the anticipated development?

                                          SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

         A land use authority is not in a position to adjudicate quiet title disputes, which is the realm of the
         court, and must generally approve land use applications that are compliant with applicable land
         use regulations. The City’s ordinances required preliminary plats to depict existing easements,
         which includes both those recorded as well as those claimed by use. Similarly, final plats are to
         adhere to the same standards as preliminary plats, and require existing easements to be clearly
         labeled and identified.

         In response to a proposed subdivision, a neighboring landowner raised a claim for two easements
         that would be impacted by the anticipated development. The City approved the subdivision and
         the lots as proposed, but imposed conditions that the plat depict the claimed easements as “disputed
         easement areas,” together with plat notes describing the disputed nature of the easements. Because
         the City’s ordinances merely required the depiction of claimed easements, but did not affirmatively
         prohibit approval of the subdivision, the City’s decision approving the subdivision on these
         conditions was proper, and appropriately refrained from opining on a private property dispute.
                                                     REVIEW

A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Title 13, Chapter 43, Section
205 of the Utah Code. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty
to exhaust administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a
land use application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue.
It is hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the
courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Spencer Packer on July 28, 2021. A copy
of the request was sent via certified mail to Janet Denison, City Recorder for the City of
Centerville, 250 North Main Street, Centerville UT 84014, on August 6, 2021.

                                                    EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Spencer Packer on July 28, 2021.
     2. Letter from Robert C. Keller, Attorney for the City of Centerville, on August 30, 2021.
     3. Letter from Kevin E. Anderson and Melvin E. Smith, Attorneys for Symphony Homes, on
        August 31, 2021.
     4. Letter from Spencer Packer on October 24, 2021.
     5. Email from Spencer Packer on November 2, 2021.
     6. Email from Spencer Packer on January 28, 2022.
     7. Email from Lisa Romney, Centerville City Attorney, on March 29, 2022.


                                                 BACKGROUND

Symphony Homes submitted a land use application to Centerville City proposing the “Summerhill
Lane” subdivision, a development proposing several residential lots on an approximately 17.24-
acre parcel. Mr. Packer owns an adjoining narrow strip of land used for agricultural purposes,
which is landlocked1 by the subdivision property.

Mr. Packer alleges that two separate easements cross over the subdivision parcel that provide
access to his property. First, an alleged perpetual 2 rod (33’ wide) fenced and partially paved right-
of-way, traditionally knowns as “Drake Lane,” which both parties acknowledge to be historically

1
 Use of the term “landlocked” is not a conclusion as to whether or not the property has some form of legal right for
access, rather, it is merely “an expression applied to a piece of land belonging to one person and surrounded by land
belonging to other persons, so that it cannot be approached except over their land. Access to such land will normally
be via an easement from surrounding landowner.” BLACK’S LAW DICTIONARY, 878 (6th ed.).

Advisory Opinion – Packer / Centerville
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 11, 2022 Page 2 of 8
recorded by deed when the property was sold in 1908. However, both parties likewise acknowledge
that the easement was not reflected in either the deed from Mr. Packer’s predecessor conveying
the property to him, nor in the deed conveying the Summerhill Lane property to Symphony Homes.
The parties draw differing legal conclusions from these two sets of facts: Symphony Homes
claiming that, while an easement is acknowledged to have existed at one time, it no longer does;
while Mr. Packer claims that the easement continues and has not been legally extinguished. As it
relates to the Summerhill lane development, the Drake Lane easement would encumber the rear
yard of some 14 proposed lots (lots 120-134) that back up to the Packer property.

Secondly, Mr. Packer also claims to have a prescriptive easement to a second right-of-way running
north-south that, in relation to the proposed street layout for the Summerhill Lane development,
connects one of the planned interior streets to the Packer property, and which would effectively
prohibit any development on one particular lot- (lot 120). While Mr. Packer claims that use of this
right-of-way has been open, notorious, and constant for more than twenty years, the owner and
developer dispute the claim for prescriptive rights, alleging that recent use for this right-of-way
had been permissive.

As initially submitted, the proposed preliminary plat submitted by Symphony Homes did not
account for either easement claimed by the Packers. On review for preliminary plat approval, the
information included in the staff report and considered by the Planning Commission included a
letter from Mr. Packer’s attorney asserting the claim for an easement (Drake Lane) in the subject
property and urging action to table, deny, or otherwise condition approval to account for the alleged
easement interest. The letter references the title report performed for Symphony Homes, also
included in the staff report, which notes the Drake Lane easement in the listed exceptions, as well
as a copy of a Notice of Claim of Interest, recently recorded on the subject property March 30,
2021, asserting the Packers’ interest in the subject property for the Drake Lane easement.

At the April 28, 2021 Planning Commission meeting, the claimed Drake Lane easement was
discussed at some length, with members of the commission debating to what extent it should be
considered, or whether any consideration of the easement was involving the City in a private land
dispute. After discussion, the preliminary plat was approved with listed conditions, which included
that the final plat “comply with CZC 15.03.030(l)” (which requires inclusion on the preliminary
plat of all “existing or recorded” easements)2 and that the Plat Note shall show the book and page
number and a notice of claim.”

Mr. Packer initially appealed the preliminary plat approval, arguing that compliance with CZC
15.03.030(l) was required for preliminary plat approval, and that the City erred in approving the
preliminary plat on condition that the Final Plat thereafter comply. The appeal argued that not only
did 15.03.030(l) require inclusion of the Drake Lane easement, but also a separate prescriptive
easement from the north end of the 400 West stub to the Packer property that was not an “easement
of record,” but nevertheless one “claimed by usage.” Mr. Packer later withdrew the appeal
following an agreement that the developer would submit a revised plat that would depict both the
Drake Lane easement as well as the additional prescriptive easement claimed by the Packers. The

2
  CZC § 15.03.030(l) reads as follows: “The preliminary plat shall . . . include the following[:] (l) The location,
principal dimension, and names of all existing or recorded streets, alleys, and easements, both within the proposed
subdivision and within 100 feet of the boundary thereof, showing whether recorded or claimed by usage.”

Advisory Opinion – Packer / Centerville
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 11, 2022 Page 3 of 8
City acknowledged receipt and approval of the amended plat, which had added depictions of
“Disputed Easement Area[s]” 1 and 2 on the plat, as well as the addition of “Note 4” which
provided a lengthy comment on the disputed easement areas by identifying the Packers’ two
easement claims, adding that the claims are “hotly disputed by the property owner and developer,”
and expressly reserving all “rights, claims, defenses and arguments by the property owner and
developer.”

While Mr. Packer withdrew his appeal of the preliminary plat approval, he continued to object to
the City’s ability to approve the subdivision as contradictory to his claimed easements. The
Summerhill Lane application came back before the planning commission on October 27, 2021 for
recommendation for final plat approval. Mr. Packer’s easements claims were again discussed,
including the newly asserted prescriptive easement not addressed at the preliminary plat stage. The
planning commission again wrestled with what to do about the easement claims. The position of
planning staff, as stated by the City’s legal counsel, was that Mr. Packer’s prescriptive easement
claim was not perfected,3 and not shown on the Title report, and therefore was not required by city
ordinances to be shown on the final plat. The planning commission nevertheless recommended
approval of the final plat as proposed (depicting both disputed easement areas) on certain
conditions, one of them being to specify, in the plat notes, the lots affected by the recorded Notice
of Claim of Interest (which pertains only to the Drake Lane easement).

After a public hearing with significant discussion on the easement issues, the City Council initially
tabled the matter of final plat approval for a later date. Then, on December 7, 2021, the City
Council ultimately approved the final plat of the Summerhill Lane development on the following
conditions related to the easement issue:

     1. The Developer shall depict on the Final Subdivision Plat the easement area along the
        northern boundary of the subdivision potentially affecting Lots 120-134 and as previously
        shown on the Preliminary Subdivision Plat and labeled as “Disputed Easement Area 1” and
        the disputed easement over and across Lot 120 as shown on the Preliminary Plat and
        labeled as “Disputed Easement Area 2.”
     2. The Developer shall designate such easement areas with the following description:
        “Disputed Easement Area 1” and “Disputed Easement Area 2,” as previously described on
        the Preliminary Subdivision Plat, along with the notation “See, Note 2 regarding Notice of
        Claim of Interest.”
     3. Revise Note 2 to read: “A Notice of Claim of Interest was Recorded in the Davis County
        Recorder’s Office on March 30, 2021, as Entry 3365360, Book 7727, Pages 2144-2190,
        potentially affecting Lots 120-134 as more particularly designated on this plat as the
        Disputed Easement Areas.”

Under “Reasons for Action,” the City Council set out various findings as support of the conditioned
approval, including that “The City Council finds there is substantial evidence in the record to
support designating the disputed easement areas on the final plat as set forth in the above conditions
as ‘existing or proposed easements’ in accordance with CMC 15.04.030(m).”

3
  To “perfect” an easement is to say that the easement has “perfect title”; that is, it is “good and valid beyond all
reasonable doubt” and “requires no further act from the legal authority to constitute an absolute title to the land taking
effect at once.” BLACK’S LAW DICTIONARY 1486 (6th ed.).

Advisory Opinion – Packer / Centerville
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 11, 2022 Page 4 of 8
Mr. Packer would like an opinion from the Ombudsman as to whether the City has complied with
all City codes and ordinances in approving the Summerhill Lane subdivision with plat notes
reflecting that the easements are disputed.

                                                     ANALYSIS

The jurisdiction of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, in this type of case, is limited
to determining compliance with Utah’s Land Use Development and Management Act (LUDMA),4
which is the enabling act that allows all municipalities to regulate the use of property through their
own legislatively enacted land use ordinances. To that end, a municipality is bound by the terms
and standards of applicable land use regulations and shall comply with mandatory provisions of
those regulations.5

This dispute, in a nutshell, is that the Packers claim certain easement rights in the Symphony
Homes property (disputed by Symphony Homes), and argue that if the Summerhill Lane
subdivision is developed as proposed, this would result in injury to the Packers. This easement
question between the Packers and Symphony Homes may ultimately be resolved by the courts, as
the sole authority to quiet title in real property. The question for us, however, is to what extent the
City plays a role in that dispute as the land use authority responsible for granting approval to
Symphony Homes to subdivide the property, and whether the City has acted appropriately and
complied with its ordinances.

     I.          LUDMA requirements

The land use authority substantively reviews a complete application and takes final action to
approve or deny the application according to its legislated standards.6 An applicant is typically
entitled to approval of a land use application if the application conforms to the requirements of the
applicable land use regulations, land use decisions, and development standards. A municipality
may not impose on an applicant who has submitted a complete application a requirement that is
not expressed in either LUDMA or a municipal ordinance.7 A compliant application is entitled to
approval unless “the land use authority, on the record, formally finds that a compelling,
countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by approving the application.”8 The City made

4
  See UTAH CODE ANN. § 13-43-205 (also, compliance with Utah’s Impact Fee Act, which is not applicable here).
5
  UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(2).
6
  UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509.5(2)(a).
7
  UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(ii), (f).
8
  UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(ii)(A). We believe that a “compelling, countervailing public interest” is akin to
the “compelling state interest” so often discussed by the courts as pertaining to fundamental rights, including private
property rights. Therefore, in certain cases, it could be appropriate for a municipality to deny an otherwise compliant
land use application if it reasonably presents constitutional taking issues. According to Mr. Packer, he claims he would
be injured by the City’s approval of the Summerhill Lane subdivision as amounting to a taking of his property interests.
While not elaborated any further, we make the assumption that this claim is based on the fact that the subdivided lots
anticipate future structures within the easement areas that would materially interfere with his claimed rights-of-way.
While it is certainly true that Utah recognizes certain takings claims “[w]here governmental action, not amounting to
a physical taking, effectively deprives a property owner of reasonable access to property,” Three D Corp. v. Salt Lake
City, 752 P.2d 1321, 1325 (Utah Ct. App. 1988), we express doubts that such a taking is implicated by a subdivision
approval, namely because the subdivision approval merely creates subdivided lots, whereas the deprivation that Mr.

Advisory Opinion – Packer / Centerville
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 11, 2022 Page 5 of 8
no such finding, in this case. The City reviewed he application and found it complied with
applicable ordinances, and granted approval accordingly. Therefore, we must review the City’s
enacted land use regulations to determine whether the City’s decision has adhered to all mandatory
provisions.

     I.          City ordinances

In preparing a preliminary plat for a proposed subdivision, City ordinances require the applicant
to include certain required information, which includes: “[t]he location, principal dimension, and
names of all existing or recorded streets, alleys, and easements, both within the proposed
subdivision and within 100 feet of the boundary thereof, showing whether recorded or claimed by
usage.”9 Additionally, the applicant is required to provide certain documents, which include “[a]
copy of a preliminary title report evidencing satisfactory proof of ownership, other land owners
of interest, including lienholders, legal description of all property within the subdivision, and
easements of record encumbering any property within the subdivision.”10

The City’s final plat standards employ somewhat different language, requiring that “[a]ll existing
and proposed easements shall be clearly labeled and identified.”11 There seems to be a sentiment
within the City that there is a substantive difference between what is required for preliminary plat
and final plat in regards to depicting easements, namely, that while the preliminary plat might
require even mere claims for easements, only “existing” easements need be reflected in the final
plat, which is taken to mean only those easements that have been perfected.

However, this idea is not supported by the City’s ordinances, which provide that “[t]he final plat
and construction plans submitted shall conform in all respects to those regulations and
requirements specified during the preliminary plat procedure.”12 According to the plain language
of the preliminary plat standards, even those easements that are “claimed by usage” are still
considered to be “existing,” even if not “recorded.”

The position of planning staff, as stated by the City’s legal counsel during approval proceedings,
was that neither of Mr. Packer’s easement claims were perfected, and were not required to be
shown on the final plat. Nevertheless, the City Council did, ultimately, require the disputed
easements to be depicted, but allowed plat notation to reflect that the existence of the depicted
easement was in dispute. This effectively created a “notice” to future lot owners within the
subdivision as to the existence of a disputed easement claim by the Packers.

The Packers, however, believe that the City’s ordinances required it to do more, and that adding a
disputed notation simply clouds title and exacerbates the problem, rather than solving it. The
Packers claim that this does not protect the Packers or affected future lot owners, and that the more

Packer appears to anticipate would likely come later, if ever, with the construction of a residential home on the lot
following the approval of an application for a building permit. Even then, the issue may nonetheless be more correctly
characterized as one of whether a servient estate holder has unreasonably interfered with the interests of a dominant
estate holder, instead of as a constitutional takings question.
9
  CENTERVILLE ZONING CODE (“CZC”) 15.03.030(l) (emphasis added).
10
   CZC 15.03.030(y)(3) (emphasis added).
11
   CZC 15.04.030(m) (emphasis added).
12
   CZC 15.04.010.

Advisory Opinion – Packer / Centerville
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 11, 2022 Page 6 of 8
appropriate action for the City to have taken was denial of the application until the easement
dispute was resolved.

The position of both the Packers and City staff would have the City making a conclusion as to the
legitimacy of the Packer’s claimed easement, which places the City in the impermissible position
of adjudicating private rights. The courts are the sole authority to quiet title in real property, where
the involved parties are unable to reach a negotiated resolution.

While Utah law has not directly commented on a municipality’s obligation to consider private
property disputes raised in response to a land use proposal, this concept that land use approval is
not the appropriate venue for quiet title claims has been well articulated in some other states. See,
e.g., Borough of Braddock v. Allegheny County Planning Department, 687 A.2d 407 (Pa. Cmwlth.
1996) (a zoning board is an inappropriate vehicle to deal with complex issues of title, which the
opposing parties should resolve by a quiet title action); see also, Cybulski v. Planning & Zoning
Comm'n, 43 Conn. App. 105, 110, 682 A.2d 1073, 1076 (1996) (planning commission does not
have the authority to determine whether a claimed right-of-way is a public highway, since that
conclusion can be made only by a judicial authority in a quiet title action).

The City’s ordinances require depicting easements on the plat, both those that are recorded, as well
as those that are “claimed by usage.” In response to Symphony Home’s land use application, Mr.
Packer presented the City with arguments and evidence alleging that such easements existed.
However, some City officials incorrectly took it upon themselves to evaluate the credibility of
these claims, whether the Packer’s historically recorded easements should continue to be
considered “recorded” today, or whether Packer’s claimed prescriptive easement was “perfected.”
Because the City has no authority to quiet title, the City is not in a position to determine whether
claims for easements are perfected. Therefore, the only acceptable meaning of the plain language
of the City’s ordinances is that a subdivision applicant must depict all claimed easements raised in
response to the application. That is exactly what the applicant ultimately did, and what the City
required. The final plat appropriately depicts both of the Packer’s claimed easements, both the
historically recorded “Drake lane,” as well as the claimed prescriptive easement.

As for the substantive effect of claimed easements, other than being required to be “clearly labeled
and identified” on the final plat, nothing in the City’s ordinances directs the land use authority to
take any particular action on a proposed subdivision if a claimed easement purports to be
inconsistent with the lots or uses proposed. Therefore, because the final plat complies with City
ordinances, including depicting the disputed easements, the City is required to approve it unless it
formally finds that a “compelling, countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by
approving the application.”13 The City has no authority to evaluate the validity of Packer’s
easement claims. Only the courts can quiet title. In light of this, requiring that the easements be
noted on the plat as disputed only further ensures that the easements are “clearly labeled and
identified” according to the City’s requirements by accurately reflecting the status of the easements
as claimed, and is consistent with the City Council’s authority, as the land use authority, to impose
conditions consistent with the zoning ordinances, while at the same time abstaining from
purporting to resolve any title disputes. Local ordinances do not require that the easement dispute
be resolved prior to subdivision approval.
13
     See supra, note 8.

Advisory Opinion – Packer / Centerville
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 11, 2022 Page 7 of 8
                                          CONCLUSION

The disputed easement claims between the developer and neighboring landowner may only be
adjudicated by the courts, who have sole authority to quiet title in real estate. As for the City’s
involvement as a land use authority, the City appropriately approved the subdivision application
where it imposed conditions that allowed for the claimed easements to be depicted on the plat map
as required by local ordinances. Beyond this, local ordinances did not require that the easement
dispute be resolved prior to subdivision approval.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Packer / Centerville
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 11, 2022 Page 8 of 8
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based
on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are
also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
