                     Advisory Opinion #221

                          Parties: Ryan Bybee, Lindon OW, LLC; Lindon City

                                            Issued: April 21, 2020


                                            TOPIC CATEGORY:

                                        Exactions on Development

The City’s requirement that applicant connect the roadway serving his proposed
development to an existing stub road, including the construction of approximately fifty
feet of off-site roadway, extension of public utilities, and a creek culvert, as a condition to
develop his light industrial real estate project constitutes a lawful exaction. The required
improvements are necessary for, and directly serve, the proposed project, and appear to
be roughly proportionate to the proposed development’s impact on the community.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                            CHRIS PARKER                   JORDAN CULLIMORE
 SPENCER J. COX             Interim Executive Director     Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor



                                                         ADVISORY OPINION


        Advisory Opinion Requested By:                         Ryan Bybee, Lindon OW, LLC

        Local Government Entity:                               Lindon City

        Property Owner:                                        Ryan Bybee, Lindon OW, LLC

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:                       Subdivision plat

        Type of Property:                                      Light Industrial

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:                         April 21, 2020

        Opinion Authored By:                                   Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                               Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                               ISSUE
        Can Lindon City lawfully require the construction of approximately fifty feet of off-site roadway
        and related improvements as a condition to develop a light industrial parcel?

                                         SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        Lindon City’s requirement that Mr. Bybee connect the roadway serving his proposed
        development to an existing stub road at 200 North, including the construction of approximately
        fifty feet of off-site roadway, extension of public utilities, and a creek culvert, as a condition to
        develop his light industrial real estate project constitutes a lawful exaction. The required
        improvements are necessary for, and directly serve, Mr. Bybee’s project, and appear to be
        roughly proportionate to the proposed development’s impact on the community.

                                                             REVIEW
        A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
        decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
        An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
        administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. I t is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Ryan Bybee, dated September 10, 2019.
A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Kathy Moosman, City Recorder for Lindon
City, at 100 North State Street, Lindon, Utah 84042.

                                           EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion submitted by Ryan Bybee and dated September 10,
        2019.
     2. Response Letter submitted by Brian K. Haws, Lindon City Attorney, and dated October
        7, 2019.
     3. Response email from Ryan Bybee dated October 21, 2019.
     4. Response email from Brian Haws dated October 24, 2019.

                                          BACKGROUND

Ryan Bybee recently purchased and is in the process of developing a parcel of real estate located
at 64 North 1550 West in Lindon, Utah (the “Subject Property”). The Property is currently
vacant and will be developed as part of the surrounding commercial and light industrial
neighborhood.

As a condition of development, Mr. Bybee was required to dedicate and improve a roadway
serving the Subject Property. The new roadway cuts through the Subject Property on a diagonal
connecting the existing 200 North stub road (to the northwest) with the existing 1550 West stub
road (to the southeast), in accordance with the Lindon Streets Master Plan Map. The issue under
dispute arises because the 200 North stub road historically was not developed all the way to the
Subject Property boundary line, so recent construction of the connector road included significant
additional expense for off-site improvements.

The 200 North stub road was constructed in 2001 in conjunction with development of the
adjacent Ostler Industrial Park. At that time, the owner of the Subject Property indicated that
they had no immediate plans to develop the Subject Property and did not want to invest in
building the roadway at that time. Consequently, 200 North was built to serve only the Ostler
Industrial Park.

An irrigation ditch runs between the Ostler property and the Subject Property. Until Mr. Bybee
improved the area, the ditch had not been piped and did not have any structures to stabilize the
banks. The roadway and utilities were therefore stubbed back a short distance from the ditch so

Advisory Opinion – Bybee / Lindon City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 21, 2020     Page 2 of 7
that they would not be impacted by erosion caused by the wandering of the natural ditch bank.
Lindon did not require the Ostler Industrial Park developer to install a culvert or other ditch
crossing “as such structures were unnecessary for [the Ostler] development and would have only
benefitted the owner of the [Subject Property].”

As a result, when constructing the connector roadway, Mr. Bybee was required to improve not
only the roadway frontage adjacent to his property, but also the roughly fifty feet of 200 North on
the adjacent property which had yet to be improved. The off-site construction included
extending 200 North approximately fifty feet to the property line, extending an 8” waterline and
other utilities a similar distance, and building a culvert to contain the irrigation ditch under the
new road (the “Off-site Improvements”).

Mr. Bybee objects to being required to pay for the Off-site Improvements. Mr. Bybee argues that
the street and utilities should have been stubbed to the property boundary in anticipation of
future development, or alternatively, funds for their share of the eventual completion should have
been collected from Ostler’s developers. Mr. Bybee further asserts that the ditch has been
surveyed and staked by a professional surveyor and found to be entirely on property owned by
Lindon, and as such, Lindon should be required to pay to have it channelized.

Rather than construct the Off-site Improvements, Mr. Bybee would have preferred that the new
roadway serving his development connect only to the 1550 West stub road to the southeast, with
the new road dead-ending at his new development. Unfortunately, Lindon fire code does not
allow dead-end roadways longer than 650 feet. The roadway Mr. Bybee proposed would have
resulted in a dead-end road of approximately 2,000 feet and was therefore not permitted.

According to Mr. Bybee, Lindon originally agreed to participate in constructing or paying for
these required improvements. However, any agreement was never put in writing and the City
Planner and Assistant Planner who apparently made these representations have since left the
City. Lindon maintains that they are only required to share in the cost of the asphalt. Lindon
further asserts that the required improvements both directly serve and benefit the Subject
Property and are proportionate to the impact created by development proposed on the Property.

Note that Mr. Bybee is not objecting to the dedication and construction of the connector road on
that portion of property immediately fronting his property. He is only objecting to the Off-site
Improvements.

Mr. Bybee is requesting this Advisory Opinion to determine whether requiring the off-site
construction of approximately fifty feet of roadway, extending an 8” waterline and other utilities
a similar distance, and building a culvert as condition to develop a light industrial building is a
lawful exaction.




Advisory Opinion – Bybee / Lindon City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 21, 2020     Page 3 of 7
                                                 ANALYSIS
I.         The legal standard for development exactions

Lindon City’s requirement that Mr. Bybee construct a culvert and extend the utilities and
roadway to the existing 200 North stub road is a development exaction. A development exaction
“is a government-mandated contribution of property imposed as a condition” of development
approval.1 Exactions arise from the principle that development causes impacts to a community.
In order to address and offset these impacts, the community may require dedication of land, or
construction of public improvements such as roadways, sidewalks, and flood control measures.
Such mandatory dedications implicate the Takings Clause of the U.S. Constitution and Article I
Section 22 of the Utah Constitution, which each protects private property from governmental
taking without just compensation.

Development exactions are legal and appropriate only if they are “roughly proportionate” to the
impact the development creates. This principles governing exactions are derived from the U.S.
Supreme Court’s landmark decisions in Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n2 and Dolan v. City
of Tigard3 which the Utah Legislature has distilled and codified in Utah Code § 10-9a-508(1).
The analysis has been termed the “rough proportionality test,” and provides:

           A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in
           a land use application . . ., if:

           (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
               exaction; and,
           (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact
               of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1). If a proposed exaction satisfies this test, and is otherwise legal, it is
valid. If the exaction fails the test, it violates protections guaranteed by the Takings Clauses of
the Utah and U.S. Constitutions and is illegal.4

An exaction is valid and proportionate when it offsets the costs of a development’s impact. An
excessive exaction requires a property owner to pay for impacts beyond his own. 5 A principal
objective of the test is to “bar Government from forcing some people alone to bear public
burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.”6

The Utah Supreme Court has provided further refinement on how to analyze rough
proportionality. In B.A.M. II, the Court explained that rough proportionality analysis articulated
above “has two aspects: first, the exaction and impact must be related in nature; second, they

1
  B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, (BAM III), 2012 UT 26, ¶16.
2
  Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825 (1987).
3
  Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994).
4
  Call v. West Jordan, 614 P.2d 1257, 1259 (Utah 1980).
5
  Banberry Development Corporation v. South Jordan City, 631 P.2d 899, 903 (Utah 1981).
6
  Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960).
Advisory Opinion – Bybee / Lindon City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 21, 2020     Page 4 of 7
must be related in extent.”7 The “nature” aspect focuses on the relationship between the
anticipated impact and proposed exaction. The court described the approach “in terms of a
solution and a problem…. [T]he impact is the problem, or the burden which the community will
bear because of the development. The exaction should address the problem. If it does, then the
nature component has been satisfied.”8

The “extent” aspect of the rough proportionality analysis measures the impact against the
proposed exaction in terms of cost.9 “The most appropriate measure is cost—specifically, the
cost of the exaction and the impact to the developer and the municipality, respectively.” The
court explained that “roughly proportional” means “roughly equivalent.”10 Thus, in order to be
valid, the cost of an exaction must be roughly equivalent to the cost that a local government
would incur to mitigate impacts attributable to development.

Accordingly, the City’s requirement that Mr. Bybee construct the off-site roadway, utilities, and
ditch crossing improvements must satisfy the rough proportionality test. The proposed exactions
must solve problems the proposed development creates. Moreover, the costs to Mr. Bybee to
construct these improvements must be proportionate to the impacts the development imposes on
the City’s ability to provide services.

The City has the burden to show the proposed exactions are proportionate, or equivalent, to the
development’s impacts and therefore valid. Note that “[n]o precise mathematical calculation is
required, but the city must make some sort of individualized determination that the required
dedication is related both in nature and extent to the impact of the proposed development.”11

Accordingly, we analyze the City’s reasons for imposing the exaction to determine “whether
[their] findings are constitutionally sufficient to justify the conditions imposed” on Mr. Bybee’s
development proposal.12

II.        Requirement to build Off-site Improvements does not appear to be excessive

           A.          Essential link exists between legitimate governmental interest and exaction

The first part of Utah Code section 10-9a-508(1) requires an essential link between a legitimate
governmental interest and the exaction imposed. The City’s legitimate government interest in
this case is safe and efficient traffic flow on roadways which are free from flooding and erosion
concerns. Requiring newly constructed roadways to connect to existing stub roads, thus
avoiding excessively long dead-end streets which are difficult for the public and emergency
responders to navigate, is a legitimate method to accomplish this objective.13 “In order for a



7
  B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County (BAM II), 2008 UT 74, at ¶9.
8
  Id. at ¶10.
9
  Id. at ¶11
10
   Id. at ¶8.
11
   See Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391-92.
12
   Id. at 389.
13
   See Carrier v. Lindquist, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18, 37 P.3d 1112, 1117.
Advisory Opinion – Bybee / Lindon City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 21, 2020     Page 5 of 7
government to be effective, it needs the power to establish . . . public throughways . . . for the
convenience and safety of the general public.”14

Accordingly, the essential link portion of the rough proportionality test is satisfied.

           B.          The exaction appears to satisfy the nature aspect of the rough proportionality test

The second step in the legal standard codified as 10-9a-508(1) requires that “each exaction is
roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the proposed development.”15

The nature aspect of the rough proportionality test requires an exaction provide a solution to a
problem the proposed development presents. As has been discussed, Mr. Bybee constructed a
road to serve his proposed development. If Mr. Bybee had not built the Off-site Improvements,
the road serving his property would only been connected to 1550 West and would have resulted
in a dead-end street over the maximum length permitted by the city fire code. Therefore, the
Off-site Improvements directly serve and are necessary for, the proposed development. By
definition, the Off-site Improvements provide a solution to a problem the proposed development
creates. Therefore, the nature aspect of the test is satisfied.

           C.          The exaction appears to satisfy the extent aspect of the rough proportionality test

The extent aspect of the rough proportionality test requires an exaction not exceed the impact of
the development. The City must “compare the government’s cost of alleviating the
development’s impact on infrastructure with the cost to [the developer] of the exaction.”16

To illustrate the proper extent analysis, we have only a single example from the Utah Supreme
Court. In the B.A.M. III17 case, the Court held that requiring the dedication of 13 feet of right of
way for the expansion of an adjacent roadway as a condition of approval of a fifteen-acre
residential subdivision was a legal exaction. In that case, the value of the dedicated property was
estimated at $83,997, while road-widening projects in the vicinity intended to alleviate
generalized increased traffic cost an estimated $6,748,700. Traffic engineers further estimated
that increased traffic from the planned subdivision represented 5% of the total traffic increase,
and was therefore liable for up to 5%, or $337,500, of the road-widening projects in the vicinity.
As the developer’s total cost for the additional 13 feet dedication was $83,997, the Court
concluded that the exaction was less than the impact and did not violate the extent aspect of the
rough-proportionality standard.

In the case at hand, Lindon estimates that the disputed improvements cost $45,248.00 to
construct, thus putting a value on the exaction. However, estimates of the total cost to provide
increasing roadway capacity in the vicinity and what percentage Mr. Bybee’s proposed
development is liable for have not been provided.18
14
   Id.
15
   UTAH CODE §10-9a-508(1)(b).
16
   B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, 2012 UT 26, ¶5, 282 P.3d 41.
17
   Id.
18
   The City instead justifies the cost of the Off-site Improvements as being proportional to the cost and benefit to Mr.
Bybee for the overall project. Such a comparison is not relevant to the established extent analysis.
Advisory Opinion – Bybee / Lindon City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 21, 2020     Page 6 of 7
Nonetheless, we can use the limited information available to resolve the dispute.19 Because the
Off-site Improvements are necessary for the development of the Subject Property, their
construction is part of the impact burden placed on Lindon City. By definition, Off-site
Improvements valued at $45,248 are necessary for, and directly attributed to, the development of
the Subject Property. Therefore, the impact on Lindon is at least $45,248, and they can impose
an equivalent exaction. The exaction appears generally proportional in extent.

As the essential link portion of the rough proportionality test is satisfied, and the exaction
appears generally proportional in nature and extent, the exaction to build the Off-site
Improvements does not appear excessive.

Note that the established legal analysis does not factor in whether Lindon should have required
the developer of the Ostler Industrial Park to either stub the street and utilities to the property
boundary, or collected funds for their eventual completion. Similarly, ownership of the irrigation
ditch property is also not relevant. The established legal test does not require that the exaction be
the best way to provide the improvements. Therefore, these arguments do not affect the legal
analysis or conclusion.

                                                CONCLUSION
Lindon City’s requirement that Mr. Bybee connect the roadway serving his proposed
development to an existing stub road at 200 North, including the construction of approximately
fifty feet of off-site roadway improvements, public utilities extensions, and a creek culvert, as a
condition to develop his light industrial real estate project constitutes a lawful exaction. The
required improvements are necessary for, and directly serve, Mr. Bybee’s project, and appear to
be roughly proportionate to the proposed development’s impact on the community.




Jordan Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




19
   The full analysis required to show rough proportionality is very impractical to provide, and perhaps impossible.
In fact, after many advisory Opinions addressing exactions over several years, this Office has seen none.
Advisory Opinion – Bybee / Lindon City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 21, 2020     Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
63-30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of
Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as
designated in that database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:


                      Lindon City Recorder
                      100 North State Street
                      Lindon, Utah 84042


On this 22nd Day of April, 2020, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
