                       Advisory Opinion 297
                            Parties: Peters Propane Service / Grand County
                                          Issued: October 17, 2024


                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                       Interpretation of Ordinances


The County’s land use table lists “fuel service” as a permitted use in the highway
commercial zone but does not define that use. The code lists gasoline service
stations and convenience stores as examples of fuel service, but also includes
“other fuel service uses.” A proposed propane business that includes mobile
delivery of fuel in addition to certain on-site fueling is not plainly restricted by
applicable land use regulations. Therefore state law directs that the County should
interpret and apply its ordinances to favor the land use application. Liberally
construed, the County’s Land Use code allows for the proposal as a fuel service
use, which is permitted in the Highway Commercial zone.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                       1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                            www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                propertyrights@utah.gov
                             State of Utah
                             Department of Commerce
   SPENCER J. COX            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
      Governor
                             MARGARET W. BUSSE          JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON          Executive Director          Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION


         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                 Shad Peters

         Local Government Entity:                       Grand County

         Applicant for Land Use Approval:               Peters Propane Service LLC

         Type of Property:                              Highway Commercial

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 October 17, 2024

         Opinion Authored By:                           Richard B. Plehn, Attorney
                                                        Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                         ISSUE

         Did the County correctly deny a landowner’s application and site plan by categorizing the proposal
         as fuel product storage – a use not allowed in the Highway Commercial zone?

                                          SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

         The landowner proposes a propane business on a 1.7-acre property in the highway commercial
         zone that includes certain on-site elements of fueling natural gas vehicles and other dispersing of
         propane to direct motor vehicle customers, as well as limited direct retail of propane related parts
         and products, but also includes off-site elements of propane delivery and mobile dispersing of fuel
         for vehicles, such as fueling motor homes at camp sites. Grand County denied landowner’s
         application by determining the principal use to be “fuel product storage” which is not an allowed
         use in the highway commercial zone. Fuel product storage is a listed use under the light industrial
         service category but is not otherwise defined in the land use code.

         The County’s land use table lists “fuel service” as a permitted use in the highway commercial zone
         but does not define that use. The code lists gasoline service stations and convenience stores as
         examples of fuel service, but also includes “other fuel service uses.” A fuel service use that
         includes mobile delivery of fuel in addition to on-site fueling is not plainly restricted by applicable
         land use regulations. Therefore state law directs that the County should interpret and apply its
ordinances to favor the land use application. Liberally construed, the County’s Land Use code
allows for the proposal as a fuel service use, which is permitted in the Highway Commercial zone.

                                                    EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1.          Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Shad Peters, received June 27, 2024, and
                 supporting documentation;
     2.          Planning & Zoning Determination letter, dated August 6, 2024;
     3.          Phone conversations with both parties.

                                                   BACKGROUND

Shad Peters is the principal of Peters Propane Service LLC (“Peters”), which purchased property
in Grand County (“County”), located in the Highway Commercial (HC) zone, for a proposed
propane business. After initially submitting an application and following some discussion with
County officials, Peters resubmitted a revised site plan to the County’s Planning and Zoning
Department for the County’s review.

The revised narrative resubmitted with the application describes the proposal as “the only auto
dispensing propane system in Grand County allowing all vehicles equipped with a propane system
for secondary or primary fuel to fill their vehicle,” and makes reference to impending federal
regulations that will require many municipal and other government vehicles to run on alternative
fuel in coming years. The narrative describes several on-site elements of fueling natural gas
vehicles and other dispersing of propane to customers, such as filling smaller propane tanks and
bottles, as well as limited direct retail of propane related parts and products, and backup generators.
In addition, however, Peters has also described several off-site elements as part of its business
plan, including propane delivery and mobile dispersing of fuel for vehicles, such as fueling motor
homes at camp sites, and other propane-related service and installation.

The submitted site plan shows a total of 1.13 acres of the 1.7-acre parcel as being disturbed area.
The site features a 440sq ft. “office,” two 40’ Conex storage containers (assumed to comprise of a
total approx. 640 sq. ft), some designated areas for parking, a smaller 1,000-gal propane tank, and
a large 30,000 gal capacity propane tank at the center of the property. The site plan shows a truck
path that enters the property, makes a loop around the larger tank and ends in front of the office.

On August 6, 2024, the County’s Interim Planning Director issued a letter in response to the site
plan resubmittal, determining that the proposed use is correctly classified as “Fuel Product Storage
as the principal use with Vehicle Fuel Service and Other Sales-Oriented Uses as accessory uses,”
and concluding that this use is not a permitted use within the HC Zone per Grand County’s Land
Use Code. The County concluded, overall, that the large capacity tank in the center of the property
evidenced that the business would largely function as bulk propone sales and distribution, which
it found more in line with light industrial uses, and that the on-site space for personal and retail
sales—found to be more in line with highway commercial uses—was minimal. In making its

Advisory Opinion – Peters Propane / Grand County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 17, 2024, Page 2 of 6
determination, the County cites to Section 3.4.1 of the County’s Land Use Code, which provides
a list of considerations in determining the appropriate category for certain uses, and made findings
under each item.

Peters requested this advisory opinion to determine whether the County is correct in classifying
the proposed use and determining the proposal does not comply with the County’s Land Use Code.

                                                   ANALYSIS

Utah’s Land Use, Development, and Management Act (LUDMA), found at Title 17, Chapter 27a
of the Utah Code, is the state enabling statute that authorizes counties to enact land use regulations
on property in unincorporated areas of a county. LUDMA affords counties broad discretion in
enacting land use regulations and adopting development standards. However, the rendering of a
decision on a land use application seeking approval under those enacted standards is an
administrative act of a designated land use authority. See, UTAH CODE § 17-27a-308. A land use
authority must apply the plain language of applicable land use regulations when rendering a
decision on a land use application, and if a land use regulation does not plainly restrict a land use
application, that is, where there exists ambiguity in the regulation, the land use authority must
interpret and apply the land use regulation to favor the land use application. Id.

This direction in LUDMA to land use authorities is taken from the longstanding recognition in
Utah law that whereas “zoning ordinances are in derogation of a property owner’s common-law
right to unrestricted use of his or her property, provisions therein restricting property uses should
be strictly construed, and provisions permitting property uses should be liberally construed in favor
of the property owner. Patterson v. Utah Cnty. Bd. of Adjustment, 893 P.2d 602, 606 (Utah Ct. App.
1995).

Grand County’s Land Use Code provides a table of listed land uses allowed in each zoning district
as either a permitted or conditional use, with specific instructions on how to classify land uses and
activities, including how to apply regulations when a development proposes multiple uses. See,
LAND USE CODE OF GRAND COUNTY (“LUC”) § 3.4.1. The Land Use Code also provides a
definition section of defined terms, and directs that defined words should be given the meanings
set forth in the Land Use Code’s definition section, but that “[a]ll other words shall be given their
common, ordinary meanings, as the context may reasonably suggest.” Id. § 10.2.

I.         Fuel Product Storage Does Not Most Closely Correspond to the Proposed Use

The County’s determination letter cites to section 3.4.1 of the Land Use Code, which provides a
basis for land use classification, and considerations regarding principal uses. Namely, it provides
that “[a] principal use is assigned to the use category that most closely corresponds to its nature as
described in the “Characteristics” subsection of each use category. Id. § 3.4.1B.

According to the County’s determination letter, it found that Peters Propane was “Fuel Product
Storage as the principal use with Vehicle Fuel Service and Other Sales-Oriented Uses as accessory
uses,” and that these uses fell into the light industrial use category.


Advisory Opinion – Peters Propane / Grand County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 17, 2024, Page 3 of 6
Under the Land Use Code’s industrial use categories, the “characteristics” subsection states as
follows:

           Firms engaged in the manufacturing, assembly, repair or servicing of industrial,
           business, or consumer machinery, equipment, products, or by-products mainly by
           providing centralized services for separate retail outlets. Contractors and building
           maintenance services and similar uses perform services off-site. Few customers,
           especially the general public, come to the site.

Id. § 3.4.10A (emphasis added).

“Fuel product storage” is listed in the land use table under the “light industrial service” category,
see id. § 3.1, but is not defined in the land use code. However, the land use table references use-
specific standards for fuel product storage, which states as follows: “Gasoline, petroleum and gas
storage sites and uses shall comply with the following standards”: a Minimum Lot Area of 2 acres,
and Minimum Setbacks (All Sides) of 200 feet. Id. § 3.4.2B.

The Land Use Code directs that undefined terms “shall be given their common, ordinary meanings,
as the context may reasonably suggest.” Id. § 10.2.

In absence of a definition, the context the code provides for “fuel product storage” is that it refers
to large (over 2 acre) storage sites, not intended for visits from the general public, that exist for the
purpose of providing services to separate retail outlets. This does not appear to adequately describe
the use proposed in Peters’ application.

Peters, on the other hand, argues that his proposed use should be categorized as a fuel service use.

The Land Use Code’s table of land uses lists “fuel service” as a permitted use in the Highway
Commercial zone, under the “Vehicle Sales and Service” category. Id. § 3.1. Under the Land Use
Code’s Vehicle Sales and Service category, the “characteristics” subsection states: “Direct sales of
and service to passenger vehicles, light and medium trucks, and other consumer motor vehicles
such as motorcycles, boats, and recreational vehicles.” Id. § 3.4.9H. The code then provides a list
of examples, which includes “full-service, mini-service, and self-service fuel stations,” and as
possible accessory uses, “associated offices,” “sales of parts,” and “vehicle fueling.” Id.

The term “fuel service” is also not defined in the Land Use Code. However, the table does reference
use-specific standards for that use found in section 3.2.3H, which provides, under a header of “fuel
service,” the following: “Gasoline service stations, convenience stores and other fuel service uses
shall comply with the following standards [listed thereafter].” Id. § 3.2.3H (emphasis added). In
light of this, “fuel service” appears to comprise an umbrella term of uses wherein gasoline service
stations and convenience stores are examples, but also anticipates the inclusion of some “other fuel
service uses.” Whereas the Land Use Code directs that undefined terms should be given their
common, ordinary meanings, there appears no reason why a fueling station that also includes




Advisory Opinion – Peters Propane / Grand County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 17, 2024, Page 4 of 6
mobile fuel delivery, an apparent growing trend in the fuel service industry,1 would be materially
or categorically inconsistent with “fuel service” as an umbrella term.2 As such, the aspect of fuel
delivery included in a fuel station use does not appear to be generally excluded from the ordinary
meaning of fuel service.

The County’s determination focuses on aspect of Peters proposed use that provides off-site
delivery of propane, and the presence of a large 30,000 capacity storage tank, as the primary reason
it concludes that the use should be categorized as fuel product storage.

However, Peters argues that other traditional gasoline service stations also feature similarly large
capacity storage tanks to aid that use. The County assumes that the 1,000-gallon storage tank is
exclusively for on-site fueling, while the larger 30,000 gallon is exclusively for off-site use. This
assumption is not justified by the narrative or site plan and has been rebutted by the property owner.
Whereas the larger capacity tank would be a feature of the proposed use even if it were limited to
strictly on-site fueling activities, we see no reason why its presence should categorically change
its land use classification.

At best, even accepting that the County’s interpretation of fuel product storage could plausibly
describe the proposed use, it does not change the fact that the proposed use may also be plausibly
described as fuel service use, which does not expressly proscribe off-site fueling services or
delivery. Two or more plausible meanings of the same ordinance is the very definition of
ambiguity. See Epperson v. Utah State Ret. Bd., 949 P.2d 779, 783 n.6 (Utah Ct. App. 1997) (citing
Alf v. State Farm Fire & Cas. Co., 850 P.2d 1272, 1274 (Utah 1993) (ambiguous means capable
of two or more plausible meanings). Ambiguity is significant when it comes to interpreting the
meaning and applicability of land use regulations. This is because Utah Courts have repeatedly
and consistently held that as zoning laws are in “derogation of a property owner’s common-law
right to unrestricted use of his or her property, provisions therein restricting property uses should
be strictly construed, and provisions permitting property uses should be liberally construed in favor
of the property owner.” Patterson v. Utah Cnty. Bd. of Adjustment, 893 P.2d 602, 606 (Utah Ct.
App. 1995).

When a statute presents an ambiguity, such that under one plausible meaning the proposed use is
not plainly restricted, state law directs that the land use authority must interpret and apply the
regulation to favor the land use application. UTAH CODE § 17-27a-308.

Grand County’s Land Use Code, liberally construed as required by state law, allows for the Peters
proposed use as a fuel service use, which is a permitted use in the HC zone.

                                                   CONCLUSION



1
  See, FORBES.COM, Mobile Fuel Delivery Is The Next Big On-Demand Opportunity Say Leaders, available at
https://www.forbes.com/sites/benjaminlaker/2022/04/06/mobile-fuel-delivery-is-the-next-big-on-demand-
opportunity-say-leaders/.
2
  As an example, the US Bureau of Labor Statistics groups “Gasoline Stations and Fuel Dealers” together under the
same National Industry-Specific Occupational Employment and Wage (NAICS) code. US BUREAU OF LABOR
STATISTICS, NAICS 457000 – Gasoline Stations and Fuel Dealers, bls.gov (last accessed October 17, 2024).
Advisory Opinion – Peters Propane / Grand County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 17, 2024, Page 5 of 6
Grand County’s Land Use Code lists fuel service use as a permitted use in the Highway
Commercial Zone. Fuel service includes various types of fueling stations and direct public retail
for consumer vehicles, but is not defined so as to proscribe fuel delivery. The landowners proposed
use of a propane fueling station that also features mobile fueling and or delivery of propane is
adequately classified as a fuel service use. The County’s determination that the use could be
characterized as fuel product storage, which is not permitted in the Highway Commercial Zone,
even if plausible, at best creates ambiguity requiring the County to interpret its ordinances in favor
of allowing the proposal as a fuel service use under its ordinances.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Peters Propane / Grand County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
October 17, 2024, Page 6 of 6
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based
on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of the author’s
understanding of the relevant law, the author does not represent anyone involved in this
matter. Anyone with an interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the
advice of his or her own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement
of how to protect or advance his or her interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty and consequential damages may also be available if the court finds that the opposing
party—if either a land use applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally
violated the law governing that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are
also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
