                       Advisory Opinion 268
                                 Parties: Dan S. Hales; Box Elder County
                                          Issued: May 24, 2023

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                                   Exactions

The county may require that the half-width of an adjacent local road be dedicated and improved
as a condition of development. Furthermore, this required half-width is appropriately measured
from the centerline of the existing right-of-way unless the local ordinances or master plan clearly
indicate otherwise.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor              MARGARET W. BUSSE         JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                            Executive Director         Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor



                                                 ADVISORY OPINION

         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                Dan S. Hales

         Local Government Entity:                      Box Elder County

         Applicant for land Use Approval:              Dan S. Hales

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                May 24, 2023

         Opinion Authored By:                          Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                                        ISSUE

         May the county require a property owner to dedicate to the public the entire half-width of an
         adjacent road as a condition of approval of a 2-lot subdivision when a portion of the roadway has
         already been dedicated and improved?

                                            SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

         The county may require that the half-width of an adjacent local road be dedicated and improved
         as a condition of development. Furthermore, this required half-width is appropriately measured
         from the centerline of the existing right-of-way unless the local ordinances or master plan clearly
         indicate otherwise.

         In this case, the ordinances require the right-of-way for local roads, which parties have agreed is
         66’’. The current right-of-way has already been improved and is approximately 33’ wide.
         Therefore, to bring the adjacent half-width up to code, the property owner must dedicate an
         additional 16½’ (i.e. half of the current right-of-way, or 16½’ of the currently paved roadway, plus
         an additional 16½ ’ which results in the required 33’ half-width).

         It is acknowledged that the 33’ of current roadway was built on land once belonging to a
         neighboring property and that requiring this owner to dedicate the remaining 33’ right-of-way
         appears “fair.” However, because the ordinances do not stipulate this interpretation, the County
         may not impose this burden on the property owner.

         Additionally, the exaction falls below the commonly accepted standard to require the dedication
         and improvement of the half-width of the adjacent local street and appears lawful.
                                                    REVIEW

A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final decision
by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Title 13, Chapter 43, Section 205 of
the Utah Code. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that this can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum,
and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Dan Hales (the property owner) on July 1,
2022. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Stephen R. Hadfield, Box Elder County
Attorney’s Office, 81 North Main Street, Suite 102, Brigham County, Utah 84302.

                                                   EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

    1. Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Dan Hales on July 1, 2022.

    2. Letter from Stephen R. Hadfield, on behalf of Box Elder County, on September 2, 2022.

    3. Letter from Dan Hales on October 16, 2022.

                                                  BACKGROUND

Dan Hales (the “Property Owner”) has applied for a 2-lot subdivision (the “Subdivision” and also
“Salina Acres Subdivision”) to Box Elder County (the “County”). The Subdivision abuts the
roadway 6800 North which is currently developed as a paved road with dedicated right-of-way 33’
wide.

The Subdivision is still in the approval process, but the County has preliminarily determined that
as a condition of approval the Property Owner must dedicate the remaining needed 33’ wide right-
of-way running along the approximate 400’ of frontage the Subdivision shares with 6800 North.
The proposed dedication constitutes half of the total 66’ ultimately required right-of-way for 6800
North.

The Property Owner questions whether this requirement is lawful on two points.

First, the Property Owner questions why credit for the existing 33’ right-of-way is granted entirely
to the neighboring property. The existing 33’1 of right-of-way for 6800 North was dedicated under
UTAH CODE § 75-5-104, often called the “roads by use” statute, whereby once private property is
used as a public thoroughfare continuously for ten years, it is automatically dedicated to the



1 The quiet title judgment stipulates that 29’ of existing right-of-way was created, rather than 33’. This

includes 25’ of paved roadway surface plus 2’ of shoulder on either side. Because both parties refer to the
existing right-of-way width as being 33’ feet wide we will use the 33’ in our discussion. The legal principles
discussed remain the same regardless.
Advisory Opinion – Dan Hales / Box Elder County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 24, 2023 Page 2 of 8
public.2 The public used the neighbors’ property as a roadway for the necessary time period, and
in accordance with state statute, ownership dedicated has transferred to the public.

This dedication was recognized in 2004 by a quiet title action judgment3 so the location of the
roadway and property boundaries are well settled. This judgment clearly establishes the location
for the paved right-of-way for 6800 as well as the boundaries for the plaintiff property owners,
including the predecessor in interest for the Property Owner.

The Property Owner maintains that before the survey debacle that led to the quiet title action, his
property had been defined as “to the centerline of the 6800 right-of-way.” It is not clear from the
record whether this was the centerline of the ultimately planned for 66’ right-of-way, or, the
centerline of the existing 33’ of existing pavement. Regardless, this deed is superseded by the
survey connected to the quiet title judgment which describes the Property Owner’s property as
extending to the edge of the existing right-of-way pavement/shoulder which runs along the quarter
section line. The survey does not include any reference to future rights-of-way.

The County maintains that the legal history, including the quiet title order,4 clearly establishes that
the current 33’ of roadway was dedicated by use from what had formerly been the neighbor’s land
and therefore, the remaining 33’ half-width is appropriately exacted from the Subdivision property.

This distinction makes the difference between the Property Owner’s “share” of the half-width being
the remaining 33’ of needed right-of-way, or only 16½’ with the remaining needed 16½’ to come
from the neighbor on the other side of the roadway.

Both parties acknowledge that property immediately adjacent to the Subdivision was recently
subdivided with 16½’ additional feet being dedicated for 6800 North. That plat, the Cody Riedesel
Subdivision, indicates that the an additional 16½’ for the future 66’ right-of-way is expected to be
dedicated from the other side of the street. Both parties agree that this subdivision is provided for
information purposes only and not dispositive. The County maintains that this subdivision was
improperly approved.

Second, the Property Owner questions whether requiring 33’ of property along the entire roughly
400’ of frontage along 6800 North is proportional to the impact of developing one additional lot.
This amounts to nearly one-third of an acre of property. Both lots will be over five acres each.
Neither party has included the current zoning for the property nor the proposed use for the new
lot.

To counter these objections, the County maintains that that the existing roadway right-of-way
came out of the neighbor’s property, therefore, it is fair that the remainder come from the Property
Owner.

Accordingly, the Property Owner has requested this Advisory Opinion from the Property Rights
Ombudsman to determine whether the County may lawfully require the Property Owner to

2 See e.g. Heber City Corp. v. Simpson, 942 P.2d 307 (Utah 1997).
3 There is a history of conflicted ownership which was settled in 2004 by quiet title action judgment. The

conflict arose from the placement of an apparently errant corner section marker by the County surveyor
which shifted property boundaries as much as 27 feet to the north and over 6 feet to the west. The quiet title
action was filed to settle property ownership boundaries, including for the Property Owner and the County
right-of-way.
4 Order, Judgment, and Decree Approving Settlement, Civil No. 020101094 PR, Judge: Thomas L.

Willmore, First Judicial District Court in and for Box Elder County, March 2004.
Advisory Opinion – Dan Hales / Box Elder County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 24, 2023 Page 3 of 8
dedicate 33’ of right-of-way along the 400’ of frontage of 6800 North as a condition of approval for
a two-lot residential subdivision.

                                                  ANALYSIS

May the County lawfully require the Property Owner to dedicate 33’ of right-of-way along the 400’
of frontage as a condition of approval for a two-lot residential subdivision?

I.       As a starting point, the County may only require what is clearly expressed in
         ordinance

The Property Owner first questions why the County credits the existing 33’ right-of-way entirely to
the neighboring property, thus requiring the entire remaining 33’ of needed right-of-way entirely
from the Subdivision property.

The roadway half-width is customarily measured from the centerline of the existing right-of-way.
This approach would credit half of the existing 33’ of right of way (16½‘) to the Property Owner,
and require the further dedication of only another 16½’ from the property on the other side of the
road.

As an initial matter, we note that the County may only impose on the Property Owner a specific
requirement to dedicate property as a condition of Subdivision approval if the requirement is
clearly expressed in County ordinances or specifications. UTAH CODE § 17-27a-508(1)(e) reads
“A county may not impose on an applicant who has submitted a complete application a
requirement that is not expressed: (i) in this chapter; (ii) in a county ordinance; or (iii) in a county
specification for public improvements applicable to a subdivision or development that is in effect
on the date that the applicant submits an application” (emphases added).

County ordinances as well as the transportation masterplan do not specify where the centerline
for 6800 North lies, nor whether the remaining dedication for 6800 North should come from the
Property Owner’s property. The quiet title judgment does not provide this answer because it only
locates the boundaries of the currently existing roadway and adjoining properties. Similarly, other
official County documents do not provide any information clarifying where the centerline of 6800
will be located at build-out.

When evaluating the ordinances, meaning must be given to words which are missing as well as
those included. It must be presumed “that each term included in the ordinance was used
advisedly”5 and “[o]missions in statutory language should be taken note of and given effect.”6
Furthermore, it is important to recognize that zoning ordinances should be strictly construed in
favor of the property owner, since such ordinances are in derogation of an owner’s use of land.7
Therefore, lack of information clarifying where the centerline for 6800 North will rest once the road
is completed must be given weight. Moreover, Utah Code 17-27a-308 states that “[i]f a land use
regulation does not plainly restrict a land use application, the land use authority shall interpret and
apply the land use regulation to favor the land use application.”

As a result, because the applicant in this case is proposing to locate the road in a way that
measure the centerline from the center of the existing right-of-way, and because a roadway half-

5 Carrier v. Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98, ¶ 30, 104 P.3d 602, 606 (Utah Ct. App. 1995).
6 Biddle v. Washington Terrace, 1999 UT 110, ¶ 14.
7 Carrier, 2004 UT 98 ¶31.


Advisory Opinion – Dan Hales / Box Elder County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 24, 2023 Page 4 of 8
width is customarily measured from the centerline of the existing right-of-way, and the County
ordinances and other official documents do not prescribe otherwise, the County, in interpreting
and applying the land use regulation to favor the applicant’s proposal, must measure the required
roadway dedication from the centerline of the existing right-of-way. This translates to a required
dedication from the Property Owner capped at 16½’.

II.      Requiring dedication of right-of-way is an exaction which must satisfy the Rough
         Proportionality Test to be lawful

The County requirement to dedicate land for a roadway as a condition of plat approval is a
development exaction. Utah law defines development exactions as “conditions imposed by
governmental entities on developers for the issuance of [development approval]” that “typically
require the permanent surrender of private property for public use.”8

Exactions implicate the Takings Clause of the U.S. Constitution and Article I Section 22 of the
Utah Constitution, which protect private property from governmental taking without just
compensation. The standard for measuring whether an exaction imposed by a county is lawful is
found at Utah Code § 17-27A-507(1):

         A county may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in a land
         use application…if:

                   (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
                   each exaction; and

                   (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
                   impact of the proposed development (emphasis added).

This standard lays out a two-part “rough proportionality” test for determining whether an imposed
exaction appropriately offsets the impacts of a development proposal.9 If the proposed exaction
satisfies the legal test, the exaction is a proper exercise of the local government’s police power to
regulate for health, safety, and welfare.10 If, however, the exaction lacks an essential link to a
legitimate government interest, or is disproportionate to the impact of the proposed development,
the exaction is excessive and an unlawful taking of property without compensation.11 A principal
objective of the test is to “bar Government from forcing some people alone to bear public burdens
which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.”12

Note that the County bears the burden to show the proposed exaction is proportionate to the
development’s impacts.13 “No precise mathematical calculation is required, but the County must


8 B.A.M. Dev., LLC v. Salt Lake County (BAM I), 2006 UT 2, ¶ 34.
9 This test was originally established in the U.S. Supreme Court decisions of Nollan v. California Coastal

Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825 (1987) and Dolan v. County of Tigard, 512 U.S 374 (1994). The Utah Supreme Court
has also provided additional guidance on how to apply this test to a given situation in B.A.M. Development,
LLC v. Salt Lake County (BAM II), 2008 UT 74.
10 See Shelley Ross Saxer, Exactions and Impact Fees, 7 Brigham-Kanner Property Rights Conf. J. 77, 83

(2018) (“Insisting that landowners internalized the negative externalities of their conduct is a hallmark of
responsible land-use policy….”).
11 See Banberry Development Corporation v. South Jordan City, 631 P..2d 899, 903 (Utah 1981).
12 Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960).
13 See Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391-92.


Advisory Opinion – Dan Hales / Box Elder County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 24, 2023 Page 5 of 8
make some sort of individualized determination that the required dedication is related both in
nature and extent to the impact of the proposed development.”14

Accordingly, the County’s requirement that the Property Owner dedicate land for a future right-of-
way must satisfy all parts of the rough proportionality test to be lawful.

    A. An essential link exists between the County’s proposed exaction and a legitimate
       government interest

The first part of UTAH CODE § 17-27A-507(1) requires an essential link between a legitimate
governmental interest and the imposed exaction. In this case, the County’s legitimate
governmental interest is safe and efficient access and traffic flow. Constructing new roadways is
a vital component in accomplishing this objective.15 Requiring roads to serve proposed
development satisfies this interest. Accordingly, the County’s dedication requirement complies
with the first part of the rough proportionality test.

    B. The exaction satisfies the nature portion of the analysis

The nature aspect of the rough proportionality test asks whether the exaction provides a solution
to a problem created by the development activity.16

The Property Owner intends to subdivide his property in order to create a second lot. When
developed, this will cause an increase in traffic along 6800 North. Furthermore, the property will
use existing roadways, utilities, and other improvements and it is appropriate for the Property
Owner to contribute to that system. Requiring the dedication of land to expand the roadway to
existing development standards therefore provides a solution to a problem created by the
development and the nature portion of the rough proportionality test is satisfied.

    C. The exaction satisfies the extent portion of the analysis

The extent portion of the exaction analysis compares the County’s cost to the property owner’s
cost. These two costs should be roughly equivalent. Generally, greater impact justifies a greater
exaction. Where the impact is small, the exaction should likewise be small.

The County has asked that Property Owner dedicate 33’ along the approximate 400’ of frontage
the Subdivision shares with 6800 North. Note that the County is not requiring that Property Owner
pay to construct the road, curb, gutter, or sidewalk improvements in this area, just to dedicate the
land where the future road will be built. Because we have already determined that requiring the
dedication of 33’ of right-of-way was not lawful in Section I above, we will use the allowed 16½’
instead.

The County bears the burden of showing that its proposed exaction satisfies the rough
proportionality test.17 The County must conduct some sort of individualized determination that the
value of the 16½’ x 400’ property required to be dedicated offsets the impact of the development
of the single new lot. Without this analysis, the County has not satisfied the extent aspect of the

14 Id. at 391 (emphasis added).
15 See Carrier v. Lindquist, 2001 UT 105, ¶ 18, 37 P.3d 1112, 1117 (“In order for a government to be effective,

it needs the power to establish or relocate public throughways . . . for the convenience and safety of the
general public.”) See also Utah Code § 10-8-8.
16 B.A.M. Dev., LLC v. Salt Lake County (BAM I), 2006 UT 2,
17 See Dolan, 512 U.S. at 391.


Advisory Opinion – Dan Hales / Box Elder County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 24, 2023 Page 6 of 8
rough proportionality test. To establish rough proportionality the County includes bare statements
that the requirement meets County’s established standards, and that it is fair because the existing
33’ came out of the neighbor’s property.

However, we note that the full analysis required to show rough proportionality is very impractical
to provide, and perhaps impossible. In fact, after many Advisory Opinions addressing exactions
over several years, this Office has never seen such an analysis. As a result, in an attempt to
resolve disputes, past Advisory Opinions have articulated a commonly used industry standard:

         It is common for a county to exact the dedication and construction of a half-width
         of a road, curb, gutter, etc., along the entire frontage of the property. This half-width
         frontage dedication and construction is common practice and generally accepted
         as roughly proportionate to a typical road impact. An abutting half-width generally
         does not require one developer to provide improvements that others should
         provide — i.e., the opposite abutting landowner typically provides the other half-
         width.18

The requirement for a developer to dedicate and improve the half-width of the local roadway
fronting the property is a common standard, and one that appears to be widely credible throughout
the development community. It is grounded in the need for a practical, straight-forward standard
to apply in the thousands of building permit approvals made across the state each year. The half-
width standard fits the legal standard explained in relevant Utah court cases and is reasonable
on its face. If everyone in the County improves the local roadway half-width adjacent to their
property when they develop, we have local roadways that we all can use. Larger lots require more
roadway and smaller lots require less roadway - thus balancing proportionality.

Therefore, the County may lawfully require that the Property Owner dedicate and improve up to
the half-width of the adjacent local road, in light of the existing circumstances. Because a portion
of the roadway has already been dedicated and improved, the County may require that the
Property Owner dedicate and improve the 16½‘ remaining to make the half-width complete.

In summary, the County bears the burden to establish that the required dedication is roughly
proportional to the impact the proposed development will have. Without this analysis, the County
has not satisfied the extent aspect of the rough proportionality test. However, the common
standard is to require the dedication and improvement of the half-width of the adjacent local street,
therefore, the County may require the Property Owner to dedicate and improve up to 16 ½ feet of
right-of-way.

                                                  CONCLUSION

Because the application proposes to measure the right-of-way from the centerline of the existing
road, and because a roadway half-width is customarily measured from the centerline of the
existing right-of-way and the County ordinances and transportation master plan do not require
otherwise, the County should measure the required roadway dedication from the centerline of the
existing right-of-way. In requiring that the Property Owner dedicate the half-width of the intended
66’ of right-of-way for 6800 North, the measurement shall begin at the centerline of the existing




18 Ombudsman Advisory Opinion 205. See also Ombudsman Advisory Opinions 221 and 180. While not

legally binding, our Office does endeavor to issue opinions using consistent analysis and reasoning.
Advisory Opinion – Dan Hales / Box Elder County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 24, 2023 Page 7 of 8
roadway, resulting in 16½’ already established and a lawful dedication request of an additional
16½’.

Furthermore, the County bears the burden to establish that the required dedication is roughly
proportional to the impact the proposed development will have. Without this analysis, the County
has not satisfied the extent aspect of the rough proportionality test. However, the common
standard is to require the dedication and improvement of the half-width of the adjacent local street.
Therefore, exacting an additional 16½’ to complete the requested half-width appears lawful.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Dan Hales / Box Elder County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
May 24, 2023 Page 8 of 8
NOTE:
This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of
the State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from
the date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.
Additionally, a civil penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing
party—if either a land use applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally
violated the law governing that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in § 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are also
designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
