                       Advisory Opinion 238
                        Parties: Snow Garden Apartments, LLC / Ephraim City
                                             Issued: April 16, 2021

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                        Entitlement to Application Approval (Vested Rights)

                                            Pending Ordinances

                                    Temporary Land Use Ordinances


Property owners have a statutory vested right to land use approval at the time of application under
ordinances then in effect unless the municipality has already formally initiated proceedings to
amend its ordinances in a way that would prohibit approval of the application. Temporary land use
regulations are intended for emergency public interest concerns, and should not be used as a
“stop-clock” to refuse complete land use applications that the city may otherwise perceive as
unfavorable without first making changes to the law applicable to the request.

The owner of a complex of apartment buildings obtained a permit to install solar panels on one of
its buildings in accordance with City ordinances at the time. After the initial permit, the owner’s
contractor emailed plans for other buildings in the complex to the City without an accompanying
application. Meanwhile, the City became concerned about increased solar use and improperly
passed a moratorium on solar permit applications until it could initiate a change to its ordinances.
Despite the moratorium, the City nevertheless encouraged the owner to complete the application
for the other buildings, but the owner only did so after the City had lawfully initiated proceedings
to amend its ordinances, thus prohibiting the subsequent permits applied for. The owner failed to
obtain vested rights under the statute’s plain language.

                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                           (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                        1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                             www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                 propertyrights@utah.gov
                             State of Utah
                             Department of Commerce
   SPENCER J. COX            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
      Governor
                             MARGARET W. BUSSE       JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON          Executive Director      Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION


         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                  Anthony Davis

         Local Government Entity:                        Ephraim City

         Applicant for Land Use Approval:                Snow Garden Apartments, LLC

         Type of Property:                               Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                  April 16, 2021

         Opinion Authored By:                            Richard B. Plehn, Attorney
                                                         Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                          ISSUE

         Is the land use applicant entitled to approval of permit applications to install solar panels despite a
         moratorium on solar permit applications enacted by the City Council?

                                          SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

         Property owners generally have a statutory vested right to land use approval when they submit a
         complete land use application that complies with the land use regulations then in effect. There are,
         however, exceptions to this rule. One exception is when the municipality has already formally
         initiated proceedings to amend its ordinances in a way that would prohibit approval of the
         application.

         Separately, temporary land use regulations may also limit development rights, but are intended for
         emergency public interest concerns only. This tool allows a local legislative body to bypass the
         normal process of receiving public input and recommendation from the planning commission, and
         also requires the municipality to make a finding of compelling, countervailing public interest.
         These “moratoria” should not be used as a “stop-clock” for refusing to accept complete land use
         applications that comply with a city’s existing ordinances that the city may otherwise perceive as
         unfavorable without first making changes to the law applicable to the request.
The owner of a complex of apartment buildings contracted to install solar panels on its buildings,
in accordance with City ordinances at the time. After obtaining an initial permit to install panels
on one of the buildings, the owner’s contractor emailed plans for the other buildings to the City
without an accompanying application. Meanwhile, the City became concerned about increased
solar use and improperly passed a moratorium on solar permit applications. The moratorium was
improper because it lacked the required compelling public interest basis.

While the moratorium was enacted before the owner learned that their attempt to obtain a permit
for the other buildings was incomplete for lack of a formal application, the City nevertheless
appears to have encouraged the owner at one point to complete and submit the application despite
the moratorium. The owner eventually did this, but not until nearly the end of the moratorium. By
that time, the City had lawfully initiated proceedings to amend its ordinances, thus prohibiting the
permit applied for. Because the owner’s complete application was preempted by the initiation of
proceedings to change the applicable ordinances, the owner failed to obtain vested rights entitling
them to approval under the statute’s plain language.

                                                           REVIEW

A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Title 13, Chapter 43, Section
205 of the Utah Code. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty
to exhaust administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a
land use application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue.
It is hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the
courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Anthony Davis on August 3, 2020. A copy
of that request was sent via certified mail to Richard Squire, Mayor of Ephraim City, 5 South Main,
Ephraim Utah 84627, on August 21, 2020.

                                                           EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Anthony Davis, received on August 3,
        2020.
     2. Letter Response to Advisory Opinion Request, submitted by Brian Page, City Attorney for
        Ephraim City, dated September 2, 2020.
     3. Email in response to City’s September 2, 2020 letter, submitted by Anthony Davis, dated
        September 14, 2020.
     4. City’s Supplemental Response to Advisory Opinion Request, submitted by Brian Page,
        dated September 18, 2020.
     5. Emails and documents submitted by Anthony Davis, dated December 1, 2020.

Advisory Opinion – Snow Garden Apartments / Ephraim City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2021 Page 2 of 10
     6. Emails and documents submitted by Brian Page, dated December 10, 2020.
     7. Ephraim City public notices and meeting minutes, obtained from the Utah Public Notice
        Website, http://www.utah.gov/pmn.


                                                           BACKGROUND

Snow Garden Apartments LLC (“SGA”) is the owner of an apartment complex of the same name
in Ephraim, Utah, comprising a total of six standalone buildings—an office, four apartment
buildings numbered 1-4, and a newer apartment building labeled “Building E.” SGA contracted
with Progressive Power Solutions (“PPS”) to install solar panels at the SGA property, and made
initial payment to PPS on November 1, 2019 to install solar panels on Building E.

SGA alleges that in early November, PPS met with Ephraim City officials on SGA’s behalf to
prepare needed permits and notify the City that SGA’s project was to have PPS install solar panels
on all of its buildings, starting first with Building E, then the four remaining buildings 1-4. The
City contends that no formal in-person meeting with SGA ever occurred, and that there was only
a short discussion about Building E between PPS and City staff.

On November 13, 2019, the City received a “Net Metering License Application Commercial
25KW or Less” (“NMLA application”) to “[i]nstall 79 [solar panel] modules . . . using . . . 25kW
Array”. Under Ephraim City Utility Billing Account No., the application listed “E Building”. PPS
emailed a site diagram for the project to City staff on November 20, 2019. The site diagram
depicted solar panel modules on building E, only, and did not depict the other buildings in the
complex. This application was reviewed and a solar permit was issued on Thursday, November
21, 2019. City staff thereafter sent an email notification that the “solar permit for Snow Gardens
building E” had been approved.

The day after SGA submitted its application, the City’s Utility Board convened to discuss net
metering, stating that “[a]partment complexes are showing an interest in solar,” which was cause
for concern due to the ordinance’s existing definitions of residential and commercial because
“apartment buildings are in a gray area as they are a business that is residential use.”1 The board
concluded that there were multiple circumstances for solar that needed greater definition in the
ordinance. During council reports at the November 20, 2019 City Council meeting, the Utilities
Board discussed solar energy and reported that the City may need to pass a moratorium to allow
time for City policies to be reviewed and updated.

Meanwhile, following the November 21, 2019 issuance of the approved permit, construction and
installation began on Building E, and SGA proceeded to buy panels from PPS for all four
remaining buildings.

On December 26, 2019, City staff received an email from PPS, on behalf of SGA, stating PPS had
“turned in a permit for Snow Garden Apartments buildings 1-4” and included as attachments to
that email site diagrams “for each building for the city approval.” The City had not received any

1
    Ephraim City Utilities Board Meeting                    Minutes,   pg.   1,   November   14,   2019,   available   at
https://www.utah.gov/pmn/files/566672.pdf.

Advisory Opinion – Snow Garden Apartments / Ephraim City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2021 Page 3 of 10
additional NMLA applications for SGA’s property, other than the November 13, 2019 application.
SGA alleges that it was the understanding of both SGA and PPS that no new NMLA form was
required, and that the December 26, 2019 email and attached site diagram was an attempted
application seeking approval for the four remaining buildings in the project, as previously
communicated to City staff.

On January 27, 2020, PPS emailed City staff to “check on the permission for the installation of
solar” on the remaining buildings. A City staff member responded on January 30, 2020 that “[t]here
are discussions regarding this project still taking place. I will get back to you with more
information regarding those discussions once they have concluded.” At the February 5, 2020 City
Council meeting, it is noted that the Utilities Board reported “[d]iscussions taking place regarding
solar energy.”2 At the February 13, 2020 Utility Board Meeting, the board noted that the entire net
metering application process is under review and revisions need to be made, and that a
“moratorium on all new solar applications is suggested while all the processes and revisions are
done.”3

SGA alleges that on February 12, 2020, PPS met with City staff in person. In response to being
informed that a solar moratorium was in place, PPS asserted that it had already applied for permits.
SGA alleges that City staff explained that because no NMLA application was submitted for the
other buildings, SGA had failed to properly apply for those permits. The City does not recall a
specific discussion with PPS regarding the moratorium, but contends that it did inform individuals
of discussions concerning a solar moratorium that was to be on the agenda for the upcoming
February 19th City Council meeting, and that if the moratorium was approved, it would prohibit
the City from accepting applications at that point. However, the City contends that it never
informed anyone that applications would not be accepted prior to a moratorium being put in place,
and asserts that it accepted applications as late as February 17th, the day before notice was
published of possible action on the moratorium.

On February 18, 2020, notice and agenda for the next day’s City Council meeting was posted,
which included “Discussion and possible approval of Solar Moratorium.”4 At the February 19,
2020 City Council meeting, the Council approved a six-month moratorium to allow the Utilities
Board time to “redo the agreements and meter standards and application process.”5

Following the enactment of the moratorium, SGA alleges that it contacted City staff directly, and
was informed that a moratorium was now in effect, but was not in place at the time PPS met with
City staff in February. SGA further alleges that during a three-way call with SGA, PPS, and the
City, it was discussed that the application for permits on the remaining buildings was incomplete
because of a lack of a NMLA form, and that the City told SGA to go ahead and submit an NMLA.


2
  This includes significant public comment at the January 16, 2020 Utility Board Meeting from solar customers
regarding concerns with the net metering agreement.
3
    Ephraim City Utilities Board Meeting Minutes, pg. 2, February 13, 2020, available at
https://www.utah.gov/pmn/files/584997.pdf.
4
  Notice of February 19, 2020 Ephraim City Council Meeting Agenda (posted February 18, 2020), available at
https://www.utah.gov/pmn/sitemap/notice/589329.html.
5
     Ephraim City Council Meeting Minutes, February 19, 2020, pg. 3, available at
https://www.utah.gov/pmn/files/586201.docx.

Advisory Opinion – Snow Garden Apartments / Ephraim City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2021 Page 4 of 10
Near the end of the six-month moratorium, the City published notice on July 6, 2020 of a July 22,
2020 public hearing before the planning commission to consider amending the land use ordinance
regarding solar panels and the City’s net metering requirements.6 On July 13, 2020, SGA attempted
to submit a single application form for its remaining buildings and was informed that the City was
not currently accepting applications, and that the application form was being revised which may
require SGA to resubmit updated application forms following the lift of the moratorium.

On August 5, 2020, the City amended its ordinances to include restrictions that would prohibit a
system larger than 15kW for commercial use, including rental residential units such as apartment
buildings. Upon passing the ordinance amendment, the solar moratorium was then lifted.

                                                           ANALYSIS

SGA argues that the City was well aware of SGA’s plans to install solar panels on all of its
buildings, and that the City intentionally stopped SGA from installing solar panels that complied
with the City’s ordinances at the time by enacting a moratorium to disallow permits to install
panels on the remaining four of the five buildings.

The two relevant questions for this advisory opinion are therefore (1) whether the City’s enacted
moratorium on solar permit applications was a valid temporary land use regulation, and (2)
whether the applicant has any vested right to approval of the solar permits even though the City
initiated proceedings to amend its regulations in a manner that would prohibit approval of the
permits.7

     I.          Public Input, Planning Commission Recommendation, and Land Use Regulations

Utah’s Land Use Development and Management Act (“LUDMA”) provides municipalities
considerably broad discretion to regulate land uses for the public interest by enacting land use
ordinances. However, State law allows temporary land use regulations, including moratoria on a
particular land use, only in limited circumstances. Municipalities considering the use of moratoria
should proceed with caution, and should ensure they meticulously follow required procedures to
enacting one properly.

     a. Deferential Nature of Land Use Regulations

Under LUDMA, the municipality’s planning commission is responsible to review and make
recommendations to the legislative body for land use regulations, including amendments to
existing land use regulations.8 Before making a recommendation to the legislative body, the
planning commission must hold a public hearing at which members of the public are provided a
reasonable opportunity to comment on the subject of the hearing.9 The municipality’s legislative
6
  Notice of July 22, 2020 Ephraim City Planning Commission Agenda (posted July 21, 2020), available at
https://www.utah.gov/pmn/sitemap/notice/615505.html.
7
  We note that our jurisdiction to opine on the issue of vested rights is limited to an analysis of rights under Utah
statute, U.C.A. § 10-9a-509. The disputed facts in this matter may support other legal claims, specifically including
the doctrine of zoning estoppel. For further discussion, please see footnote 25, infra.
8
  UTAH CODE §10-9a-302(1).
9
  UTAH CODE §10-9a-404(1).

Advisory Opinion – Snow Garden Apartments / Ephraim City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2021 Page 5 of 10
body then considers the planning commission’s recommendation and adopts, revises, or rejects the
land use regulation.10 The standard of whether an enacted land use ordinance is valid, and
constitutional, is merely whether the regulation “could promote the general welfare; or even if it
is reasonably debatable that it is in the interest of the general welfare.”11

So long as a new land use regulation or an amendment to an existing land use regulation goes
through the planning commission and public input process, a municipality may make whatever
substantive changes to land use regulations that are reasonably debatable to be in the interest of
the general welfare, including the prohibition of a particular use in a particular zoning district.

           b. Limited Purpose of Moratoria

A moratorium, as a temporary land use regulation, serves a much different purpose than an
amendment to a land use ordinance after the planning commission process. LUDMA provides a
separate process for a temporary land use regulation, as follows:

           10-9a-504. Temporary land use regulations.
           (1) (a) A municipal legislative body may, without prior consideration of or recommendation
                    from the planning commission, enact an ordinance establishing a temporary land
                    use regulation for any part or all of the area within the municipality if:
                           (i) the legislative body makes a finding of compelling, countervailing
                           public interest; or
                           (ii) the area is unregulated.

Here, the City enacted a moratorium on solar permit applications. Therefore, the City must “make[]
a finding of compelling, countervailing public interest” to justify the moratorium.12

The February 19, 2020 City Council minutes do not reflect that the council made any such finding,
and only mention that the Utilities Board had been talking about a moratorium and “decided to
redo the agreements and meter standards and application process” and would like the moratorium
“until all documents are in place.”13

We do not need to opine as to whether these reasons, had they actually been proffered as findings,
are sufficient to justify a moratorium under the “compelling, countervailing public interest”
standard,14 because the moratorium otherwise fails because no required findings were made at all.

10
   UTAH CODE §10-9a-302(2).
11
   Bradley v. Payson, 2003 UT 16, ¶ 14 (internal citations omitted).
12
   UTAH CODE §10-9a-504(1)(a)(i). Neither party in this matter has indicated that the area in question is unregulated,
so subsection (ii) is inapplicable here.
13
   Ephraim City Council Meeting Minutes, February 19, 2020, at pg. 3.
14
   As for what amounts to a compelling, countervailing public interest, the standard is likely reserved for instances
where a proposed use “seriously threatens public health, safety, or welfare,” see Western Land Equities, Inc. v. City of
Logan, 617 P.2d 388, 395-396 (Utah 1980), and may be otherwise comparable to the “compelling state interest”
standard found prevalently in our legal jurisprudence, most notably with the protection of constitutional rights. A
compelling state interest is a “paramount” interest, one of “the highest order.” Sherbert v. Verner, 374 U.S. 398, 403
(1963). Such interests are usually associated with fundamental rights. For an in-depth discussion comparing
LUDMA’s compelling, countervailing public interest standard to the compelling state interest standard, please this

Advisory Opinion – Snow Garden Apartments / Ephraim City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2021 Page 6 of 10
Moratoria are intended to address “emergency” issues of public interest concerns where there is
not sufficient time to go through the processes of public input and planning commission
recommendation.15 Here, the Utilities Board reported the concern on November 20, 2019, but the
moratorium was not enacted until months later on February 19, 2020. Notably, within this time
frame, the City could have initiated a land use regulation amendment—including a public hearing
and planning commission recommendation—to accomplish the same function as the enacted
moratorium, but without any of the additional requirements of a temporary land use regulation.
However, because the City instead chose to utilize the mechanism of a temporary land use
regulation, but failed to meet its heightened standard, the moratorium is invalid and without effect.

     II.         Statutory Vested Rights

Consistent with the above, when a municipality determines that its enacted development standards
or land use ordinances need to be updated to serve the evolving public interest, the municipal
legislative body amends those regulations by following the land use amendment process of
receiving a recommendation of the planning commission after gathering input from the public.

However, until the City initiates such a change to the law, it is obligated to review and consider
land use applications under the existing regulations and not under any intended future standard. In
other words, “[i]t is incumbent upon city . . . to act in good faith and not to reject an application
because the application itself triggers zoning reconsiderations that result in a substitution of the
judgment of current city officials for that of their predecessors.”16

     a. Complete Land Use Applications under LUDMA

LUDMA provides that a land use applicant who has submitted a complete land use application is
entitled to substantive review of the application under the land use regulations (a) in effect on the
date that the application is complete, and (b) applicable to the application or to the information
shown on the application.17 An application is considered complete when “the applicant provides
the application in a form that complies with the requirements of applicable ordinances and pays
all applicable fees.”18

The use of solar panels on a property is regulated by the City’s land use regulations, and is allowed
as a permitted use for single family consumption in all residential zones.19 Ephraim City’s
ordinance on Net Metering Requirements provides that customers desiring to engage in net

Office’s previous opinion: Advisory Opinion #14, Michael Moyal and MBI, LLC / Ogden City, April 16, 2007,
available at https://propertyrights.utah.gov/advisory-opinions/view-all-advisory-opinions/advisory-opinion-14/
15
   See id. Otherwise, as discussed above in subsection (a) of this section, where time allows for a public hearing and
planning commission recommendation—noting that the local legislative authority is not beholden to the
recommendation of the planning commission nor the suggestions of the public (except, perhaps, politically in the next
election cycle)—the City has broad discretion to regulate under the much lower standard of “reasonably debatable,”
without regard to finding any compelling public interest.
16
   Western Land Equities, 617 P.2d 388, at 396.
17
   UTAH CODE §10-9a-509(1)(a)(i).
18
   UTAH CODE §10-9a-509(1)(c).
19
   EPHRAIM CITY CODE (“ECC”) §10.20.030 Table B.

Advisory Opinion – Snow Garden Apartments / Ephraim City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2021 Page 7 of 10
metering must enter into a license agreement with Ephraim City Power, and submit a license
agreement application that must be accompanied by a system diagram or schematic, together with
a filing fee.20 The system diagram is required to show “every wire and every connection” and
discrepancies between the submitted diagram “and the actual installation as built are cause for
rejection.”21

Here, it is undisputed that the only actual NMLA applications submitted for the Snow Garden
Apartments were (1) the initial NMLA depicting “Building E” only, submitted on November 13,
2019, and (2) the later NMLA for the rest of the buildings attempted to be submitted on July 13,
2020, and rejected by the City as within the moratorium period. Both of these applications are
complete as to the respective dates submitted.

As for SGA’s initial application, the City’s system diagram requirements make clear that
installation of solar panels on additional buildings not depicted in the application diagram would
not be permitted without some additional application or amendment thereto. SGA’s emailed
diagrams for the other buildings was therefore completed by the NMLA application submitted
later, but only after the City formally took to lawfully effectuate a change of its ordinances.

     b. Preemption by Initiated Legislative Proceedings

A submitted complete land use application is usually entitled to approval if it complies with the
regulations then in effect. One important exception to this is if as “provided by local ordinance and
before the applicant submits the application, the municipality formally initiates proceedings to
amend the municipality's land use regulations in a manner that would prohibit approval of the
application as submitted.”22

Under LUDMA, a municipality amends its land use ordinances by first holding a public hearing
on the proposed land use amendment, which requires prior notice be given of the hearing.23
Therefore, in situations where the local ordinance doesn’t explicitly state what event formally
initiates proceedings to amend the city’s ordinance, as is the case here, it has been this Office’s
experience that the date the municipality publishes the required notice of proceedings to amend its
ordinances is generally accepted to be the effective date it “initiates proceedings” for purposes of
preemption to vested rights as provided by statute for a complete land use application.

Here, the City acknowledges that SGA was entitled to approval of the November 19, 2019
application, which was facially limited to installing solar panels on Building E. The City, however,
argues that SGA holds no vested right of approval for the application submitted on July 13, 2020
because the moratorium was then in effect. As the moratorium was invalid, this cannot be used as
a basis for denying a complete land use application that complies with the regulations then in
effect.



20
   ECC § 8.20.020(E)-(F).
21
   ECC § 8.20.020(E).
22
   UTAH CODE §10-9a-509(1)(a)(ii)(B).
23
   UTAH CODE §10-9a-302(2).

Advisory Opinion – Snow Garden Apartments / Ephraim City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2021 Page 8 of 10
Despite this, however, SGA’s submitted material also suggest that SGA was actually encouraged
to submit an NMLA during the moratorium period anyway. SGA alleges that after the enactment
of the moratorium in late February 2020, during a three-way call between SGA, PPS, and the City
wherein it was discussed that application for solar permits on the other buildings was incomplete
due to the lack of an NMLA, the City told SGA to “go ahead and submit an NMLA.”

The record indicates that SGA had an opportunity to submit an NMLA for the remaining buildings
during the moratorium, which would have vested this subsequent application under the regulations
then in existence, but by the time the application was submitted on July 13, 2020, the City had by
then already published its July 6, 2020 notice of the scheduled planning commission hearing (July
22, 2020) to consider an amendment to the land use ordinance regarding solar panels and the City’s
net metering requirements.24

Statutory vested rights are expressly granted, and interpreted plainly. LUDMA provides both the
required trigger for vested rights—submission of a complete application as required by local
ordinances—as well as specific situations under which vested rights might be preempted, including
the initiation of proceedings to amend applicable ordinances. Therefore, because the only NMLA
application submitted following SGA’s approved permit for Building E came after the City had
published notice of proceedings to amend the ordinances relevant to the application, SGA has no
vested rights for the remaining buildings.25




24
   Notice of July 22, 2020 Ephraim City Planning Commission Agenda (posted July 21, 2020), available at
https://www.utah.gov/pmn/sitemap/notice/615505.html.
25
   We note that, in addition to statutory vesting, a court may also grant vested development rights under the equitable
remedy of zoning estoppel. See Patterson v. American Fork, 2003 UT 7, ¶ 7. While the codified vested rights standard
under Utah statute has strict application without regard to the surrounding circumstances of the parties, conversely, a
court acting in equity is not required to recite its decision in terms of specific factors or to adhere to formulaic tests;
rather, its obligation is to effectuate a result that serves equity given the overall facts and circumstances of the
individual case.

Vested rights, in the context of zoning estoppel, focuses primarily on the conduct and interests of the property owner,
and “whether there has been substantial reliance by the owner on governmental actions related to the superseded
zoning that permitted the proposed use.” Western Land Equities v. Logan, 617 P.2d 388, 391 (Utah 1980). Because
estoppel is awarded by the court sitting in equity, and greatly depends on the facts of the individual case, this Office
has generally declined to opine on questions of zoning estoppel.

Here, we maintain that this Office has no authority to declare whether zoning estoppel applies in this case to give the
applicant a vested right to approval of its solar permits. That said, and in this specific case, we acknowledge that the
circumstances presented here involve a somewhat convoluted set of events and disputed facts that could arguably lead
to the conclusion that the applicant relied on certain statements made by city officials, to the applicant’s detriment,
and that the City should be prevented from enforcing the newly enacted ordinance here. We make this observation in
hopes that the parties will take this knowledge into consideration when determining how to best resolve this dispute
at this point.


Advisory Opinion – Snow Garden Apartments / Ephraim City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2021 Page 9 of 10
                                                           CONCLUSION

The Ephraim City Council failed to make the required findings to support a temporary land use
regulation without the process of public input and recommendation from the planning commission;
therefore, its attempted moratorium on solar applications was improper and cannot, itself, be a
basis to deny vested rights to a complete land use application. Here, SGA attempted to complete
an insufficient application despite the moratorium. However, because it did so only after the City
had formally initiated proceedings to amend its ordinances, SGA does not possess a statutory
vested right to approval of its solar permit under the old solar requirements.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Snow Garden Apartments / Ephraim City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April 16, 2021 Page 10 of 10
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based
on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.


Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are
also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
MAILING CERTIFICATE

Section 13-43-206(10)(b) of the Utah Code requires delivery of the attached advisory opinion to
the government entity involved in this matter in a manner that complies with UTAH CODE § 63-
30d-401 (Notices Filed Under the Governmental Immunity Act).

These provisions of state code require that the advisory opinion be delivered to the agent
designated by the governmental entity to receive notices on behalf of the governmental entity in
the Governmental Immunity Act database maintained by the Utah State Department of Commerce,
Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, and to the address shown is as designated in that
database.

The person and address designated in the Governmental Immunity Act database is as follows:


                             Mayor John Scott
                             City of Ephraim
                             5 South Main
                             Ephraim, Utah 84627


On this ___ Day of April, 2021, I caused the attached Advisory Opinion to be delivered to the
governmental office by delivering the same to the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person shown above.




                             ______________________________________________________
                             Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
