                       Advisory Opinion 257
                            Parties: Steve Christensen / Washington County
                                             Issued: June 14, 2022

                                            TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                   Nonconforming Uses & Structures

                                       Interpretation of Ordinances

Prior ordinances that do not plainly restrict a particular use, or are ambiguous,
should be interpreted in favor of an asserted use for purposes of establishing a legal
nonconforming right. Establishing a particular legal use of property under prior
ordinances is not precluded merely by the fact that an occasional illegal use of the
property may have also occurred during the same period.

The landowner has a cabin in the Forest Residential Zone serving as income
property used as a short-term rental by families as well as by certain groups of
unrelated persons. The County’s prior ordinances did not plainly restrict the use of
single-family dwellings by one family as a short-term rental, but multi-family use was
not permitted, and owner-occupied short-term rental was only allowed with a
conditional use permit. The landowner therefore has a legal nonconforming use to
continue short-term rental of the property to a single family as a permitted use
despite current County ordinances additionally restricting short-term rentals. The
County, however, may enforce its ordinances against any continued illegal multi-
family use of the property.

                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                           (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                        1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                             www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                 propertyrights@utah.gov
                             State of Utah
                             Department of Commerce
   SPENCER J. COX            OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
      Governor
                             MARGARET W. BUSSE         JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON          Executive Director         Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION


         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                 Steve Christensen

         Local Government Entity:                       Washington County

         Type of Property:                              Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 June 14, 2022

         Opinion Authored By:                           Richard B. Plehn, Attorney
                                                        Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                        ISSUES

              (1) Was use of a single-family dwelling as a short-term rental historically a permitted use in
                  the County’s Forest Residential Zone prior the County enacting certain restrictions on
                  short-term rentals in recent years? and, if so,
              (2) May the County subject the property owner to its current short-term rental ordinance?

                                          SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

         In reviewing claims of a legal nonconforming use, if the plain language of applicable prior
         ordinances do not plainly prohibit the asserted use, or are ambiguous, the land use authority must
         interpret in favor of the use for purposes of establishing a legal nonconforming right. Additionally,
         the establishment of a particular legal use of property under prior ordinances is not precluded
         merely by the fact that an occasional illegal use of the property may have also occurred during the
         same period.

         In this case, the County’s prior ordinances did not plainly restrict the short-term rental of single-
         family dwellings in the Forest Residential Zone during the applicable period, though such
         permitted rental use was necessarily limited to use by one family, as opposed to a multi-family
         rental, or owner-occupied bed-and-breakfast inns. Here, the property is not owner occupied, and
         appears to have been historically rented both to single families as well as certain groups of
         unrelated persons.
It is undisputed that the County’s current ordinances will not allow for short-term rental of the
property. However, because the County’s prior ordinances did not plainly restrict the short-term
rental use of a single-family dwelling by one family at the time rental use of the property began,
the owner has a legal nonconforming use for one-family short-term rental of the property that is
not subject to existing County ordinances that additionally restrict short-term rentals. The property
owners may therefore continue to rent the property to single families, and the County may not
subject the rental to current regulations that conflict with that established legal use. As the use of
a single-family dwelling as a short-term rental for multiple families was never allowed under prior
ordinances, the County may enforce its ordinances against any continued illegal use of the property
other than as a one-family short-term rental.


                                                      EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Steve Christensen, received on December
        8, 2022.
     2. Washington County Response to Advisory Opinion Request, submitted by Victoria H.
        Hales, Deputy County Attorney, dated January 7, 2022.
     3. Steve Christensen Reply to County’s Response, dated February 7, 2022.

                                                     BACKGROUND

Steven and Denise Christensen purchased a lot in the Pine Valley Ranchos subdivision in 2002,
located in the unincorporated area of Washington County called Pine Valley, and built a single-
family cabin on the lot in about 2003. The subdivision is in the Forest Residential zone (“FR Zone),
13,500 sq. ft. minimum lot size.1

Beginning in approximately August of 2012, the Christensen’s began renting the cabin as a short-
term rental. The cabin is not owner occupied; Mr. Christensen is retired, and states that the short-
term rental is an important part of his income. Very little information is provided by the
Christensen’s about how the cabin was rented, or who it was rented to, except that they used the
rental services Airbnb and Vrbo. As best as can be discerned from the information made available
by the owner’s Airbnb listing, the cabin appears to accommodate up to 12 guests.2 The




1
   While County ordinances provide that “zone” is synonymous with “district,” County ordinances historically defined
“districts” as “portion[s] of the area of a zone as shown on a map attached to the zoning ordinance and given a district
name. WASHINGTON COUNTY CODE Ch. 28, Section 22 (1978). The Christensen property is therefore considered to
be in the FR-13.5 district of the larger FR Zone.
2
  See          Pine           Valley,          Utah         Cabin,          AIRBNB.COM,            available          at
https://www.airbnb.com/rooms/578299?location=Pine%20Valley%2C%20Utah%2C%20United%20States&federate
d_search_id=211bc684-f6e1-4087-8858-
333d6ec69d89&source_impression_id=p3_1649712316_YvbEXRXOqdIGPOCN.

Advisory Opinion – Christensen / Washington County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April *, 2022 Page 2 of 8
Christensen’s Vrbo listing likewise states that the cabin can sleep 12 in a total of four bedrooms.3
Several included guest reviews almost all refer to rentals by families.

In 2016, the County amended its land use ordinances to add “Tourist Homes” as a permitted use
in the FR Zone. In order to be considered a Tourist Home under the County’s land use ordinances,
one must be registered with the state, have a county business license and have completed a tourist
home rental application, among other requirements. The Christensen’s have never obtained a
County business license or submitted a tourist home rental application.

In October of 2021, the County enacted a Short Term Rental (“STR”) ordinance that added
additional restrictions to short-term rentals, including that the property be the primary residence of
the owner. On November 19, 2021, the County sent a letter to the Christensen’s informing them
that they were in violation of both the Tourist Homes Policy and the County’s new STR ordinance.
The County asked Mr. Christensen to obtain a license pursuant to the ordinance. This will not be
possible under the current STR ordinance as the cabin is not the Christensen’s primary residence.

Mr. Christensen alleges that when he then asked the County for an application to be
“grandfathered” under prior ordinances, the County responded that it had no such application, and
was not grandfathering anyone for the new license.

Mr. Christensen filed a Request for an Advisory Opinion on December 8, 2021 to review whether
the County’s prior ordinances would have allowed for the short-term rental of his cabin, and if he
therefore would be entitled to a legal nonconforming use in renting his cabin.


                                                     ANALYSIS

     I.          Timeliness and Appropriateness of the Request

In responding to the Request for an Advisory Opinion, the County initially challenges the
timeliness and appropriateness of the Request, arguing that the Christensen’s have not applied for
or sought any County approvals for the short-term rental during the times claimed, and the Request
is based merely on the November 19, 2021 letter informing the Christensen’s of the short-term
rental violation. The County believes that because it asked the owners to complete a short-term
rental application and obtain a business license to come into compliance with the 2021 rules, the
Request for an Advisory Opinion is premature because the Christensen’s have not submitted the
responsive application and subsequently been denied or rejected.

We disagree with the County and believe its position overlooks the asserted basis of the
Christensen’s request. The Christensen’s argue that short-term rental of their cabin was legal at the
time they undertook that use, and believe that they are therefore entitled to a legal nonconforming
use under state law. The Christensen’s argument, if true, would make applying for any permissions
under the current regulatory scheme unnecessary, because they would be considered to already
have a permitted use.

3
   See Over Looking Pine Valley With Beautiful Views and Things To Do, VRBO.COM, available at
https://www.vrbo.com/512351.

Advisory Opinion – Christensen / Washington County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April *, 2022 Page 3 of 8
Further, the Christensen’s claim that they did, in fact, attempt to “apply” to have their legal
nonconforming use recognized by the County. Not only did the County respond that no such
application exists, the Christensen’s allege that the County affirmatively told them that they were
not allowing any grandfathered uses for the short-term rental requirements. That considered, the
Christensen’s appear to have tried to comply with whatever application procedure the County has
in place regarding legal nonconforming uses, and their request was received and acted upon by the
County in the form of a denial.

We therefore believe the issue is appropriate and timely for an Advisory Opinion on the question
of whether the County’s prior ordinances allowed for short-term rental of the cabin. However,
whether the Christensen’s have established that they have a legal nonconforming use under state
law is yet to be determined, as the Christensen’s have yet been given an opportunity to present any
evidence of their use to the County. Based on the County’s own conclusions in its submissions for
this Advisory Opinion, we assume that this burden can be met.

     II.         Nonconformity Rights

A legal nonconforming, or “grandfathered” use means “a use of land that: (a) legally existed before
the current land use designation; (b) has been maintained continuously since the time the land use
ordinance regulation governing the land changed; and (3) because of one or more subsequent land
use ordinance changes, does not conform to the regulations that now govern the use of the land.”4

The property owner has the burden of establishing the legal existence of a legal nonconforming
use which requires both a factual determination, and a legal interpretation. The County does not
appear to dispute the fact that the Christensen’s have rented their cabin since approximately 2012.
It is also undisputed that the cabin is not owner occupied. The dispute therefore lies in whether the
rental of the Christensen’s cabin at that time it began would have been a legal use without any
additional permission from the County.

As such, we view our task as simply a question of interpreting the uses permitted under the
County’s prior ordinances. In reviewing whether local ordinances permit a particular land use, a
land use authority is to apply the plain language of applicable land use ordinances, and if a land
use regulation does not plainly restrict a particular use, the land use authority must interpret and
apply the land use regulation to favor the use.5 This is because, as “zoning ordinances are in
derogation of a property owner's common-law right to unrestricted use of his or her property,
provisions therein restricting property uses should be strictly construed, and provisions permitting
property uses should be liberally construed in favor of the property owner.”6

Therefore, in reviewing prior versions of the County’s ordinances, if the applicable ordinances do
not plainly prohibit the short-term rental of a single-family dwelling in the FR-13.5 district, the
County must consider the use as permitted for purposes of nonconforming rights.


4
  UTAH CODE § 17-27a-103(47).
5
  UTAH CODE § 17-27a-308.
6
  Patterson v. Utah County Bd. of Adjustment, 893 P.2d 602, 606 (Utah Ct. App. 1995).

Advisory Opinion – Christensen / Washington County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April *, 2022 Page 4 of 8
     III.        Legality of Short-term Rentals under Prior Ordinances

The County briefly reviews the history of applicable land use ordinances for the FR 13.5 Zone
during the lifetime of the property. Comprehensive revisions were made to the zoning ordinances
in 2004, which were the zoning ordinances in effect during the relevant period when the
Christensen’s began using their cabin for short-term rentals in 2012.

The County’s 2004 ordinances provided in the FR Zone a selection of permitted uses, as well as a
list of conditional uses. Conditional uses are those uses which, because of potential impacts, may
not be compatible without certain conditions to mitigate or eliminate detrimental impacts.7

The 2004 County ordinances provided, in the FR Zone, for the following permitted uses:

     •      Accessory buildings and uses after a building permit has been issued for a permanent
            dwelling;
     •      Agriculture;
     •      Residential facility for persons with a disability; and
     •      Single-family dwellings for year-round use.

Additionally, the following conditional uses were provided:

     •      Bed and breakfast inn;
     •      Lodges and dude ranches (only applicable to FR 5 or FR 10 districts);
     •      Overnight camping facilities;
     •      Private recreation and facilities;
     •      Public buildings;
     •      Public utilities; and
     •      “Other uses approved by the Planning Commission as being in harmony with the intent of
            the zone and similar in nature to the above listed uses.”

The County’s position is that, at the time the Christensen’s began renting their cabin in 2012, the
use of the cabin for short-term rental was considered a “lodge” under the 2004 County ordinances,
which was not permitted in the FR 13.5 zone, or, alternatively, a bed and breakfast inn, which
required a conditional use permit.

In 2016, the County added “Tourist Homes (County business license required)” as a permitted use
in the FR Zone. The County’s land use ordinance defined Tourist Home in a way that only allowed
short-term rental as a permitted use if a number of requirements were met, including obtaining a
county business license, registering with the state, and completing a tourist home rental
application.8 It is undisputed that the Christensens’s never obtained a county business license or

7
  WASHINGTON COUNTY CODE § 10-18-1 (2004).
8
  TOURIST HOME: An establishment used for short term dwelling purposes in which the entire dwelling or rooms,
with or without meals, are rented or otherwise made available to transient guests for compensation; including
establishments listed, or advertised online, or known as bed and breakfasts. All tourist homes shall be required to
register with the state, obtain a business license and complete the tourist home rental application. The licensee for
tourist homes shall be the home owner who shall be deemed the responsible party for the tourist home. All tourist

Advisory Opinion – Christensen / Washington County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April *, 2022 Page 5 of 8
completed the rental application required by the 2016 ordinances. It is therefore the County’s
position that there is no legal nonconforming right for the Christensen’s cabin rental as a Tourist
Home under the 2016 ordinances as it did not meet many of the substantive provisions of that
permitted use, as defined.

We agree with the County that because the Christensen’s’ never obtained County business license
or complete a short-term rental application, rental of the Christensen’s cabin did not qualify as a
permitted use under the 2016 “Tourist Home” provisions during that time. However, we do not
believe that the earlier 2004 ordinances, effective at the time the cabin began to be rented in 2012,
plainly restricted all short-term rental uses of a single-family dwelling without a conditional use
permit in the FR-13.5 district. Namely, the FR Zone permitted the short-term rental of a single-
family dwellings as a permitted residential use, so long as occupied by one family, not multiple
families.

We turn to the permitted uses, which include “single-family dwellings for year-round use.” A
“single-family dwelling” is a structure, not a use. Therefore, the County’s ordinances appear to
allow “year-round use” of single-family dwellings without much further elaboration. It can safely
be inferred, from the title of the ordinance, that “residential use” may be permitted in the “Forrest
Residential” Zone.9Turning to the County’s definitions, “residential use” is defined as
“[c]ustomarily includes overnight use of a room or rooms with independent facilities for sleeping
combined with a private bath and/or kitchen.” Unlike the definition of “residence,”10 this definition
of “residential use” appears not to be limited to permanent residents, only, but more generally
allows “overnight use” of the structure so long as it features facilities for sleeping, bathing, and
eating. Nonresidents, then, such as “temporary guests”—defined as “Guests, who are not family
members, whose duration of visit shall be less than thirty (30) days during a consecutive one
hundred eighty (180) day period”—do not appear to be plainly restricted.11 In other words, use of

homes must have a managing agent who will serve as the primary contact for the tourist home. All tourist homes shall
be properly managed. As a condition to holding a valid business license for a tourist home, or homes, the licensee
agrees to provide or arrange for adequate property management services including; housekeeping, yard maintenance,
structural maintenance and compliance with general building health and safety requirements, trash collection which
insures that trash cans are not left on the street for any period in excess of twenty four (24) hours, and assurance and
enforcement of guest meeting the requirements of good neighbor practices. Good neighbor practices includes: no loud
music, unruly parties, guest vehicles shall be parked on off street parking and be courteous to neighbors. Failure to
comply by the above mentioned rules may result in a citation, fines and/or the business license being revoked.
COUNTY ORD.10-4-1 (2016).
9
  See, Blaisdell v. Dentrix Dental Sys., 2012 UT 37, ¶ 10, 284 P.3d 616, 620 (Holding that “[t]he title of a[n ordinance]
is not part of the text of [an ordinance], and absent ambiguity, it is generally not used to determine [an ordinance]'s
intent. However, it is persuasive and can aid in ascertaining [the ordinance's] correct interpretation and application”);
See also, Price Dev. Co. v. Orem City, 2000 UT 26, ¶ 23, 995 P.2d 1237, 1246 (holding that legislative preambles or
policy sections are not substantive parts of an ordinance, but “provide guidance to the reader as to how the [ordinance]
should be enforced and interpreted,” and “may be used to clarify ambiguities
10
   Defined as “any building or portion thereof where an individual is actually living at a given point in time and intends
to remain, and not a place of temporary sojourn or transient visit.” WASHINGTON COUNTY CODE 10-4-1 (2004).
Contrast this with “temporary guests,” which are as “Guests, who are not family members, whose duration of visit
shall be less than thirty (30) days during a consecutive one hundred eighty (180) day period.” Id.
11
   This is consistent with Brown v. Sandy City Bd. Of Adjustment, 957 P.2d 207 (Utah Ct. App. 1998), where the Utah
Court of Appeals concluded that, in absence of any plain restriction on duration of use, a city’s zoning ordinance did
not prohibit the leasing of property for less than thirty days. In that case, Sandy City’s ordinance permitted use of a
single-family dwelling, defined as allowing for occupancy by one family, and defining family as “an individual or two

Advisory Opinion – Christensen / Washington County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April *, 2022 Page 6 of 8
a single-family dwelling by temporary guests is not inconsistent with residential use of a single-
family dwelling under the County’s 2004 ordinances.

However, while “single-family dwelling” is a structure, it also may reasonably be inferred as a
qualifier to the allowable uses of the dwelling, in that use of a single-family dwelling is reasonably
limited to use of the structure by one singular “family,” and not use by multiple families.12 Here,
the County’s 2004 ordinances defined “family” as one or more persons related by blood, marriage,
adoption or guardianship, “or a group of not more than five (5) unrelated persons living together
as a single nonprofit household keeping unit . . . .”

Because of this, and in construing the plain language of land use ordinances liberally in favor of
the property owner, the County’s 2004 ordinances for the FR-13.5 district’s listed permitted use
of “single-family dwelling for year-round use” does not, itself, exclude the short-term rental of a
single-family dwelling to one family as a “residential use.”

However, to the extent that a short-term rental use is captured in one of the County’s other defined
uses, particularly those listed as conditional uses in the FR zones, it must appropriately be defined
to be a conditional use. In other words, “single-family dwellings for year-round use” may include
short-term rental except where otherwise qualified as a “bed and breakfast inn,” “lodge or dude
ranch,” “overnight camping facilities,” or “Private recreation and facilities.”13 The County argues
that the Christensens’s use of the property should be considered either a “bed and breakfast inn”
or “lodge.”

 “Bed and breakfast inn” is not defined by County ordinances. Where a statutory term is
undefined, courts endeavor to determine its plain and ordinary meaning.14 And while it could be


or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, or a group not to exceed four unrelated persons living together
as a single housekeeping unit.” The ordinance prohibited a building from being used for any purpose or manner other
than is included among the uses listed as permitted or conditional uses. Sandy City began to interpret this as prohibiting
rental of any single-family dwelling for fewer than 30 days. The Court of Appeals rejected the city’s interpretation,
holding that the code specifically permitted use of a dwelling for occupancy by a single family, without any express
durational limit. “Thus, if a single family occupies a home, the structure is being used as permitted.” Id. at 211.
12
   In South Weber v. Cobblestone, 2022 UT App 63, the city in that case adopted an ordinance regulating short-term
vacation rentals, requiring a conditional use permit and a business license. A property owner sought a legal
nonconforming use for short-term rental of a residence in an agricultural zone in light of the new ordinances. The
agricultural zone listed as a permitted use, “dwellings, one-family.” The property owner argued that use of the property
for short-term rental prior to the new ordinance was permitted as a “dwelling,” because dwelling was merely defined
as a “building designed and used for residential purposes.” The Utah Court of Appeals rejected this argument, finding
it focused only on the building as a structure itself rather than the structure’s use, and wholly ignored the restriction
that all dwellings located in the agricultural zone be limited to “one-family” dwellings. Id., at ¶21.
13
   See, for example, Town of Alta v. Ben Hame Corp., 836 P.2d 797, 802 (Utah 1992). That case involved regulations
and circumstances very similar to this matter. Salt Lake County ordinances applicable to the property, adopted by Alta
upon annexation, provided for three permitted uses in the Forest Recreation zone: (1) agriculture, (2) single-family
dwellings, and (3) accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a permitted use. However, the Court noted
that not included in single-family dwelling were hotels, apartment hotels, boarding houses, lodging houses, mobile
homes, tourist courts and apartment courts, which were separately defined uses under the ordinances. The Court
ultimately concluded that, while the structure was a single-family dwelling, the use of the structure in that case met
the broad definition of a lodging facility adopted by Alta, and held that using a single-family dwelling as a lodging
facility did not constitute an “accessory use[] . . . customarily incidental to a permitted use” under the ordinances
14
   Muddy Boys, Inc. v. DOC, 2019 UT App 33, ¶ 16, 440 P.3d 741, 745.

Advisory Opinion – Christensen / Washington County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April *, 2022 Page 7 of 8
argued that the rental of a single-family dwelling on a website like Airbnb quintessentially makes
it a bed and breakfast (after all, “Airbnb” literally stands for “Air Bed and Breakfast”), a contrary
argument could be made that what traditionally constitutes a bed and breakfast is both an element
of owner occupancy, as well as the inclusion of a full breakfast by the host.15 It is the experience
of this office, however, that across Utah, municipalities have varied in their definitions of bed
and breakfasts, with some hinging on owner occupancy,16 while others not,17 and yet others
requiring a meal to be provided,18 while optional in others.19

We conclude that the FR Zone, interpreted as a whole, provides guidance that the meaning of Bed
and Breakfast inn at least anticipates an element of owner occupancy. As discussed, the FR zone
allows use of single-family dwellings by single families. However, a Bed and Breakfast inn is
called out as requiring a conditional use permit in order to mitigate or eliminate anticipated
detrimental impacts. It is assumed, therefore, that use of a single-family dwelling as a bed and
breakfast inn would have some additional impact beyond that use of the same dwelling by a single-
family. Were the Christensen’s to use the cabin as their primary residence, and also begin inviting
other families as guests to come occupy available rooms of their cabin overnight for compensation,
this would unquestionably add an additional impact to the property and surrounding uses.

At any rate, in absence of a definition by County ordinances, the reference in prior code to “Bed
and Breakfast” is, at best, ambiguous, and must be interpreted favorably for the property owner’s
proposed use. In this case, that would mean that as the Christensen’s short-term rental of their
cabin since 2012 has been without owner occupancy or provided meals, it would not be considered
a bed and breakfast requiring a conditional use permit, but rather a permitted use of their single-
family dwelling for residential use by temporary guests.
15
   See, for example, USATODAY.com, How is an Airbnb different from a B&B? Which is better for your vacation?
https://www.usatoday.com/story/travel/hotels/2020/01/24/airbnb-vs-b-b-whats-difference-and-which-is-better-for-
you/4552257002/.
16
   See, for example, CITY OF CEDAR HILLS CITY CODE § 10-2-1, “BED AND BREAKFAST FACILITY: A one-family
dwelling, occupied by a residing family and containing one or more sleeping rooms intended for the occupancy by
persons unrelated to the residing family on a short term basis (overnight and up to 2 weeks)” (emphasis added); see
also, AMERICAN FORK CITY CODE § 17.4.608, Section 8 (Definitions): Bed and Breakfast: an owner-occupied lodging
type offering up to 5 bedrooms, permitted to serve breakfast in the mornings to guests (emphasis added).
17
   See, for example, EAGLE MOUNTAIN MUNICIPAL CODE § 17.10.030 “Bed and breakfast facility” means a limited
commercial activity conducted within a structure, which includes dining and bathroom facilities with sleeping rooms,
on a residential scale for short-term guest rental. This definition will typically involve overnight accommodations,
limited food services, parking facilities and open space in a natural setting.
18
   See, for example, PLEASANT GROVE CITY CODE §10-6-2: BED AND BREAKFAST: A residential building of historic
or neighborhood significance in which not fewer than three (3) but not more than nine (9) rooms are rented out by the
day, offering overnight lodgings to tourists, and where one meal shall be provided to overnight paying guests”
(emphasis added); see also SALEM CITY MUNICIPAL CODE § 14-1-040(G) “‘Bed and Breakfast Inn’--Any building
which is used to provide temporary lodging and simple meals for no more than two or three days and nights to the
traveling public” (emphasis added).
19
   See, for example, SARATOGA SPRINGS CITY CODE § 19.02.02(23): “‘Bed and Breakfast’ means a transient lodging
establishment, generally in a single family dwelling or detached guesthouses which is owner or operator occupied,
primarily engaged in providing overnight or otherwise temporary lodging for the general public for compensation,
and where meals may or may not be provided”; see also SANTAQUIN CITY CODE § 10-2-2: “BED AND BREAKFAST
HOME: A single-family dwelling with not less than two (2) and not more than eight (8) guestrooms where lodging,
with or without meals, is provided for compensation with stays not to exceed twenty nine (29) days.”



Advisory Opinion – Christensen / Washington County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April *, 2022 Page 8 of 8
As for “lodge,” the code defines “lodge” as a “multiple family dwelling where lodging only is
provided for compensation to persons related or unrelated” (emphasis added). Because the County
defines “family” as “not more than five (5) unrelated persons,” it seems that renting the
Christensen’s cabin at full capacity (apparently 12 guests) to a group of unrelated persons would
make the use of the Christensen’s property an illegal “lodge,” as lodging multiple families—
whether persons related or unrelated—for compensation.

The fact that the Christensen’s may have illegally used their cabin as a “lodge” under the County’s
2004 ordinances where rented to more than five unrelated persons does not negate the fact that it
was also legally used for residential use where rented to single families under the same ordinances.
For purposes of establishing a legal nonconforming use, it must only be shown that the particular
use in question “legally existed” before a change in ordinances, and was maintained
continuously,20 not necessarily that the property itself was, in all respects, put only to that legal
use.

The Christensen’s bear the burden of establishing the existence of a legal nonconforming use. The
Christensen’s attempted to initiate a formal process with the Count to have a legal nonconforming
right recognized, and were turned away because there was no such process. The Christensen’s
must have an opportunity to present their evidence to the County, however, the County appears to
accept as true the Christensen’s assertions that they began renting their cabin in 2012, and has also
concluded from its investigation that the Christensen’s cabin has not been owner occupied.
Because the County’s 2004 ordinances, in effect at that time, do not plainly restrict the short-term
rental of a single-family dwelling not amounting to a bed-and-breakfast inn, and assuming the
factual burden has sufficiently been met, the Christensen’s should be considered to have a legal
nonconforming use to rent their property on a short-term basis- to single families. This
grandfathers their use to the extent it conflicts with the County’s 2016 Tourist Home ordinances,
and the recent short-term rental ordinances.

                                                     CONCLUSION

The County does not challenge the Christensen’s assertions that they have used their cabin as a
short-term rental continuously, beginning in 2012, and concedes that the cabin is not owner-
occupied. Because the County’s 2004 ordinances, in effect during the applicable period of the
asserted use, do not plainly restrict short-term rental of single-family dwellings by one family as a
permitted residential use, the Christensen’s have met their burden of establishing a legal
nonconforming use that is not subject to the County’s subsequent changes to the law regulating
short-term rentals.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
20
     UTAH CODE § 17-27a-103(47).

Advisory Opinion – Christensen / Washington County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
April *, 2022 Page 9 of 8
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based
on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are
also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
