                     Advisory Opinion #291
                                Parties: Roger Stephens; Summit County
                                          Issued: July 31, 2024

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                       Interpretation of Ordinances

The subject property is a residential condominium falling under the authority of a development
agreement. The property is zoned “Hotel/Lodging” within the Resort Core in this development
agreement, which according to the plain language, allows for short-term occupation only.

The development agreement does allow for up to 10% of the beds within the Resort Core to be
occupied on a long-term basis, however, this use is restricted to parcels designated with the
“Residential” use. The subject property is not included in this designation.
Therefore, the subject property may not be occupied as a primary residence.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor               MARGARET W. BUSSE        JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                             Executive Director        Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor



                                                  ADVISORY OPINION

         Advisory Opinion Requested by:                Roger Stephens

         Local Government Entity:                      Summit County

         Property Owner:                               Roger Stephens

         Type of Property:                             Specially Planned Area

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                July 31, 2024

         Opinion Authored By:                          Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                                       Issue

         May a residential condominium zoned “Hotel/Lodging” be occupied as a primary residence?

                                          Summary of Advisory Opinion

         The subject property is a residential condominium falling under the authority of a development
         agreement. The property is zoned “Hotel/Lodging” within the Resort Core in this development
         agreement, which according to the plain language, allows for short-term occupation only.

         The development agreement does allow for up to 10% of the beds within the Resort Core to be
         occupied on a long-term basis, however, this use is restricted to parcels designated with the
         “Residential” use. The subject property is not included in this designation.

         Therefore, the subject property may not be occupied as a primary residence.

                                                      Evidence

         The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
         Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:
            1. Request for an Advisory Opinion submitted by Roger Stephens on February 8, 2024.
            2. Response letter from Helen E. Strachan, on behalf of Summit County, on March 1, 2024.
     3. Response from Roger Stephens consisting of a letter on March 5, 2024, and a letter on
        March 7, 2024, with additional information to be considered.
     4. Response letter from Helen E. Strachan, on behalf of Summit County, on March 22,
        2024.
     5. Response letter from Roger Stephens on March 26, 2024.

                                                   Background
Roger Stephens (Property Owner) owns a residential condominium in the Sundial Lodge
Condominium project (Property) within the Canyons Resort development in Summit County,
Utah. The Property Owner has been leasing the property to tenants who live in the property year-
round as their permanent residence.

The Property is subject to a development agreement, known as the Amended and Restated
Development Agreement for the Canyons Specially Planned Area (Canyons Plan), which
designates, among other items, the uses, densities, and configurations for the Canyons Resort
project. The Canyons Plan was agreed to and adopted in 1999 and includes a guiding development
principle to “maximize resort/guest accommodation and minimize private residences.” Statement
of Global Principles, 3.

The Sundial Lodge Condominium project is within the “Resort Core” zoning designation. The
residential use listed for the Property parcels is “hotel/lodging” which allows only short-term
occupancy by the unit owner or others. However, the Canyons Plan also includes an allowance
whereby up to 10% of the beds in the Resort Core may be used for long-term residential occupancy.
The Property Owner maintains that the Property qualifies for long-term use under this 10%
allowance.1

In October of 2023, the Property Owner applied for and received a primary residential tax
exemption through the Summit County Assessor’s Office. Now aware that the Property is occupied
on a long-term basis, County zoning enforcement filed and served a Notice of Violation against
the Property Owner. The citation is for a failure to abide by the restriction against occupying the
Property as a primary residence due to occupancy limitations the County maintains apply to the
Property.


1
 The Property Owner makes several additional arguments to support his position which do not fall under our Advisory
Opinion authority. For instance, he maintains that the Canyons Plan is over 150 pages long with the occupancy
restrictions buried in the middle which fails to give buyers notice. While sympathetic to this claim, the length of a
development agreement does not void its provisions. The Property Owner next argues that the CC&Rs allows
permanent occupancy, therefore it must be legal. However, CC&R provisions are private land use controls that may
add private community restrictions above or beyond general land use restrictions imposed by local ordinance, but do
not operate so as to allow that which is prohibited by applicable land use regulations, including a development
agreement The Property Owner also states that cats and dogs are allowed and by extension full-time residential use
must therefore be lawful. However, short-term tenants may travel with pets making use of this allowance. The Property
Owner also states that he thinks Utah law allows him to use his property as he sees fit. That is true only as to any
allowed use of property not otherwise expressly prohibited by regulation. See, Western Land Equities v. City of Logan,
617 P.2d 388 (Utah 1980) (an owner of property holds it subject to zoning ordinances enacted pursuant to a locality’s
police power).

Advisory Opinion – Stephens / Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2024, Page 2 of 5
The Property Owner has requested this Advisory Opinion to answer whether the Property, a
residential condominium in a resort community, may lawfully be occupied as a primary residence.
                                                  Analysis

     I.          The Canyons Plan designates the Property as “Hotel/Lodging” which permits
                 short-term rentals only.

The Canyons Plan is a development agreement entered into in November of 1999. Different
aspects of the Canyons Plan have been subject to several lawsuits which provide us with directly
applicable guidance from the courts. According to the Utah Supreme Court “the parties agreed to
take specified steps to develop the Canyons Resort in exchange for the County’s approval of the
projects, assistance in obtaining permits from other governmental agencies, and other support.”
Osguthorpe v. Wolf Mt. Resorts, L.C., 2013 UT 12, ¶2, 322 P.3d 620 (Sup.Ct.).

Furthermore, the Utah Supreme Court has outlined how the Canyons Plan should be interpreted:

           The underlying purpose in construing or interpreting a contract is to ascertain the
           intentions of the parties to the contract.” WebBank v. Am. Gen. Annuity Serv. Corp.,
           2002 UT 88, ¶ 17, 54 P.3d 1139. To ascertain the parties’ intentions, we look to the
           plain meaning of the contractual language, Café Rio, Inc. v. Larkin-Gifford-
           Overton, LLC, 2009 UT 27, ¶ 25, 207 P.3d 1235, and “we consider each contract
           provision . . . in relation to all of the others, with a view toward giving effect to all
           and ignoring none,” Selvig v. Blockbuster Enters., LC, 2011 UT 39, ¶ 23, 266 P.3d
           691 (alteration in original) (internal quotation marks omitted).

Id. at ¶10. More generally, the Utah Supreme Court has said “[i]f the language within the four
corners of the contract is unambiguous, the parties’ intentions are determined from the plain
meaning of the contractual language, and the contract may be interpreted as a matter of law.”
Green River Canal Co. v. Thayn, 2003 UT 50, P 17, 84 P.3d 1134. (ellipses in original) (internal
quotation marks omitted).

While agreed to several decades ago, the Canyons Plan is binding upon subsequent owners. As
stated in Section 6.3 of the Canyons Plan, the agreement forms a “Covenant Running with Land.
This Amended Agreement shall be recorded against all legal parcels of record within the Property
described in Summit County Ordinance 333-A. All terms and conditions contained herein shall be
deemed to ‘run with the land’ and shall be binding on and shall inure to the benefit of all successors
in ownership of parcels within the Property. . .” (emphasis added).

The Canyons Plan includes Global Principles which provide directions to make beds available for
resort and guest accommodation: “Required Unit Configurations and Occupancy for all
Development in the Canyons Resort Community to Maximize Resort/Guest Accommodation and
Minimize Private Residences. This principle is met through the limitation requiring that no less
than 80% of all beds in the Resort Center are allocated to resort and guest accommodations, and
within the Resort Core, no less than 90% of the beds are allocated to resort and guest
accommodations.” The Canyons Plan, Section 13.C (emphasis added).


Advisory Opinion – Stephens / Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2024, Page 3 of 5
With that direction in mind, we next look at the specific requirements attached to the Property.
The Canyons Plan, Exhibit C, Land Use Zoning Map designates the Property use as
“Hotel/Lodging.”




                                     Black arrow depicts approximate location of the Property.

The Sundial Lodge Condominium project lies on Parcels RC 2 and RC 3 and is designated “Resort
Core” within the Canyons Plan. The primary use listed for parcels RC2 and RC3 is “hotel/lodging”
with “accommodation” as well as “commercial/retail support” square footage also allocated. The
Canyons Specially Planned Area Master Development Plan, Land Use & Zoning Table, page 1 of
5.

The designation “Hotel/Lodging” is defined within the Canyons Plan as “a unit which shall contain
attributes of a hotel or facility established for similar purposes and which shall be available for
short-term occupancy by the unit owner or others.”

The Canyons Plan also defines “Residential Units” as “a dwelling unit which may be used as a
primary residence.” Therefore, areas designated “Hotel/Lodging” may be used for short-term
occupancy and those designated “Residential Units” may be used as primary residences.

The Canyons Plan does allow for up to 10% of the beds in the Resort Core to be allocated as other
than resort and guest accommodations. The Canyons Plan, Section 13.C. “There shall be no more
than ten percent (10%) of the beds allocated to primary residential dwelling units in the Resort
Core.” The Canyons Plan, Global Principles and Policies, Section 3. Such long-term use is
accommodated in Parcels RC 15, RC 16b, PC 24, and RC 25 where Residential uses are permitted.
The Canyons Specially Planned Area Master Development Plan, Land Use & Zoning Table, page
2 of 5. However, the Parcels the Property is located on is not included in this 10% exception. The
Property lies on Parcels RC 2 and RC 3.


Advisory Opinion – Stephens / Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2024, Page 4 of 5
In summary, according to the plain language of the Canyons Plan, the Property may not be used
as a primary residence. This Property, in particular, is designated for Hotel/lodging uses which
allows only short-term occupancy.

                                              Conclusion

Short-term occupancy is the only permitted residential use of the Property. The County may
lawfully restrict the Property from being used as a permanent residence.

There are other parcels in the development zoned “Residential” which permits permanent
residency. However, the subject property is not included in this designation.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Stephens / Summit County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
July 31, 2024, Page 5 of 5
NOTE:
This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not constitute
legal advice and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of Utah
or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a summary
review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter and may or may not reflect the
opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and circumstances are
different or where the relevant law may have changed.
While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.
An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.
Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in § 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are also
designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
