                     Advisory Opinion #204
                                Parties: Ryan Walz; City of American Fork
                                       Issued: December 12, 2018

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                               Impact Fees Act

If a development will detain all of its storm water, and thus not use the City’s storm water
system, it will have no impact on the City’s system. Thus the City cannot charge impact
fees to the developer for storm sewer. Potential use of the City system in the event that
the flow exceeds the project’s detention capacity are speculative and do not justify
charging the full impact fee. Impact fees cannot be charged where development has no
impacts.

UTAH CODE § 10-6-160(4)(ii), states that a city cannot enforce a plan review
requirement on plans that have been stamped by a licensed engineer or architect. This
provision applies only to residential development. Since the development in question is a
commercial project, that statute does not apply, and the City can charge plan review
fees.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                      The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                      Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                      PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                      160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
                            State of Utah
                            Department of Commerce
GARY R. HERBERT             OFFICE OF THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OMBUDSMAN
    Governor
                            FRANCINE A. GIANI     BRENT N. BATEMAN
 SPENCER J. COX             Executive Director    Lead Attorney, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Lieutenant Governor




                                             ADVISORY OPINION
        Advisory Opinion Requested By:               Ryan Walz

        Local Government Entity:                     American Fork City

        Type of Property:                            Commercial Development

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:               December 12, 2018

        Opinion Authored By:                         Brent N. Bateman
                                                     Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                      ISSUE
        Can the City charge (1) Storm Sewer Impact Fees against a development that will detain all of its
        storm sewer runoff, and (2) plan check fees on commercial development where plans have been
        stamped by a licensed engineer or architect?


                                      SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION
        If the development of the Marina Cove Phase 3 will detain all of its storm water, and thus not use
        the City’s storm water system, it will have no impact on the City’s system. Thus the City cannot
        charge impact fees to the developer for storm sewer. Potential use of the City system in the event
        that the flow exceeds the project’s detention capacity are speculative and do not justify charging
        the full impact fee. Likewise, concerns about charging the fee to every new project in order to
        maintain the level of service at a lower cost is not supported by the Impact Fee Act. Impact fees
        cannot be charged where development has no impacts.

        UTAH CODE § 10-6-160(4)(ii), states that a city cannot enforce a plan review requirement that has
        been stamped by a licensed engineer or architect. The tenets of statutory construction require that
        this provision be read to apply only to residential development. Since the Marina Cove Phase 3 is
        a commercial project, that statute does not apply, and the City can charge plan review fees to
        Marina Cove Phase 3.
                                                      REVIEW
A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final
decision by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of UTAH CODE § 13-43-205.
An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that such a review can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and
neutral forum, and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at
the end of this opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in
the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Ryan Walz on August 21, 2018. A copy
of that request was sent via certified mail to Terilyn Lurker, City Recorder, City of American
Fork, 51 East Main Street, American Fork, Utah.

                                                     EVIDENCE
The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Ryan Walz on August 21, 2018.
     2. Response from Cherylyn M. Egner, Attorney for the City of American Fork, on October
        1, 2018
                                                    BACKGROUND
Ryan Walz is the owner of the Marina Cove commercial development in American Fork City. On
March 14, 2018, Mr. Walz submitted to the City a final request for building permit to enable him
to construct Phase 3 of the development.

Following the application, the City’s Public Works department forwarded to Mr. Walz an invoice
totaling $109,380.73. Impact fees for storm drain, road, police, and fire represented the most
significant charges on the invoice by far. The invoice also contained charges for plan checks,
building permits, and for other fees.

Mr. Walz has requested this Advisory Opinion because he feels that at least two of the fees on the
invoice, the storm drain impact fees and the plan check fees, are unjustified and illegal. Mr. Walz
argues that the storm drainage will be entirely contained within his property, and thus he should
not have to pay storm drain impact fees if his development has no impact on the system. Further,
Mr. Walz argues that UTAH CODE § 10-6-160(4)(ii) exempts him from plan review because the
plans were stamped by a licensed architect or engineer.

The City admits that the development will detain its storm runoff, but argues that the
development nonetheless has an impact on the City storm drain system because the storm drain
system is intended to serve all properties within the City and each property must pay its share to
Advisory Opinion – Ryan Walz & American Fork City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 12, 2018         Page 2 of 5
maintain the level of service. Also, should the developer’s system fail, the City must maintain the
capacity to accommodate the developer’s runoff.

The City further argues that it is entitled to charge plan check fees on Phase 3 because UTAH
CODE § 10-6-160(4) applies only to residential development and not to commercial development.

                                                    ANALYSIS
           I. Impact Fees May Only Be Charged for Impacts on the System

The Utah Impact Fees Act, found in Chapter 11-36a of the Utah Code, defines an impact fee as

           a payment of money imposed upon new development activity as a condition of
           development approval to mitigate the impact of the new development on public
           infrastructure.

UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(8)(a). Development creates impacts on public infrastructure. Impact
fees are a way for a development to pay for the impacts it creates. Impact fees are a type of
exaction, Salt Lake County v. Bd. of Educ., 808 P.2d 1056, 1058 (Utah 1991), and must therefore
be roughly proportional, both in nature and extent, to the impacts created by the development
activity. See UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1).

As its name implies, impact fees are a function of impacts. As with all exactions, the amount of
the fee must be roughly proportional to the amount of impact the development creates. Greater
impacts justify higher fees.1 Likewise, if development activity has no impacts, there can be no
impact fee. See B.A.M. Development, LLC v. Salt Lake County, 2008 UT 74, ¶12 (holding that
the exaction and the costs of assuaging the impact must be roughly equivalent); see also UTAH
CODE § 11-36a-102(8)(a) (the definition of impact fees tying it to the impact of the new
development), UTAH CODE § 11-36a-603(1) (requiring refund of impact fee where no impact has
resulted), UTAH CODE § 11-36a-402 (allowing offsets of impact fees where the developer
provides system improvements that reduce the need for the facilities). Moreover, an impact fee
that requires a developer to pay more than its share, i.e., to pay disproportionately for impacts it
did not create, is unconstitutional in violation of the takings clause. See generally Call v. City of
West Jordan, 614 P.2d 1257 (Utah, 1980).

The documents submitted indicate that the developer will detain all of its stormwater runoff on
site, and thus will not use the City’s system. How this will be done has not been provided. But
assuming that the developer will not use the City’s system, then the developer is having no
impact on the system and cannot be charged impact fees.


1
 An Impact Fee Analysis establishes the highest impact fee that can be charged to a development. UTAH CODE § 11-
36a-402(1)(b). But that does not mean that every development must and should pay this highest fee. The Impact Fee
Act contemplates in multiple places that adjustments should be made to the actual fee charged depending on factors
such as impacts, available funds, and provision of system improvements by a developer. See, e.g., UTAH CODE § 11-
36a-402, and UTAH CODE § 11-36a-304. Although charging the highest possible fee can be the baseline and the
norm, lowering the fee should occur when justified.
Advisory Opinion – Ryan Walz & American Fork City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 12, 2018         Page 3 of 5
The City argues that although all storm water will be detained on site, it may still charge impact
fees, primarily due to the fact that the City system must be prepared to accept the storm water in
the event that runoff from the property exceeds the detention capacity. Nothing has been
provided to indicate whether this is likely or why this would happen. Nevertheless, assuming it is
possible, whether the City will ever actually accept water from the development is speculative.
Thus, it cannot be said that the City can charge the full impact fee, or any impact fee, to a
development that will detain its water, just as it would charge a development with no detention
that would daily rely of the City’s storm sewer system.

Moreover, the documents do not indicate whether or not Marina Cove Phase 3 will even be
connected to the City’s storm sewer system. If there will be no connection, then the claim that
there will be no impacts is even stronger. Conversely, if there is a connection, then the claim that
there will be some impact on the system may have weight, though with 100% water detention on
site, the City still cannot charge the full impact fee. If impacts are reduced or eliminated, then the
impact fee must also be reduced or eliminated.

Finally, the argument that the City can charge impact fees to the development with no impacts in
order to retain the level of service is really another way of saying that the City wants this
development to pay the fee so that the developments that actually use the system can pay a
slightly smaller fee to maintain their service. The Impact Fee Act does not support this argument.
See UTAH CODE § 11-36a-302(1)(c). Accordingly, if the development is having no impact on the
City’s storm sewer system, the City cannot charge storm sewer impact fees to the development.

           II. The “Architect’s Stamp” Provision Applies Only to Residential Development

Mr. Walz argues that UTAH CODE § 10-6-160(4)(ii) exempts Marina Cove Phase 3 from plan
review because the plans were stamped by a licensed architect or engineer. That section of the
Utah Code reads:

           (4)(a) A city may not enforce a requirement to have a plan review if:
                  (i) the city does not complete the plan review within the time period
                  described in Subsection (3)(a) or (b); and
                  (ii) a licensed architect or structural engineer, or both when required by
                  law, stamps the plan.

The City argues that this language applies only to residential development, and thus not to
Marina Cove Phase 3.

Statutory interpretation begins with an analysis of the plain language of the statute. Carrier v.
Salt Lake County, 2004 UT 98 ¶30. The primary goal of interpretation is “to give effect to the
legislative intent, as evidenced by the plain language, in light of the purpose the statute was
meant to achieve.” Foutz v. City of South Jordan, 2004 UT 75, ¶11. If the plain language is
sufficiently clear, the analysis ends there. General Construction & Development, Inc. v. Peterson
Plumbing Supply, 2011 UT 1, ¶ 8. Further, it is presumed that the legislative body used each
word advisedly. Selman v. Box Elder County, 2011 UT 18, ¶18. “When the plain meaning of the
statute can be discerned from its language, no other interpretive tools are needed.” Id.

Advisory Opinion – Ryan Walz & American Fork City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 12, 2018         Page 4 of 5
Here, the meaning of this statute turns upon the simplest of words: and. Assuming that each word
was intentional and use advisedly, the word and at the end of subsection (i) plainly means that
both subsections (i) and (ii) must be satisfied in order to avoid a plan review. Subsection (ii)
concerns a stamp by an architect or engineer. However, subsection (i) refers to a failure to
complete review within “the time period described in Subsection (3)(a) or (b).” Those
subsections read as follows:

           (3)(a) A city shall complete a plan review of a construction project for a one to
                  two family dwelling or townhome by no later than 14 business days after
                  the day on which the plan is submitted to the city.
           (b)    A city shall complete a plan review of a construction project for a
                  residential structure built under the International Building Code, not
                  including a lodging establishment, by no later than 21 business days after
                  the day on which the plan is submitted to the city.

UTAH CODE § 10-6-160(3) (emphasis added). Both of these provisions clearly refer to and are
limited to forms of residential construction. These time frames do not refer to commercial
construction. Both subsections (i) and (ii) in section 160(4) must be satisfied. But subsection (i)
cannot be satisfied on a commercial development. The plain language indicates that the
legislative intent was to apply the “architect’s stamp” rule to residential development. Thus, to
the extent that Marina Cove Phase 3 is not residential development, then the “architect’s stamp”
provision does not apply.

                                                    CONCLUSION
Impact fees are always a function of impacts. Where its impact is reduced, the impact fee is
proportionally reduced. If the development of the Marina Cove Phase 3 will detain all of its
storm water, and thus will not use the City’s storm water system, it will not have a direct impact
on the City’s system. Where the impact is zero, the impact fee is also zero. Where it is minimal,
the impact fee is also minimal. Thus the City cannot charge full impact fees to the developer for
storm sewer.

Conversely, the tenets of statutory construction require that UTAH CODE § 10-6-160(4)(ii),
regarding the City’s ability to enforce a plan review, be read to apply only to residential
development. Since the Marina Cove Phase 3 is a commercial project, that statute does not apply.




Brent N. Bateman, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Ryan Walz & American Fork City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 12, 2018         Page 5 of 5
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the
date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees provisions, found in Utah Code § 13-43-206, are also designed to encourage
dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow circumstances, and even if
those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion regarding whether to award
them.
