                       Advisory Opinion 270
                                  Parties: Yard AF, LLC; American Fork
                                           Issued: June 6, 2023

                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                                 Impact Fees

The City may require an apartment developer to pay an additional nearly $150,000 in additional
impact fees that were miscalculated by the city and originally paid over a year ago. The city
ordinances require that correct impact fees “in effect” be collected and state law requires the city
to comply with their ordinances.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman                           (801) 530-6391
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          1-877-882-4662
                       PO Box 146702                                                    Fax: (801) 530-6338
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor               MARGARET W. BUSSE         JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                             Executive Director         Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor



                                                  ADVISORY OPINION

         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                Yard AF, LLC

         Local Government Entity:                      American Fork

         Applicant for land Use Approval:              Yard AF, LLC

         Type of Property:                             Multi-family residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                June 6, 2023

         Opinion Authored By:                          Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                        ISSUE

         May the city require an apartment developer to pay nearly $150,000 in additional impact fees that
         were miscalculated by the city and originally paid over a year ago?

                                            SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

         In this case, the impact fee itself has not been disputed. The parties agree that a lower impact fee
         was understood to be in effect and paid in full when the building permits were first issued. The
         service district later discovered the impact fee rate had been miscommunicated and is requiring
         the city to collect the correct impact fee nearly a year later.

         The city ordinance requires that correct impact fees “in effect” be collected and state law requires
         the city to comply with their ordinances. There is nothing in the Impact Fees Act or the Municipal
         Land Use, Development, and Management Act that prohibits the City from collecting deficiencies
         in an impact fee assessed and paid nearly one ago.

         It is worth considering, for both parties, that the Builder might nonetheless be able to challenge
         payment of the additional impact fees to the Service District if a court determines that some
         equitable remedy should apply.

                                                       REVIEW

         A Request for an Advisory Opinion may be filed at any time prior to the rendering of a final decision
         by a local land use appeal authority under the provisions of Title 13, Chapter 43, Section 205 of
         the Utah Code. An advisory opinion is meant to provide an early review, before any duty to exhaust
         administrative remedies, of significant land use questions so that those involved in a land use
         application or other specific land use disputes can have an independent review of an issue. It is
hoped that this can help the parties avoid litigation, resolve differences in a fair and neutral forum,
and understand the relevant law. The decision is not binding, but, as explained at the end of this
opinion, may have some effect on the long-term cost of resolving such issues in the courts.

A Request for an Advisory Opinion was received from Dan Hales (the property owner) on July 1,
2022. A copy of that request was sent via certified mail to Terilyn Lurker, City Recorder, City of
American Fork, 51 East Main Street, American Fork, Utah 84003.

                                              EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Brian Bird, Yard AF, LLC on September 1,
        2022.

     2. Letter from Cherylyn M. Egner, American Fork City Attorney, November 10, 2022.

                                             BACKGROUND

In the fall of 2021, Yard AF, LLC (the “Builder”) applied for building permits to American Fork City
(“the City”) for twelve residential apartment buildings. As is standard procedure, the City
calculated and collected impact fees in connection with issuing these building permits.

The City collected sewer impact fees for Timpanogos Special Services District (the “Sewer
District”) in accordance with what the City understood the rates to be. A few months later, in
January of 2022, the City received an impact fee reconciliation notice from the Sewer District. The
reconciliation identified a number of deficiencies in the payments from the City to Sewer District
for impact fees. The deficiencies arose because of a miscommunication between the City and
Sewer District regarding a change in applicable impact fee rates. Specifically, effective February
of 2021, the Sewer District fee had been raised from $1,100 per multi-family unit to $1,785.55 per
Equivalent Residential Unit regardless of whether the project was single family or multi-family.

Because the City had used the rate of $1,100 per unit, the City had invoiced the Builder incorrectly
and the Builder underpaid impact fees in the total amount of $145,918.80. The City notified the
Builder in March of 2022 of the miscalculated fee of the initial known deficiency of $48,639.60 and
an additional deficiency of $97,279.20 once the City determined the full amount in September of
2022. The City further put the Builder on notice that the City would not issue final inspections and
certificates of occupancy until the Builder paid the deficiencies in full.

The Builder notes they have sold the buildings. They point out that the City invoiced the Builder
for impact fees and the Builder paid the invoice in full. The Builder questions whether the City may
subject property owners to changes in perpetuity.

Accordingly, the Builder has requested this Advisory Opinion from the Property Rights
Ombudsman to determine whether the City has the right to demand payment of the nearly
$150,000 deficient balance as a condition of providing inspections and certificates of occupancy
when the Builder “paid in full” the impact fees the City initially requested almost one year prior.




Advisory Opinion – Yard AF / American Fork
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 6, 2023 Page 2 of 5
                                              ANALYSIS

The authority to issue Advisory Opinions is detailed in UTAH CODE § 13-43-205. Advisory Opinions
may only determine compliance with the Impact Fees Act as well as certain sections of the Land
Use Development and Management Acts. Our authority does not extend to answering equitable
or fairness questions. Only the courts may issue relief for an aggrieved party when standard legal
remedies are considered inadequate justice for the suffering party.

Accordingly, the focus of this Advisory Opinion is limited to whether the City has complied with the
express terms of (1) the Impact Fees Act, and (2) the Municipal Land Use Management Act.

I.         Impact Fees Act does not address deficiencies later required to be paid

All impact fees assessed in Utah must follow the requirements detailed in the Utah Impact Fees
Act1 (the “Impact Fees Act”), which authorizes political subdivisions to create and impose certain
impact fees on new development. The Impact Fees Act details purposes for which impact fees
may be collected, the procedure for their passage including notice and hearing requirements, as
well as steps for creating an impact fee facilities plan, how impact fees are to be calculated, how
proceeds may be spent, how refunds are handled, and how impact fees may be challenged.

As an initial matter, we note that the Builder is not asking whether the adjusted impact fee is legal.
The Builder has not questioned, for instance, whether the impact fee was properly passed, or
whether it will fund facilities appropriately included in the facilities plan. The Builder is asking
whether the impact fee, which was invoiced and paid in full, may be changed nearly a year later,
after the Apartments have been sold.

Unfortunately, the Impact Fees Act does not appear to anticipate this scenario and does not
address it or dictate a specific outcome. Therefore, the Impact Fees Act does not prohibit a City
from seeking impact fee deficiencies even a significant amount of time after originally assessed
and paid. In this case, the developer is still seeking certain certificates of occupancy related to
the project. As a practical matter, once the certificate of occupancy has been granted, and the
Builder no longer has an active land use permit with the City for this project, the opportunity to
collect the additional impact fee closes.

The Impact Fees Act outlines the procedure to challenge and/or appeal an impact fee directly to
the entity imposing it (i.e., the Service District)2 that may provide the Builder some relief in this
case, as we explain further below.

II.        Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act requires municipalities to
           apply the plain language of their ordinances

A building permit is a type of land use application, and is therefore governed by the Municipal
Land Use, Development, and Management Act (“LUDMA”).3 A municipality derives the power to
zone and regulate property largely from LUDMA, which details many requirements cities must
follow when approving and implementing permits. For instance, LUDMA includes a limitation that
review fees may not exceed costs incurred, and a requirement that Planning Commissions must



1 Chapter 11-36a of the UTAH CODE.
2 See UTAH CODE § 11-36a-703. Procedures for challenging an impact fee
3 Chapter 10-9a of the UTAH CODE.


Advisory Opinion – Yard AF / American Fork
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 6, 2023 Page 3 of 5
be in place before a city may enact zoning. Many of the parameters articulated are intended to
protect property owners and the rights of land use applicants.

LUDMA outlines what a city may require of those receiving a building permit, including
requirements expressed in local ordinances. UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1) reads:

      (g) A municipality may not impose on a holder of an issued land use permit . . . a requirement
          that is not expressed:
              (i) in this chapter;
              (ii) on the subdivision plat;
              (iii) in a document on which the land use permit or subdivision plat is based;
              (iv) in the written record evidencing approval of the land use permit or subdivision plat;
              (v) in this chapter; or
              (vi) in a municipal ordinance.

(Emphasis added.)

Accordingly, American Fork Municipal Code Chapter 13.29 clearly requires that impact fees
currently in effect must be paid as a requirement for receiving a building permit:

           “The payment of any such impact fees, as calculated by TSSD and then currently in effect,
           shall be – and is – deemed a condition of: (A) The issuance of a building permit by the city
           of American Fork where connection to the city’s sewage collection system is desired or
           required.”4

The City ordinance plainly requires the payment of impact fees “then currently in effect.” It is
extremely unfortunate that the City misunderstood what those fees were, but the ordinance
requires the correct, adopted, higher rates be charged.

Furthermore, UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(2) requires that the City comply with its own ordinances.
That section reads “A municipality is bound by the terms and standards of applicable land use
regulations and shall comply with the mandatory provisions of those regulations.” The City,
therefore, does not have the legal leeway to circumvent its ordinance that requires the correct
impact fee be charged.

Therefore, payment of impact fees in accordance with the impact fee schedule currently in effect
by the Sewer District is properly a condition of building permit approval. There is nothing in
LUDMA nor this section of City code to suggest that there is a time limit on when the impact fee
must be properly calculated and assessed. Again, as a practical matter, once the certificate of
occupancy has been granted, the opportunity to impose the higher impact fee as a condition of
land use application approval, as provided in UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1) above, closes.

We note that LUDMA generally protects property owners and land use applicants from surprise
charges and changes to the rules midstream.5 LUDMA requires transparency and the ability of an
applicant to be able to figure out what is required of them at the outset of the project. However,


4
    American Fork Municipal Code Chapter 13.29.030.
5 See, e.g., UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509(1)(g) cited in this Advisory Opinion stating that only those requirements

clearly stipulated at the time the application is made may be imposed, similarly UTAH CODE § 10-9a-
509(1)(h) stipulating that a certificate of occupancy may not be withheld for failure to comply with a
requirement not expressed in the ordinances or the building permit.

Advisory Opinion – Yard AF / American Fork
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 6, 2023 Page 4 of 5
there is not a specific requirement that invoices paid cannot later be corrected nearly a year later
as a condition of approval of a Certificate of Occupancy.6

Nevertheless, outside of these two statutory schemes, courts have inherent “equitable” powers to
grant certain relief to parties when fairness demands such a result.7 Because the Builder relied
upon the City imposing the original, lower impact fee, and paid that invoice in full, and has now
sold the buildings, a court may find that the higher fee impact fee may not now be assessed
because it is not equitable or fair. However, as equitable solutions are prescribed by courts and
are not legal remedies, this is not within our authority to consider.8

In summary, while we find no legal remedy available in LUDMA, a court could determine whether
the Builder may nonetheless be able to challenge the impact fee and receive equitable relief from
paying the additional amount of the corrected fee

                                               CONCLUSION

In this case, the impact fee itself has not been disputed. The parties agree that a lower impact fee
was understood to be in effect and paid in full when the building permits were first issued. The
service district later discovered the impact fee rate had been miscommunicated and is requiring
the city to collect the correct impact fee nearly a year later.

The Impact Fees Act and the Municipal Land Use Management Act do not prohibit the city from
collecting deficiencies in an impact fee assessed and paid nearly one ago. Furthermore, the city
ordinance requires that correct impact fees “in effect” be collected and state law requires the city
to comply with its ordinances. We note that as a practical matter, once the certificate of occupancy
has been granted, the opportunity to impose the higher impact fee as a condition of land use
application approval closes.

The Builder might nonetheless be able to challenge the impact fee to the Service District or pursue
equitable remedies available through district court, as applicable.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




6 Consider also that a land use authority may not unreasonably withhold a Certificate of Occupancy where

an “applicant has met all the requirements essential for the public health, public safety, and general welfare
of the occupants. . . “ UTAH CODE 10+9A-509(1)(i). Arguably, failure to pay an accurate amount for an impact
fee would not be essential for public health, safety, and welfare of the occupants and the Certificate of
Occupancy may not be withheld for that reason.
7 See, Hughes v. Cafferty, 2004 UT 22, ¶ 21.
8 The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman was created by UTAH CODE § 13-43, which outlines the

authority and responsibilities.

Advisory Opinion – Yard AF / American Fork
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 6, 2023 Page 5 of 5
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of
the State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at
based on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and
may or may not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the
facts and circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her
own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect
or advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is
litigated on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory
opinion, the substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from
the date of the delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution.
Additionally, a civil penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing
party—if either a land use applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally
violated the law governing that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial
review of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in § 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are also
designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
