                       Advisory Opinion 300
                              Parties: Edge Homes of Utah, LLC, Lehi City
                                       Issued: December 13, 2024


                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                     Exactions on Development
                               Compliance with Land Use Regulations
                               Requirements Imposed On Development



The city may lawfully require a developer to pay for publicly owned and managed
fiber optic conduit as a condition of approval of a residential subdivision
development where the subdivision will be serviced by internet providers using their
own private facilities.
The city-wide conduit system not only supports the city’s fiber optic network but also
provides space for any internet providers to install their own fiber optic cables. Its
primary purpose is to facilitate the monitoring of parks, roads, water lines,
streetlights, facilitate emergency services, snow removal, and to improve mapping
capabilities. The city-wide conduit system is materially different from privately
provided high-speed internet services and the requirement to pay the conduit
charge is within the government’s authority as it serves a valid public purpose.
Additionally, the charge constitutes a lawful exaction being roughly proportionate to
the development’s impact.


                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                           (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                        1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor               MARGARET W. BUSSE         JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                             Executive Director         Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION

         Advisory Opinion Requested by:                Paxton R. Guymon, Edge Homes of Utah, LLC

         Local Government Entity:                      Lehi City

         Property Owner:                               Edge Homes of Utah, LLC

         Type of Property:                             Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                December 13, 2024

         Opinion Authored By:                          Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                        Issue

         May the city lawfully require a developer to pay for publicly owned and managed fiber optic
         conduit as a condition of approval of a residential subdivision development where the subdivision
         will be serviced by internet providers using their own private facilities?

                                          Summary of Advisory Opinion

         The developer is constructing a residential subdivision and plans to provide high-speed internet
         services by contracting with private internet providers. As part of the city's approval process, the
         city is requiring developer to pay a materials charge to cover the installation of conduit and boxes
         within the subdivision. The city asserts these components are necessary for connecting the
         subdivision to the city’s existing city-wide conduit system.

         The city-wide conduit system not only supports the city’s fiber optic network but also provides
         space for any internet provider to install their own fiber optic cables. Its primary purpose is to
         facilitate the monitoring of parks, roads, water lines, streetlights, facilitate emergency services,
         snow removal, and to improve mapping capabilities. Additionally, the system allows private
         internet providers, including those chosen by the developer, to place their fiber optic cables within
         the conduit. The developer objects to paying for connections to the public system because their
         contracted internet providers will install and use their own private conduit.

         We find that the city-wide conduit system materially differs from privately provided high-speed
         internet services. The requirement to pay the conduit charge is within the government’s authority
         as it serves a valid public purpose. Additionally, the charge constitutes a lawful exaction being
roughly proportionate to the development’s impact where the charge pays only for that
infrastructure directly serving the proposed subdivision.

Furthermore, we conclude that the conduit charge is not an impact fee governed by the Impact
Fees Act, as it is intended solely for the installation and connection of site-specific improvements
to service the development. The conduit charge does not fund any system-wide improvements
benefitting the community at large. Therefore, the conduit fee is not subject to the provisions of
the Impact Fees Act.

While the developer is not required to use the City’s public conduit system and may nevertheless
opt to independently install its own private fiber optic conduit, the city may still lawfully require
the developer to pay the material charge to connect the development to the publicly owned and
managed conduit infrastructure as a condition of subdivision approval.

                                              Evidence

The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:
       1. Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Paxton R. Guymon, Esq. on January 31,
          2024.
           2. Request to place matter on hold, February 9, 2024.
           3. Submittal from Paxton R. Guymon, Esq. on August 12, 2024.
           4. Submittal from Robert Fuller, Esq. on behalf of Lehi City on August 22, 2024.

                                            Background
Edge Homes (Developer) is seeking to develop a residential community on property it owns in
Lehi City (City). The project is known as “River Point Phase I” (Subdivision). Consistent with its
standard practice, Developer intends to develop and install the subdivision improvements (a.k.a.
the “horizontal improvements”) before recording the final plat. The City, however, will not allow
the development to proceed with construction of the subdivision improvements unless and until
certain requirements are satisfied. The requirements include, among other things, required
payment of a “fiber material charge” (Conduit Charge) listed in an invoice from Lehi City Power
in the amount of $16,786.

For nearly 30 years, the City has been installing a city-wide network of conduit for fiber optic
cable. This conduit houses not only the City’s telecommunications network, which provides a
variety of governmental services, but also fiber of other telecommunication providers. According
to the City, the system provides: (1) wi-fi, sound monitoring and cameras in City parks, trails, and
other public spaces, including within subdivisions, for security purposes, including remote locking
capabilities; (2) connection to and monitoring of city water sites, and water infrastructure sub-
sections; (3) enhancements through fiber connection on school properties; (4) 5G connections to
fiber for cell towers on city streetlights; (5) wi-fi connections to emergency services during city-
wide emergency events; (6) stop light preemption to change lights for emergency services
personnel; (7) live feeds at intersections tied into UDOT’s fiber system; (8) real time snow
monitoring of snow removal and road deterioration, including within the proposed Subdivision;
Advisory Opinion – Edge Homes / Lehi City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 13, 2024 Page 2 of 10
(9) enhanced GIS mapping and LIDAR capabilities; and (10) internet connection to inhabitants
who would otherwise be in a dead zone or areas entirely without fiber connections.

The city has partnered with several internet service providers that are permitted to use its conduits.
However, access to the conduits is open to other providers as well, and any internet service
provider may apply to place fiber optic cables within the city's infrastructure, including those the
Developer contracts with.

The City has clarified that the Conduit Charge pays only for the conduit itself—the protective tube
or channel that houses fiber optic cables and associated boxes. The City is not providing or
charging for internet service, nor does the Conduit Charge include any installation of actual fiber
cable within the conduit for such a purpose.

The Developer challenges the necessity of the Conduit Charge, as the Developer contracts directly
with private companies to provide internet services to the communities the Developer builds. The
Developer coordinates with these chosen providers to provide internet service connections to the
new homes so that high speed internet will be “live” as soon as possible after buyers move in. The
Developer informs the service providers when trenches will be open so they can install their own
conduit and equipment during the development process.

While the Developer recognizes the City’s authority to charge developers for costs of providing
improvements for traditional utilities such as water, power, and sanitary sewer services, the
Developer argues that providing high-speed internet services is not a necessary utility service for
life/safety/habitability, and believes that charging for conduit for the City’s own fiber optic system
amounts to an unlawful exaction, maintaining that the Subdivision doesn’t create the impact or
need for a city-owned fiber optic system, especially when the Developer arranges for internet and
telecom services to be installed and provided through their own private contracts.

The Developer contends that the Conduit Fee charge is unlawful for two reasons:

     1. Unlawful Exaction. The Developer maintains that the charge is an unlawful exaction
        under Utah Code Section 10-9a-508(1) and applicable case law because (i) there is not an
        essential link between a legitimate governmental interest and the requirement for
        developers to pay for Conduit Fee, and (ii) the requirement/exaction is not roughly
        proportionate in nature or extent to the impact of the proposed Subdivision.

     2. Unlawful Impact Fee. The Developer also maintains that the Conduit Charge is an
        unlawful impact fee. Developer asserts that although the City chooses not to refer to the
        Conduit Fee as an “impact fee,” the charge clearly meets the definition of an impact fee
        under Utah Code Section 11-36a-102. Here, the Conduit Fee does not comply with the
        statutory requirements for imposing a lawful impact fee under Utah’s Impact Fees Act.

In contrast, the City asserts that the Developer has misunderstood the scope of the Conduit Charge.
The City maintains that it does not provide internet services and does not charge developers for
any fiber installed within the conduit or any other component of the City’s telecommunications
network more generally. Additionally, any provider including the private companies contracted by
the Developer, may apply to install the necessary fiber within the protective conduit.

Advisory Opinion – Edge Homes / Lehi City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 13, 2024 Page 3 of 10
The Developer and the City have been unable to resolve this dispute. Accordingly, the Developer
has requested this Advisory Opinion to determine whether the City may lawfully require the
Conduit Charge be paid as a condition of approval of residential development where the City’s
fiber optic system is not necessary to provide high-speed internet to the Subdivision.

                                                         Analysis

This dispute centers on the two interpretations of what the Conduit Charge and the City-wide
conduit system provide. The Developer maintains that the Subdivision will be served by private
contracts with high-speed internet service vendors which the Developer establishes directly, thus
the Subdivision will have no impact on, and no need for, the City-wide conduit system.

Conversely, the City maintains that the Conduit Charge pays for conduit and boxes – protective
tubes or channels and connection points in which fiber may be installed, allowing the Subdivision
to connect to an existing City-wide system. While one possible use of the conduit is for a private
internet-service provider to install fiber serving the Subdivision (including those the Developer
privately contracts with) the purpose of the conduit system overall is to allow for the various
services provided by the City’s telecommunication network, such as monitoring of parks, roads,
water lines, enhance streetlight and emergency vehicle service, snow and snow removal
monitoring, and to enhance mapping capabilities. The City further maintains that, while the public
conduit is open and capable of housing networks from different providers, residents will have the
flexibility to switch providers or add telecommunications services in the future without needing to
dig up their yards to install new conduit for a different provider.

With those opposing interpretations in mind, we will analyze the Developer’s two contentions,
first, that the Conduit Charge is an unlawful exaction, and second, that it is an unlawful impact
fee.

     I.          The Conduit Charge is a lawful exaction because an essential link exists between
                 a legitimate governmental interest and each exaction; and, each exaction is
                 roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the proposed
                 development.

The Developer first argues that the Conduit Charge is an unlawful exaction under Utah Code
Section 10-9a-508(1) and applicable case law because (i) there is no essential link between a
legitimate governmental interest and the requirement for developers to pay for Fiber Material, and
(ii) the requirement/exaction is not roughly proportionate in nature or extent to the impact of the
proposed Subdivision.

                                        A. Legal Standard for Development Exactions

The City’s requirement that the Developer pay the Conduit Charge is a development exaction.
“Development exactions may be defined as contributions to a governmental entity imposed as a
condition precedent to approving the developer's project.” Salt Lake Cty. v. Bd. of Educ. of Granite
Sch. Dist., 808 P.2d 1056, 1058 (Utah Sup.Ct. 1991). Exactions arise from the principle that
development causes impacts to a community. To address and offset these impacts, the community
may require dedication of land or construction of public resources such as roadways, sidewalks,
Advisory Opinion – Edge Homes / Lehi City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 13, 2024 Page 4 of 10
and power distribution systems. Such mandatory dedications implicate the Takings Clause of the
U.S. Constitution and Article I Section 22 of the Utah Constitution, which both protect private
property from governmental taking without just compensation.

An exaction is valid and proportionate if it is related to a legitimate government purpose and only
offsets the costs of a development’s impact, and no more. An excessive exaction requires a property
owner to pay for impacts beyond his own. Banberry Development Corporation v. South Jordan
City, 631 P.2d 899, 903 (Utah 1981). A principal objective of the test is to “bar Government from
forcing some people alone to bear public burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne
by the public as a whole.” Armstrong v. United States, 364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960).

These principles governing exactions are derived from the U.S. Supreme Court’s landmark
decisions in Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n and Dolan v. City of Tigard which the Utah
Legislature has distilled and codified in UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1). See Nollan v. California
Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S. 374 (1994). This
analysis has been termed the “rough proportionality test,” and provides:

           A municipality may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in
           a land use application . . ., if:

           (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
               exaction; and,
           (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact
               of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1). If a proposed exaction satisfies this test, and is otherwise legal, it is
valid. If the exaction fails the test, it violates protections guaranteed by the Takings Clauses of the
Utah and U.S. Constitutions and is illegal. Call v. West Jordan, 614 P.2d 1257, 1259 (Utah 1980).

                        B. Essential link exists between legitimate government interest and
                                        requirement to pay Conduit Charge.

The first part of rough proportionality test codified at UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1) requires an
essential link between a legitimate governmental interest and the exaction imposed. The Developer
maintains that providing high-speed internet services is not a necessary utility service for
life/safety/habitability. They argue that “[u]nlike providing power, water, fire protection, roads,
stormwater systems, and other municipal services that are essential to the protection of life, health,
and safety, high-speed internet services are not essential. Historically, municipalities have wisely
refrained from trying to compete with the private sector by becoming internet service providers.”
Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Paxton R. Guymon, Esq. on January 31, 2024.
Furthermore, the Developer maintains that the City is requiring new development to pay for fiber
materials that the City allows certain private internet service providers to use on a retail basis, in
essence subsidizing these internet providers. Therefore, the Developer argues, the exaction falls
outside any legitimate governmental interest.

We find that the City is not providing internet service to the subdivision, nor compelling the
Developer to fund such service. The conduit simply provides a location for fiber cable to be
Advisory Opinion – Edge Homes / Lehi City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 13, 2024 Page 5 of 10
located, which could include the Developer’s chosen internet providers should they desire to use
it. More than this, however, the City maintains that the City-wide conduit system allows for
additional municipal services including monitoring of parks, roads, water lines, improves
streetlight and emergency vehicle service, snow and snow removal monitoring, and enhances
mapping capabilities.

This prong of the rough proportionality test seems to address the core of the dispute. While not
explicitly stated, the arguments revolve around the central question of whether the city may require
infrastructure that the Developer doesn’t recognize as necessary or useful to Subdivision residents.
The Developer argues that a City is authorized to provide “essential” municipal services, which in
their view does not include high-speed internet service and implies that cities would lack authority
to provide such service, or at least have “wisely refrained” from competing with private internet
providers. Legal precedent does not uphold this limited interpretation.

We begin by looking to the US Supreme Court for guidance, which affirms that cities “have
substantial authority to regulate land use,” and may place conditions that “further a ‘legitimate
police-power purpose…,’” on land use permits provided it is not leveraging its permitting
monopoly to exact private property without paying for it. Sheetz v. Cnty, of El Dorado, 601 U.S.
267 (2024). See also, Call v. City of West Jordan, 606 P.2d 217 (Utah 1979) (finding that cities
have authority to preserve the health, safety, and general welfare which includes authority to
impose reasonable fees and conditions on land use and development); Larson v. Pleasant Grove
City, 2023 UT 2 (holding that Utah courts “generally give latitude to local governments in creating
solutions to problems, especially in meeting the challenges and needs caused by accelerated urban
growth.”)

The Utah Supreme Court recently rejected arguments that Utah statutes “purport[] to create an
exhaustive list of the utilities a city is allowed to establish.” Id. at ¶ 24, and instead reiterated that
the legislature, through what is known as the “General Welfare Statute” found at Utah Code section
10-8-84(1), “has conferred upon cities and counties the authority to enact all necessary measures
to promote the general health, safety, morals, and welfare of their citizens,” and provides an
“independent source of power to act for the general welfare . . . apart from, and in addition to,
specific grants of authority.” Id. at ¶¶ 16-17 (citations omitted).

Furthermore, Utah’s Land Use Development and Management Act provides that to “accomplish
the purposes of this chapter, a municipality may enact all ordinances, resolutions, and rules . . .
that the municipality considers necessary or appropriate for the use and development of land within
the municipality . . . governing: uses, density, open spaces, structures, buildings, energy efficiency,
light and air, air quality, transportation and public or alternative transportation, infrastructure,
street and building orientation, width requirements; public facilities fundamental fairness in land
use regulation; and considerations of surrounding land uses to balance the foregoing purposes with
a landowner’s private property interests and associated statutory and constitutional protections.”
UTAH CODE § 10-9a-102(2) (emphasis added).

The City asserts that the City-wide conduit system is not a substitute for privately provided high-
speed internet. It supports, for instance, the monitoring of public spaces, including subdivisions,
for security; monitoring of city water infrastructure; fiber enhancements on school properties; 5G
connections for cell towers on streetlights and emergency services; wi-fi during citywide events;

Advisory Opinion – Edge Homes / Lehi City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 13, 2024 Page 6 of 10
stoplight preemption and live intersection feeds; real-time snow road condition tracking; enhanced
GIS mapping capabilities; and internet access in previously underserved areas. The City also
maintains that by providing a publicly available conduit system, future changes in services to the
subdivision may be made without the need for repeated invasion into lot improvements and
landscaping by tearing up yards each time to lay new facilities.

We are persuaded that the purpose and anticipated benefits of the conduit system are materially
different from privately provided high-speed internet and fall within the City’s statutory authority
to enact ordinances that further the legitimate police-power purpose of providing infrastructure
and public facilities and conclude that the City has the authority and discretion in deciding which
services it will offer. This authority and discretion include a city-wide conduit network that
provides various municipal services but is also open to other private users and related services.

For these reasons, and because the conduit connections provide “some demonstrable benefit” to
the subdivision, see Call v. W. Jordan, 614 P.2d 1257, 1259 (Utah 1980), we find that an essential
link exists between legitimate government interest and the conduit infrastructure which is paid for
by the Conduit Charge.

                          C. Conduit Charge is roughly proportional in nature and extent
                                        to the impact of the Subdivision.

The next step in the rough proportionality test requires that “each exaction is roughly
proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the proposed development.” UTAH CODE
§10-9a-508(1)(b).

The nature aspect of the rough proportionality test requires that an exaction provide a solution to
a problem the proposed development presents. The Developer is building a residential subdivision.
Whereas the City has chosen to provide the service of a city-wide connected public conduit system,
City ordinances require that a Conduit Charge be paid as part of that development to connect the
Subdivision with the City-wide fiber conduit system.

Additionally, the exaction must meet the extent aspect of the rough proportionality test. The City
must “compare the government’s cost of alleviating the development’s impact on infrastructure
with the cost to [the developer] of the exaction.” B.A.M. Dev., L.L.C. v. Salt Lake County, 2012
UT 26, ¶5, 282 P.3d 41. In other words, the Conduit Charge may only offset the City’s cost to
provide the Subdivision with the stated service.

The Developer maintains that the charge is not proportionate in nature or extent to the impact of
the proposed development. The Developer intends to enter contracts with its own preferred internet
service providers to provide high-speed internet service to the residents of the Subdivision. The
Developer chooses reputable, experienced providers who coordinate their internet service
connections to the new homes so that high speed internet will be “live” as soon as possible after
buyers move into their new homes. The Developer informs the service providers when trenches
will be open so they can install their own conduit and equipment during the development process.
Thus, the Developer ensures that the Subdivision residents will be served by high-speed internet
in an efficient manner.


Advisory Opinion – Edge Homes / Lehi City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 13, 2024 Page 7 of 10
Consequently, the Developer argues, the Subdivision does not need the City’s internet services
program, nor does the Subdivision create any impacts on the City’s internet service. The Developer
claims that there is no need whatsoever for the City to install any conduit in or for this Subdivision.

This argument does not take into account the stated purpose of the public conduit system. The City
maintains that the “need for the conduit to connect [the Subdivision] to the City’s
telecommunications system so those subdivision residents can have the benefits of the City’s
public system beyond those provided by Comcast or another private provider selected by [the
Developer].” Submittal from Robert Fuller, Esq. on behalf of Lehi City on August 22, 2024. These
benefits go beyond simply providing internet services, which is the only service apparently
provided by the Developer’s vendors. “[The Developer’s] assertion that ‘there is no need’ to
connect its developments to the City’s public system because it has contracted with private
providers relies on an apples to oranges comparison of the services provided” by the private
vendors and with the City’s system and between the public and private nature of the two systems.
Id.

We are persuaded that the City-wide conduit system provides benefits materially different than
privately provided high-speed internet service. Whereas it is within the City’s authority to require
a City-wide conduit system, this step in the analysis requires us only to analyze whether the
$16,786 in Conduit Charge pays for an impact beyond that of the Subdivision.

The City maintains that the Conduit Charge is “solely for the conduit necessary to connect the new
subdivision to the City’s public system, no more and no less.” Id. The charge covers the cost of the
conduit and the boxes for this public infrastructure. Private high speed internet providers can install
their cables within this public conduit. The need for connecting conduit is created by the new
Subdivision and does not serve any other purpose. Therefore, the Conduit Charge, in paying for
only that infrastructure necessary to connect the Subdivision to the City-wide public system, the
charge is proportionate in both nature and extent.

Because the Conduit Charge pays only for infrastructure within the proposed Subdivision, the
Charge is proportionate in both nature and extent. The Conduit Charge solves a problem created
by the Subdivision. The City has established a standard requiring a City-wide conduit system. The
Conduit Charge provides the infrastructure to connect the Subdivision to this City-wide system.

Because the Conduit Charge passes both prongs of the rough proportionality test, we find that it is
a legal exaction.

     II.         Because the Conduit Charge provides only project improvements, and not system
                 improvements, it is not considered an impact fee and not subject to the
                 requirements of the Impact Fees Act.

The Developer next questions whether the Conduit Fee is an unlawful impact fee. In Utah, impact
fees are governed by the Impact Fees Act, whether they are properly labeled as such or not, and
may only be imposed consistent with the requirements in the Act.

Utah law defines an impact fee as “a payment of money imposed upon new development activity
as a condition of development approval to mitigate the impact of new development on public

Advisory Opinion – Edge Homes / Lehi City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 13, 2024 Page 8 of 10
infrastructure” but does excludes “a tax, a special assessment, a building permit fee, a hookup fee,
a fee for project improvements, or other reasonable permit or application fee.” UTAH CODE § 11-
36a-102(9).

The Developer claims that the Conduit Charge meets the definition of an impact fee because the
City required the Developer to pay the charge before it could even schedule a preconstruction
meeting, obtain approved construction plans, or proceed with development of the Subdivision
improvements before recording the final plat. Therefore, the Developer argues, the Conduit Charge
meets the definition of “a payment of money imposed upon new development activity as a
condition of development approval to mitigate the impact of new development on public
infrastructure” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(9)(a).

On the other hand, the City claims that the Conduit Charge falls under the definition’s express
exclusions because the charges cover the cost of providing conduit and boxes to serve only the
Subdivision and its connection to the City’s system and is therefore more appropriately defined as
a “hookup fee” or else “a fee for project improvements . . .” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(9)(b).

The Act defines “Project improvements” as “site improvements and facilities that are: (i) planned
and designed to provide service for development resulting from a development activity; (ii)
necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or users of the development resulting from
a development activity; and (iii) not identified or reimbursed as a system improvement.” UTAH
CODE §11-36a-102(15).

“System improvements” on the other hand, are defined as “(i) existing public facilities that are:
(A) identified in the impact fee analysis . . . and (B) designed to provide services to service areas
within the community at large; and (ii) future public facilities identified in the impact fee analysis
. . . that are intended to provide services to service areas within the community at large. (b) ‘System
improvements’ does not mean project improvements.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(22).

Whether the Conduit Charge is an impact fee, therefore, is determined by whether the charge is
used for infrastructure serving only the Subdivision or the community at large. The Developer
maintains that Subdivision residents will be served by private providers of high-speed internet and
will not need the City-wide conduit infrastructure – therefore, it cannot be a “project improvement”
because the project will not be served. The City maintains that the Conduit Charge covers the cost
of conduit and boxes solely serving the Subdivision, and therefore qualifies as a “project
improvement.”

We conclude that the Conduit Charge will be used solely to provide conduit and box infrastructure
for the Subdivision to connect the same to the City-wide system. The Developer and future
residents may or may not choose to use the facilities for high-speed internet service. The City will
use the City-wide system to monitor parks, roads, water lines, enhance streetlight and emergency
vehicle service, snow and snow removal monitoring, and enhance mapping capabilities. The
Conduit Charge funds a project improvement, not a system improvement, and therefore, is not an
impact fee. Accordingly, the Conduit Fee is not subject to the requirements of the Impact Fees Act.




Advisory Opinion – Edge Homes / Lehi City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 13, 2024 Page 9 of 10
                                            Conclusion

The Conduit Charge will be used to provide conduit and box infrastructure to the Subdivision. This
will allow the Subdivision to connect to the City-wide conduit system which is used to monitor
parks, roads, water lines, enhance streetlight and emergency vehicle service, snow and snow
removal monitoring, and enhance mapping capabilities.

We are persuaded that the conduit system is materially different than service provided by a private
high-speed internet provider and that the anticipated benefits of the conduit system fall within the
City’s statutory authority to enact ordinances necessary for infrastructure and public facilities.
Therefore, we find that an essential link exists between legitimate government interest and the
conduit infrastructure which is paid for by the Conduit Charge.

Because the Conduit Charge pays only for fiber conduit infrastructure within the proposed
Subdivision, the fee is proportionate in both nature and extent. The Conduit Charge solves a
problem created by the Subdivision. The City has established a standard requiring a City-wide
conduit system. The Conduit Charge provides the infrastructure to connect the Subdivision to this
City-wide system. Because the Conduit Charge passes both prongs of the rough proportionality
test, we find that it is a legal exaction.

Additionally, the Conduit Charge funds a project improvement, not a system improvement, and
therefore, is not an impact fee. Accordingly, the Conduit Fee is not subject to the requirements of
the Impact Fees Act.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Edge Homes / Lehi City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
December 13, 2024 Page 10 of 10
NOTE:
This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not constitute
legal advice and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of Utah
or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a summary
review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter and may or may not reflect the
opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and circumstances are
different or where the relevant law may have changed.
While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.
An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.
Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.
The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in § 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are also
designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
