                       Advisory Opinion 301
                              Parties: A. Jacob Andersen / Rockville Town
                                          Issued: January 28, 2025


                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                Compliance with Land Use Regulations
                                 Entitlement to Application Approval


The Town Planning Commission’s decision that the Andersen Parcel is a legal
substandard lot under the Town Code is supported by substantial evidence in the
record and is therefore lawful and correct.

Additionally, substantial evidence exists to support a conclusion that Eagle Crags
Road provides public frontage to the Andersen Parcel, for purposes of development
approval.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                          (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                       1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                            www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor               MARGARET W. BUSSE         JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                             Executive Director         Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION


         Advisory Opinion Requested By:                Jacob Andersen & Town of Rockville

         Local Government Entity:                      Rockville Town

         Applicant for Land Use Approval:              Jacob Andersen

         Type of Property:                             Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                January 28, 2025

         Opinion Authored By:                          Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                        ISSUE

              1. Is the subject parcel a legally existing lot eligible for permit approval of a single-family
                 residence?
              2. Is there evidence to support a conclusion that the road adjacent to the subject parcel
                 provides frontage on a public road for purposes of development approval?

                                          SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

         The Rockville Town Planning Commission’s decision that the Andersen Parcel is a legal
         substandard lot under the Town Code is supported by substantial evidence in the record and is
         therefore lawful and correct.

         Additionally, substantial evidence exists to support a conclusion that Eagle Crags Road provides
         public frontage to the Andersen Parcel, for purposes of development approval.

                                                      EVIDENCE

         The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
         completing this Advisory Opinion:

               1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Mayor Pam Leach on behalf of Rockville
                  Town, received April 26, 2024.
       2. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by A. Jacob Andersen on behalf of Zion
          Holdings, received May 3, 2024.
       3. Various documents submitted by both requesting parties, and others, received from
          approximately May 2024 to July 2024.

                                          BACKGROUND

Jacob Andersen, through Zion Holdings LLC, owns a parcel in Rockville Town (Town) limits
referred to as South Mesa Parcel R-1308-D (Andersen Parcel). Mr. Andersen has requested a
building permit from the Town to construct a single-family residence on the Andersen Parcel. The
property is currently located in the OS-20 Open Space Zone. Current OS-20 Zone regulations
allow a single-family dwelling as a permitted use, but only on properties at least 20 acres in size
with at least 500 feet of frontage along a public road. The Andersen Parcel contains 1.39 acres.
Street frontage is presently undetermined, for reasons discussed below. The Andersen Parcel is one
of several metes and bounds described parcels located within Town limits in an area referred to as
South Mesa. It has been represented to this Office that a good deal of uncertainty and disagreement
surround how the parcels in this area were originally created, and their legal status and eligibility
for development approvals.

In an April 9, 2024 meeting, the Rockville Town Planning Commission reviewed Mr. Andersen’s
building permit application. According to the meeting minutes, the Commission first discussed
concerns related to the legality of the property—specifically whether the parcel qualified as a legal
substandard lot entitled to development approval despite the fact the property is smaller than the
minimum lot sized allowed under the current OS-20 zoning designation. The Rockville Town Code
(Town Code) provides that “[any] lot legally held at the passage of this Code which is below the
square footage requirement or width for the zone in which it is located may be built on provided it
is located in a zone that permits the desired use.” Rockville Town Code § 9.1.5.

Mr. Andersen, in the meeting, asserted that the parcels in South Mesa were divided and created
prior to the incorporation of Rockville Town in 1987 and before Washington County—which
would have had land use authority over the Andersen Parcel at the time—had any ordinances
governing the subdivision of land. It appears undisputed that the South Mesa parcels, generally,
were created in the late 1950s and early 1960s. The Andersen Parcel, specifically, appears to have
been created by deed in April 1962.

Mr. Andersen further asserted that since Washington County, at the time, did not have a subdivision
ordinance, there was no requirement or method for subdividing lots, and therefore the method
used, by warranty deed, created a legal and developable lot, and that the Andersen Parcel continues
today as a legal substandard lot eligible for development approval, despite not meeting the current
OS-20 Zoning lot size requirement.

Mr. Andersen’s presentation led to an involved discussion among Planning Commission members
about the legal status of the lot and whether the road that leads to it, known as Eagle Crags Road,
provides public frontage as required by the local code. This included a discussion with the town’s
local administrative advisor.


Advisory Opinion – Andersen / Rockville
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 28, 2025 Page 2 of 7
Ultimately, the Planning Commission, by vote of 3-2, approved the application, on the basis that
the Andersen Parcel is a legal substandard lot under the Town Code, and therefore eligible for
development approval.

The Commission conditioned this approval on the applicant meeting all other relevant and
applicable codes and ordinances and conforming with any conditions imposed by the Fire Marshal
for access, health, and safety. The Commission also conditioned its approval on the Town Council
making a finding that the road adjacent to the Andersen Parcel—Eagle Crags Road—is a public
road providing frontage in compliance with Rockville Town Code 9.1.4, which states that every
lot “shall have frontage upon a dedicated or publicly-approved street or upon a private street or
right-of-way approved by the Town before a building permit may be issued.”1

Some members of the Planning Commission felt the question of whether Eagle Crags Road is a
public road providing frontage for the Andersen Parcel is unsettled. These individuals expressed
they did not feel they were in a position, or possessed expertise, to make such a finding. The Town
has welcomed an opinion from this Office regarding the frontage question and the legal status of
Mr. Andersen’s lot. See Appeal Letter from Matthew D. Ekins, Attorney for Rockville Town, dated
June 10, 2024.

Both Mr. Andersen and the Town have approached this Office requesting an advisory opinion
regarding the issues described above. While there are several outstanding questions related to the
parcels in South Mesa, the Office will attempt to answer only two of them, and only as they relate
specifically to the Andersen Parcel: (1) whether Mr. Andersen’s parcel is a legal substandard lot
eligible for development approval from the Town (assuming the application can meet other
applicable Town Codes), and (2) whether Eagle Crags Road provides public street frontage for the
Andersen Parcel, for purposes of development approval under applicable codes and ordinances.

                                                     ANALYSIS

I.         Substantial Evidence Exists to Support the Commission’s Finding that the Andersen
           Parcel is a Legal Substandard Lot Under the Rockville Town Code

The first question concerns whether the Planning Commission correctly determined that the
Andersen Parcel is a legal substandard lot eligible for development approval under the Town Code.
Utah statute directly addresses the concepts of legal nonconforming uses and legal noncomplying
structures, but it does not address legal nonconforming (or substandard, as the Town Code refers
to them) lots. Legal nonconforming uses and noncomplying structures are uses and structures that
were legally created at the time they were established or constructed, but that are noncompliant
with current codes due to subsequent changes to the local ordinances. Such uses and structures
may continue to be conducted and occupied so long as the owner or operator does not significantly
alter, demolish, or abandon the use or structure. See generally, UTAH CODE §§ 10-9a-103(45) and
10-9a-511.



1
 The parties have not asked us to explore whether the lot fronts upon a private street or right-of-way, so we limit our
consideration to the public street requirement.
Advisory Opinion – Andersen / Rockville
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 28, 2025 Page 3 of 7
One Utah Court of Appeals case briefly touched on the concept of legally nonconforming or
substandard lots and assumed that “the general principles of nonconforming use apply to a
nonconforming subdivision or nonconforming lots,” though the Court in that case did not
definitively resolve the issue because it did not rely on the concept of nonconformity to resolve
the case. Hatch v. Kane County Board of Adjustment, 2013 UT App 199, footnote 7.

Because state statute and Utah appellate courts have not provided statewide guidance on how to
resolve questions surrounding the validity of a legal substandard lot, the Town may address the
issue in its local ordinance. See, generally, UTAH CODE § 10-9a-801(3)(a) (land use regulation not
expressly preempted by state law is presumed valid).

The Town Code addresses legal substandard lots similar to nonconforming uses. As indicated
previously, the Town Code states the following: “Any lot legally held at the passage of this Code
which is below the square footage requirements or width for the zone in which it is located may
be built on provided it is located in a zone that permits the desired use.” Rockville Town Code §
9.1.5.

Thus, if it is determined that the Andersen Parcel is a legally held substandard lot of record, then
Mr. Andersen is entitled to develop the lot with any of the permitted uses in the OS-20 Zone,
assuming he can meet all other Code requirements not related to the legal nonconforming or
substandard aspects of the property.

In this case, the Planning Commission determined just this. As stated above, the Planning
Commission, on April 9, 2024, considered Mr. Andersen’s application and associated
documentation and concluded, based upon the evidence available to them, that the Andersen parcel
is a legal substandard lot eligible for development, subject to a finding by the Town Council, which
has not occurred yet, that Eagle Crags Road provides public street frontage to the lot.

The Planning Commission’s decision that the Andersen Parcel qualifies as a legal substandard lot
eligible for development is correct if the decision is supported by “substantial evidence in the
record.” See UTAH CODE § 10-9a-801(3)(c)(i) (Stating that a land use decision is arbitrary and
capricious, and therefore improper, if it is not supported by substantial evidence in the record.)

A decision is supported by substantial evidence if there is a “quantum and quality” of relevant
evidence adequate to convince a reasonable mind to support a conclusion. Caster v. West Valley
City, 2001 UT App 212, ¶ 4 (internal quotation marks omitted). In determining whether substantial
evidence supports a decision, courts “consider all the evidence in the record, both favorable and
contrary, and determine whether a reasonable mind could reach the same conclusion as the
[decision maker].” M & S Cox Invs., LLC v. Provo City Corp., 2007 UT App 315, ¶ 36. A court
does not “reweigh the evidence and independently choose which inferences [it] find[s] to be the
most reasonable. Instead, [a court] defer[s] to [the decision-maker’s] findings because when
reasonably conflicting views arise, it is the [decision maker’s] province to draw inferences and
resolve these conflicts.” Provo City & Workers Comp. Fund v. Utah Labor Comm’n, 2015 UT 32,
¶ 8 (cleaned up).



Advisory Opinion – Andersen / Rockville
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 28, 2025 Page 4 of 7
We agree with the Planning Commission that there is substantial evidence to support the
conclusion that the Andersen Parcel is a legal substandard lot. At the April 9, 2024 Planning
Commission meeting, Mr. Andersen presented evidence that the Andersen Parcel was created in
April 1962, some 25 years before the Town was incorporated. Mr. Andersen also asserted that his
parcel was created before Washington County, which would have been the land use authority in
charge of approving the division at the time, had any ordinances governing the subdivision of land.

This assertion is supported by a letter provided to the Planning Commission. The letter is dated
May 2, 2007, and was written by Deon Goheen, a Washington County Planner, on County
letterhead. It is addressed to an owner of a lot, apparently unrelated to the present matter, in
unincorporated Washington County. Its evidentiary value is found in the following statement in
the letter: “If a lot [in unincorporated Washington County] is recorded prior to 1972, the year the
County adopted their first Subdivision Ordinance, it is considered to be [a] ‘legal-nonconforming’
lot and we will issue a building permit on it, regardless of size….”

This statement, with the evidence presented above “is adequate to convince a reasonable mind to
support a conclusion,” Caster, 2001 UT App 220, ¶ 4, that the Andersen Parcel was a legally
created lot in 1962 and therefore qualifies as a substandard lot eligible for development approval
under the Rockville Town Code. This is the case even when there could potentially be a different
conclusion drawn from the same evidence.2

Where we already have a decision by the Planning Commission on the legal status of the Andersen
Parcel, our task is not to “reweigh the evidence” and decide for ourselves which is the best evidence
to rely on, as expressed above, but instead to review the Planning Commission’s decision and
decide whether the decision is supported by some amount of relevant, factual, credible evidence—
substantial evidence—in the record. Accordingly, we conclude that the Planning Commission’s
decision to approve the Andersen Parcel as a legal substandard lot was supported by substantial
evidence, and was therefore correct.

II.        It is Appropriate for the Town Council to Make a Determination that Eagle Crags
           Road is a Public Use Dedication in Order to Apply the Code’s Public Frontage
           Requirements for the Andersen Parcel Development Approval

The Town Code provides that each lot “shall have frontage upon a dedicated or publicly approved
street or upon a private street or right-of-way approved by the Town before a public permit may
be issued.” Rockville Town Code § 9.1.4. The second question the parties have asked us to examine
is whether it would be proper for the Town Council to conclude that Eagle Crags Road is a public
road providing frontage to the Andersen Parcel.

We note that the Town Council has not yet made any such conclusion but has welcomed our
opinion on whether such a conclusion would be proper. It is our opinion that, for the purpose of

2
  The City, in its submissions to this office, presented some historical State Code provisions that suggest State Law
may have required a subdivision process in certain circumstances even if a local code did not exist or require a process.
It is the opinion of this Office that the applicability of those provisions is uncertain and inconclusive, without more
context. The Washington County Planning Department letter is much more straightforward and definitive in its
relevance to the present situation.
Advisory Opinion – Andersen / Rockville
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 28, 2025 Page 5 of 7
applying a requirement of their ordinances (i.e., that a lot must have public frontage) it is
appropriate for the Town to make a factual determination of whether a public road has been created
by public use dedication, regardless of any formal court adjudication of the road’s status.

Washington County’s GIS Map3 shows Eagle Crags Road (also known as Washington County
Road Number 0764) as a dirt or gravel road meandering south off of the junction from Bridge
Road to Grafton Road through various privately owned properties in Rockville, until it reaches the
South Mesa area and the Andersen Parcel. From the South Mesa area, the road appears to continue
on into federally owned land.

It appears that this road leading to the south Mesa has never been formally dedicated as a public
road by deed, plat, or otherwise. However, this is not the only way a road becomes public under
Utah law. Utah’s public use dedication statute provides that a road over private property is
dedicated and abandoned to the use of the public when it has been continuously used as a public
thoroughfare for a period of 10 years. UTAH CODE § 72-5-104(2).4 A “thoroughfare” is a place or
way through which there is passing or travel. It becomes a “public thoroughfare” when the public
have a general right of passage. Morris v. Blunt, 61 P. 1127, 1131 (Utah 1916). A public use
dedication arises by operation of law at the time the factual conditions of the law are satisfied; no
administrative or judicial formalities are required for their establishment. See, Stichting Mayflower
Mt. Fonds v. United Park City Mines Co., 2017 UT 42, ¶ 13 n.2 and 3.5

From the documentation submitted to this Office, Eagle Crags Road has existed in excess of 10
years, and has been designated by the City as a Class C road, wherein the City receives state funds
to maintain the road. It appears generally accepted that the public regularly uses the road for
hunting access and recreational access to publicly owned land. Ultimately, neither the Town nor
Mr. Andersen have given any indication that the status of Eagle Crags Road as a public road is
disputed by any interested party.

Additionally, for the portions of Eagles Crag Road that cross, or historically crossed, federally
owned land and that abut the Andersen Parcel, Mr. Andersen, in the documentation he submitted
to the Town, provided a document titled, “Acknowledgment and Notice of Acknowledgment of
Acceptance of R.S. 2477 Right-of-Way Grant,” from the State of Utah.

RS 2477 was a federal law that permitted the creation of public roads across federal lands during
the time the statute was in effect.6 Roads authorized under RS 2477 were established according to
the terms of the laws of the state in which the land is situated, which, for roads in this state, is
Utah’s public dedication statute. See, S. Utah Wilderness All. v. BLM, 425 F.3d 735, 779 (10th Cir.
2005).



3
  Available here: https://geoprodvm.washco.utah.gov/Html5Viewer/?viewer=WashingtonCounty
4
  Specifically, the statute states that “[a] highway is dedicated and abandoned to the use of the public when it has been
continuously used as a public thoroughfare for a period of 10 years.”
5
  While the case cited refers to the establishment of roads over public lands under federal statute R.S. 2477, federal
law turns to Utah’s public dedication statute for the establishment of such roads.
6
  See, Craig Call, Public Roads and Private Lands: How Public Access Rights are Created, Used, and Abandoned in
Utah, https://utahlanduse.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/Roads-Final.pdf.
Advisory Opinion – Andersen / Rockville
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 28, 2025 Page 6 of 7
The document provided to the Town by Mr. Andersen addresses the portion of Eagle Crags Road
identified as Washington County Road 0769. The document indicates that the State has
acknowledged the road as public under United States Revised Statutes 2477 and is supported by
an affidavit from Rymal J. Hinton testifying that the road had been used by the public for the
requisite period of time to establish an RS 2477 public road.

In light of all this, the available evidence appears adequate to support a conclusion that the portions
of Eagle Crags Road crossing private property have been dedicated by public use under Utah’s
public use dedication statute. As such, a conclusion by the Town that the Andersen Parcel has
frontage along a public road is supported by substantial evidence, for purposes of approving a
building permit in accordance with the Rockville Town Code.

                                            CONCLUSION

The Rockville Town Planning Commission’s decision that the Andersen Parcel is a legal
substandard lot under the Town Code is supported by substantial evidence in the record and is
therefore lawful and correct.

Additionally, substantial evidence exists to support a conclusion that Eagle Crags Road provides
public frontage to the Andersen Parcel, for purposes of development approval.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Andersen / Rockville
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
January 28, 2025 Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in Section 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not
constitute legal advice, and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the
State of Utah or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based
on a summary review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter, and may or may
not reflect the opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and
circumstances are different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of the author’s
understanding of the relevant law, the author does not represent anyone involved in this
matter. Anyone with an interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the
advice of his or her own legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement
of how to protect or advance his or her interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty and consequential damages may also be available if the court finds that the opposing
party—if either a land use applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally
violated the law governing that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in Section 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are
also designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
