                       Advisory Opinion 309
                               Parties: Conner Dickson / Wasatch County
                                           Issued: August 1, 2025


                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                     Appealing Land Use Decisions

                                Proceeding with Reasonable Diligence

                               Requirements Imposed on Development

A decision to suspend or revoke a permit after issuance, if merely a reconsideration
of the previous approval decision, is subject to timelines for land use appeals in
ordinance—with which even the county must comply. County ordinances require
proof of legal access for building permit applications. The County approved and
issued a residential building permit but later suspended the permit upon a
neighboring landowner’s complaints that the applicant did not, in fact, have legal
access (by crossing the complainant’s property) to his property.

The landowner’s access requirement for purposes of development approval was a
question that was both considered and answered by the County’s issuance of the
permit. The County’s ability to reconsider the question of whether the permit holder’s
use of the road met legal access requirements was limited to the process for
appealing the permit approval, which had expired. By failing to timely appeal the
permit issuance, the County wrongfully suspended the permit to reconsider access
requirements and must allow construction under the issued permit.

                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                           (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                        1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                             www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                 propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor

DEIDRE M. HENDERSON             MARGARET W. BUSSE                       JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
  Lieutenant Governor           Executive Director                      Division Director




                                                ADVISORY OPINION

        Advisory Opinion Requested By:                 Conner Dickson

        Local Government Entity:                       Wasatch County

        Applicant for Land Use Approval:               Conner Dickson

        Type of Property:                              Residential

        Date of this Advisory Opinion:                 August 1, 2025

        Opinion Authored By:                           Richard B. Plehn, Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman


                                                       ISSUE

        Did Wasatch County properly suspend an issued residential building permit in response to third-
        party allegations that the property lacked adequate access?

                                         SUMMARY OF ADVISORY OPINION

        A county has continuing jurisdiction over an issued building permit to enforce its land use
        ordinances according to the terms of the issued permit. However, a decision to suspend or revoke
        a permit after issuance, if merely a reconsideration of the previous approval decision, is subject to
        timelines for land use appeals in ordinance—with which even the county must comply.

        Upon being informed of a neighboring landowner’s complaints that the private road approved for
        access to the building permit holder’s property was not built with proper permits and did not meet
        the code’s access standards, Wasatch County issued a stop work order and eventually suspended
        the permit. The terms of the suspension not only required the road to be constructed in a manner
        that was compliant with the terms of the permit, but also required the permit holder to prove he
        had legal rights to the use of the road itself to satisfy county standards for access for development.

        The landowner’s access requirement for purposes of development approval was a question that
        was both considered and answered by the County’s issuance of the permit. The County has
        authority to ensure the authorized construction activity adheres to the terms of the issued permit,
but the County’s ability to reconsider the question of whether the permit holder’s use of the road
met legal access requirements was limited to the process for appealing the permit approval, which
had expired. The County wrongfully suspended the permit to reconsider access requirements and
must therefore allow construction to continue under the issued permit.

                                                     EVIDENCE

The Ombudsman’s Office reviewed the following relevant documents and information prior to
completing this Advisory Opinion:

     1. Request for an Advisory Opinion, submitted by Conner Dickson, received May 3, 2023.
     2. Submission 1 from Wasatch County, received June 1, 2023.
     3. Submission 2 from Jordan Westgate, Attorney for Conner Dickson, received March 28,
        2024.
     4. Submission 3 from Wasatch County, received June 25, 2024.
     5. Submission 4 from Connor Dickson, received July 25, 2024.

                                                  BACKGROUND

In May of 2022, Connor Dickson was issued a residential building permit to build a cabin on
property in the area of Wasatch County known as Lime Canyon. After Mr. Dickson began
construction, the County issued a stop-work order and suspended the permit following complaints
from a neighboring landowner, John Barrick, that Mr. Dickson’s property did not have legal access
to his property via the road presented in his application, and that the road itself also did not meet
applicable county standards.

This dispute centers on disagreement about the information provided in Mr. Dickson’s application
about his proposed access, and some general disagreements about the relevant history and legal
status of certain roads in this area of Lime Canyon that would provide access to Mr. Dickson’s
property. The parties disagree on a number of facts comprising the background for this opinion,
which will be noted.1

Mr. Dickson acquired his property in 2015. Prior to this, sometime in 2013, several property
owners in Lime Canyon (including Mr. Dickson’s predecessor-in-interest, as well as Mr. Barrick)
approached the County about what needed to be done to obtain building permits. The County did
provide each property (including Mr. Dickson’s) with a Certificate of Zoning Verification,
recognizing them as lots of record that would allow one single-family dwelling to be built on the
property, though subject to certain conditions, one stating, “[t]he applicant shall show proof of a


1
  Both parties have submitted and referenced two attorney letters exchanged in early 2022, one addressed to Mr.
Barrick from an attorney representing other Lime Canyon property owners (including Mr. Dickson), as well as a
response letter from Mr. Barrick’s attorney. These letters generally address the parties’ allegations of the history of
road access to these properties, discussions between the owners as to potential agreements for shared access, or, to the
contrary, why such agreements never materialized, and events that occurred after getting an approved plan from the
County for road improvements.

Advisory Opinion – Dickson / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 1, 2025, Page 2 of 17
legal access to a public road. That access shall be improved to a County standard of a fire apparatus
road to the future dwelling on this lot.”2

The County notes that all of these properties fronted an old two track road of unknown legal status,
that was not improved to county standards, nor could it be because of intense slope (accessible by
ATV only). This “old two track road” continued west from the intersection of existing “Valley
Drive” and “Canyon Road” at the edge of the Oak Haven subdivision, and (depending on the
survey) generally runs either on or parallel to the property boundaries between four parcels to the
south of the road (Mr. Dickson’s parcel being the most westward of these) and several contiguous
parcels to the north of the road (“Barrick” parcels).

After the County’s issuance of Zoning Verification letters, the landowners that fronted the historic
road (including Mr. Barrick) hired an engineer to design a new access road intended to meet
County standards. Because of the steep grade, this newly designed road would generally have to
snake back and forth across the properties while following the general direction of the historic
two-track road. To facilitate this new route, Mr. Barrick and other landowners entered into
discussions about executing mutual easements for the new road across the respective properties.

Despite obtaining some easements, it appears that the owners could not all come to a complete
agreement on the material terms of what building this new road would entail. Nevertheless, Mr.
Barrick and another landowner appear to have decided to “mov[e] forward in the most judicious
way for all involved,” and thereafter submitted improvement plans to the County to officially
review.3

The document submitted to the County for approval consisted of 12 pages of civil engineering
plans dated October 21, 2014 titled “Lime Canyon Driveway Improvements.”4 Mr. Dickson has
prepared the following notated illustration using the Berg engineering documents and adding
numbered labels depicting different segments of both the historic two-track road, and the
subsequently improved access road.5




2
  Submission 2 (Dickson), Exhibit 3.
3
  Submission 1 (County), Exhibit 5.
4
  Submission 2 (Dickson), Exhibit 5.
5
  Submission 4 (Dickson).

Advisory Opinion – Dickson / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 1, 2025, Page 3 of 17
As shown above, the old two-track historic road is depicted by the gray and black “hashed” line,
as indicated in the legend, noting the gray hash represents the “existing driveway.” The existing
two-track road begins with the section labeled “2” that starts as a continuation of the Oak Haven
road intersection, seen at the very right of the map image, and continuing west with the sections
labeled “4” and “6”, continuing past label “7” and finally concluding with the meandering section
labeled “8” in black hashes, which then connects with Upper Canyon Drive, labeled as “9.” Labels
“1”, “3”, and “5” all depict the improved sections of the new access road, with label “7” showing
where the improvements end and reintegrate back into the historic road.6 In the above image, Mr.
Dickson’s property is labeled as the “Fuller” parcel (Mr. Dickson’s predecessor), which is depicted
as the parcel situated to the south of the road where the driveway improvements reintegrate back
into the existing road, at the label “7”.

As noted in the legend of the Berg documents, the black hash section (that Mr. Dickson has notated
as “8”) indicates a “request for existing 20’ driveway to remain as is. Slope variance may be needed
for some segents [sic] of the existing driveway.” According to these plans, then, there is provided
two directions of access to Mr. Dickson’s property – (1) coming westward up the canyon from the
subdivision and over the newly improved road, as proposed, or (2) accessing the property by
coming off Upper Canyon Drive and heading southeast over the portion of the existing historic
road that the plans propose to “remain as is.”

These Berg documents were submitted to the County by the owners to request a variance from the
County’s road standards, which the County approved on November 5, 2014. The relevant minutes
from the meeting are as follows:

                          DISCUSSION/CONSIDERATION ON A ROAD VARIANCE
                                   IN LIME CANYON – PAUL BERG



6
  Mr. Dickson notes that with the installation of the new access road, sections “2”, “4”, and “6” of the old-two track
roads are no longer accessible, the new access road having created “cliffs” in the bends that cuts off the old sections
of the historic road.

Advisory Opinion – Dickson / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 1, 2025, Page 4 of 17
           Paul Berg, from Berg Engineering, addressed the Wasatch County Council and
           indicated that Lime Canyon has a handful of lots of record which need to have
           improved access so that a building permit can be obtained. Paul indicated that
           early this summer road plans were submitted to Wasatch County. Andy Dahmen,
           Assistant Wasatch County Engineer reviewed the plan to have twelve percent slopes
           and ready to approve. Part of that process is to ask the Wasatch County Council for
           a variance. Mike Davis, the Wasatch County Manager, addressed the Wasatch
           County Council and indicated that he and Andy Dahmen met with Paul Berg and
           with the property owners and we agree that it because it is a mountain situation
           and this solution is probably the best plan to give the property owners access to
           their properties. Paul also indicated that his [sic] would also provide another loop
           for the upper end of Oak Haven which the Wasatch County Fire Chief Ernie Giles
           saw as a benefit. Councilman McPhie made a motion that we approve the
           variance in Lime Canyon and take the recommendation of the Wasatch County
           Manager and Engineer and grant the variance to the Lime Canyon Road.
           Councilman Bangerter seconded the motion and the motion carries . . . .

Submission 1 (County), Exhibit 1 – Minutes of the Wasatch County Council November 5, 2014
(emphasis in original).

The County also included, as part of the record of the variance decision, a letter submitted to the
County Council by the Wasatch County Engineer, stating as follows:

           Property owners in the Lime Canyon area outside of Midway are requesting to build
           a shared road to access their properties. The location of the proposed road is
           relatively steep. To reduce the amount of cut and the amount of retaining walls
           required to build the road they are requesting a variance to the county code to allow
           them to build the road at a 12% grade as opposed to the maximum 10% grade
           required by the code. I have reviewed the plans submitted by Paul Berg for this
           project. The plans consisted of 12 sheets dated October 21, 2014.

           In my opinion the greatest risk for the steeper road is safety and erosion. The
           engineer has done a good job of mitigating both of those risks. For this application,
           I recommend approving the variance for the following reasons;
           • The new road will be substantially better than what is present and the home
               owners will be responsible for the maintenance of the road.
           • The road will only service three lots currently and the chances for it to service
               more are minimal.
           • The owners have chosen to use the mountain standard road section which is 24’
               wide but does not require an asphalt surface. The wider road platform is a safer
               scenario. The engineer included guardrail as required by the county code.
           • The drainage plan address’ the erosion concerns. The engineer has included rip
               rap in all the ditches. The storm drain plan includes numerous inlet boxes to
               get the water out of the ditch as soon as possible. They have included 2
               detention basins to detain the added runoff due to the hard surface of the road.

Advisory Opinion – Dickson / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 1, 2025, Page 5 of 17
           Because the lots are already recorded, the applicant is not required to get approval
           from the planning commission. The next step for the applicant is to get final
           approval of the plans and apply for a grading permit through the engineering
           department. I have been working with the engineer . . . and do not foresee any
           problems moving this project through to the next step and approving for
           construction.

Id.

The above illustrates the County’s approval of the plans exactly as they were proposed, which, as
noted above, included leaving a portion of the existing historic road “as is,” noting the benefit of
providing a “loop” from the new road improvements to Upper Canyon drive.

Unfortunately, it appears that this “next step” of obtaining a grading permit approval as anticipated
in the variance approval did not occur. The County notes that the owners moved ahead with work
to install road improvements (later called “Autumn Drive”) without obtaining proper grading
permits.

According to information submitted by both parties,7 it appears that while in the months leading
up to the County’s approval of the variance, the parties generally discussed material terms of what
agreements would be needed in the way of granting easements, compensation, and other issues,
none of this appears to have been settled at the time the variance was approved. And just weeks
after the County’s approval, Mr. Barrick noted that he and select others had moved forward with
road construction, which would be finished in the spring, and that there would still need to be
discussions about how those bearing the costs will be recouped. Ultimately, due to disagreements
over these terms, Mr. Barrick never executed written easements for his parcels, and eventually,
around the spring of 2020, Mr. Barrick erected gates on the road to block off any portion of the
road that crossed his property.

Around this same time, Mr. Dickson and one other property owner submitted building permit
applications to the County in March and April of 2020. Mr. Dickson thereafter applied for a grading
permit in April of 2021 to improve his driveway.

When he initially applied for his building permit in 2020, Mr. Dickson used the property’s existing
address of 170 N. Canyon Dr., Midway UT. However, at the County’s direction, Mr. Dickson chose
a new address for the property as 2001 W. Autumn Drive, whereas the newly improved road had
been given the name of Autumn Drive by the other owners.

In reviewing Mr. Dickson’s submitted grading permit, the County first raised some questions
regarding his access rights. On May 26, 2021, Andy Dahmen, County Engineer, emailed Mr.
Dickson stating “Looking at the counties parcel map I don’t see where you have frontage on a
road. The parcel between your property and the road, which is shown as Autumn Drive, is owned

7
    See footnote 1, supra.

Advisory Opinion – Dickson / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 1, 2025, Page 6 of 17
by John Barrick. Do you have an easement, access agreement, or other access to your property that
I am not seeing?”8

Whereas the surveys used as the basis for the engineering plans (discussed above) depict Mr.
Dickson’s property as fronting directly on the existing road, the County engineer had initially
concluded that the Dickson property did not, in fact, intersect with a road because the County’s
online parcel viewer map depicted the respective property lines differently, notably that Mr.
Barrick owned a nuisance parcel between him and the road. Mr. Dickson claims that he responded
by providing additional surveys that showed he had access (those that were the basis of the
engineering plans), and invited the County engineer to the property to observe survey markers. Mr.
Dickson alleges that after the onsite visit, the County engineer agreed there was access. On June
8, 2021, the County managers office confirmed they had received an email from Andy Dahmen
concluding that Mr. Dickson did have road access, and asked Mr. Dickson to resubmit his grading
permit application. Mr. Dickson resubmitted his grading permit application on June 20, 2021, with
the Autumn Drive address as directed by the County, and the permit was approved by the County
on June 21, 2021.

Mr. Dickson then resubmitted a building permit application March 5, 2022. Mr. Dickson provided
a site plan, dated March 30, 2022, that showed his property as fronting on “Valley Road or North
Canyon Drive,” and depicting his property boundary situated on the centerline of the right of way,
reflecting a total width of 40’. Mr. Dickson’s building permit application included recorded
warranty deed documents from his predecessor-in-interest referencing a 40’ right-of-way, a survey
of his property, and a warranty deed for the Barrick property through which the existing historic
road traversed to connect Mr. Dickson’s property to Upper Canyon Drive. The conveyance in this
Barrick deed reflected “less any portion of said land lying within the boundaries of Lime Canyon
Road.”9

The County approved Mr. Dickson’s building permit on May 2022, although the County has since
argued that the permit was mistakenly issued because it was “reviewed for access issues by a new
planner that was not aware of the history of Autumn Drive,” and because the submitted plans were
misleading as they showed access to “Valley Road or North Canyon Drive” while listing the
address as “2001 W. Autumn Drive.”10 Shortly after this, Mr. Barrick approached the County about
access issues, and County officials met with Mr. Barrick on site on June 8th and inspected the
improved portions of Autumn Drive. Mr. Barrick voiced his concerns that the road was not built
per the original plans prepared by Paul Berg, and the County concluded that the actual alignment
of the road did not match the proposed alignment, the grades were steeper than the approved 12%
going around some of the curves, no guardrails were installed as anticipated, and that there was no
storm water work, no pipe crossings, and no detention basins.11

The County issued a notice of violation to each property owner along the improved portions of
Autumn Drive, stating that the road “was built without obtaining a grading permit, and has not
8
  Submission 2 (Dickson), Exhibit 8.
9
  Submission 4 (Dickson), Wasatch County Ent 484356, Bk 1311 Pg 1219-1220.
10
   Submission 1 (County).
11
   Submission 3 (County), Exhibit 6.

Advisory Opinion – Dickson / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 1, 2025, Page 7 of 17
been constructed to county standards.”12 The notices instructed each owner to apply for and obtain
a grading permit as soon as possible to remediate the compliance issues. Notably, however, these
notices that referenced the noncompliance of Autumn Drive were sent to all owners except Mr.
Dickson. While Mr. Dickson also received a notice of violation, his notice cited a different basis
for a violation, namely, that he had filled natural drainage without a grading permit, as well as an
issue with the Utah Division of Water Quality. (Mr. Dickson alleges that the County had forgotten
it previously granted a grading permit to Mr. Dickson, and thereafter withdrew its notice).

Nevertheless, the County thereafter issued Mr. Dickson a letter dated September 22, 2022
(“Suspension Letter”), wherein the County formally suspended Dickson’s building permit pending
resolution of issues concerning legal access, citing Mr. Barrick’s complaints as a basis, and
instructed Mr. Dickson to do the following:
           a. Establish he had legal access to and across Autumn Drive to meet the “recorded
               right of way” requirements of county code.
           b. Obtain a grading permit and construct Autumn Drive in a manner that complies
               with the permit requirements.

On April 6, 2023, Mr. Dickson submitted to the County a letter from Professional Land Surveyor
Joseph Carr describing an easement that the surveyor concludes grants Mr. Dickson access over
the Barrick property to Autumn Drive. On April 18, 2023, the County Attorney responded that the
information provided was not “sufficient evidence of a legal right of access.”13

Following the County’s rejection of this information provided by Mr. Dickson, a request for an
Advisory Opinion was filed to determine whether the County lawfully suspended Mr. Dickson’s
building permit after issuance based on the access complaints of the neighboring landowner.

                                              ANALYSIS

       I.        Mr. Dickson’s Permit Did Not Expire Prior to Requesting the Advisory Opinion.

In responding to Mr. Dickson’s request for an Advisory Opinion, the County raises a jurisdictional
argument that Mr. Dickson’s building permit expired pursuant to County ordinances, and therefore
without a valid building permit or pending building permit application, Mr. Dickson’s complaint
to the Ombudsman lacks standing. Because the County’s argument speaks to the requesting party’s
standing to request an opinion, we will address this argument first.

Wasatch County Code addresses the expiration of building permits as follows:

            A building permit shall expire if construction is not begun within one hundred
            eighty (180) days from the date the building permit was issued, or if the work
            authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of one
            hundred eighty (180) days after the time the work is commenced, or if an

12
     Submission 3 (County), Exhibit 8.
13
     Submission 3 (County), Exhibit 11.

Advisory Opinion – Dickson / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 1, 2025, Page 8 of 17
           inspection is not requested within one hundred eighty (180) days from the previous
           inspection. The building official is authorized to grant, in writing, one or more
           extensions of time, for periods of not more than one hundred eighty (180) days
           each. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause
           demonstrated. A building permit shall expire if construction is not completed and a
           certificate of occupancy and land use compliance is not obtained within five (5)
           years from the date the building permit was issued. The building department may,
           for good cause shown, extend the expiration date for a period of time not to exceed
           one additional year.

WASATCH COUNTY CODE 2002 (“WCC”) § 14.01.05 (emphasis added).

In the County’s response to the advisory opinion request, it notes that Mr. Dickson’s building
permit was issued on May 3, 2022. The County then argues that whereas it had no record of Mr.
Dickson ever requesting an extension, Mr. Dickson’s permit has been expired since October 30,
2022. The County’s calculation is incorrect, however, because the ordinance only takes into
account the date of permit issuance for purposes of expiration when construction does not begin
within 180 days of the permit’s issuance. That is not applicable here, as it does not seem generally
disputed that Mr. Dickson undertook construction activity within six months of the permit’s
issuance, as evidenced by the fact that the County issued “stop-work” orders within that six-month
period. Rather, the ordinance otherwise provides that the permit expires 180 days from three other
identified events: (1) suspension of the authorized work; (2) abandonment of the authorized work;
or (3) an inspection is not requested within 180 days from the previous inspection.

We note that the County formally suspended Mr. Dickson’s permit with the September 22, 2022
letter. We also note that Mr. Dickson filed his request for an advisory opinion on May 3, 2023,
which is more than 180 days after the date of the Suspension Letter. Nevertheless, we hesitate to
jump to the conclusion that this means that Mr. Dickson’s permit had expired before requesting an
advisory opinion based on the information provided, as follows.

The submissions indicate that, following the County’s Suspension Letter, Mr. Dickson made
several efforts to remedy the issues cited as the basis for the suspension according to the
instructions of the Suspension Letter.

Specifically, the Suspension Letter requests that Mr. Dickson demonstrate he has legal access to
Autumn Drive, which the County notes could be accomplished by a recorded right of way
agreement with Mr. Barrick, a court order, or by other means that the County would need to review,
“and make a determination with the information provided.” The County invites Mr. Dickson to
reach out with additional information as it becomes available regarding access, and the County
states that it would evaluate the status.

First, despite the County’s claim that it had no record of Mr. Dickson requesting an extension, in
response, Mr. Dickson provided some documentation that he had, in fact, requested an extension
in approximately November of 2022, not long after the Suspension Letter. Specifically, an email
dated December 6, 2022 from the County Building Department to Mr. Dickson has the subject

Advisory Opinion – Dickson / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 1, 2025, Page 9 of 17
“Extension Request Rejection.” The content of the email suggests that an extension requested by
Mr. Dickson was being rejected for apparent formatting reasons, namely, it states “Please include
a brief explanation as to why no inspections have occurred and include your signature and date the
letter.”14 Mr. Dickson contends that he did, in fact, resubmit the request following this email, and
while not documented, Mr. Dickson alleges that in inquiring with the County after this point, he
was informed verbally that his extension had been approved. It is at least apparent that an extension
was at least requested and perhaps informally accepted, if not formally approved in writing, within
the six-month period following the suspension.

Next, Mr. Dickson attended a zoom meeting on March 13, 2023 with the County Engineer and
County attorney to discuss the status of his permit.15 As a result of that meeting, the parties
identified several action items for Mr. Dickson to address the issues set forth in the Suspension
Letter.

On April 6, 2023, Mr. Dickson submitted Joseph Carr’s letter to the County, setting forth the
arguments that Mr. Dickson did have legal right-of-way to access his property.16

Finally, Mr. Dickson met again with the County attorney and planning department officials on May
4, 2023 over zoom.17 Mr. Dickson had submitted his request for an advisory opinion the day before,
though the Ombudsman’s Office did not send a notice letter to the County until May 9, 2023.

State law provides that the “continuing validity of an approval of a land use application is
conditioned upon the applicant proceeding after approval to implement the approval with
reasonable diligence.” UTAH CODE §17-27a-508(1)(e). While a legislatively enacted process of
normal permit expiration in local ordinance can necessarily inform what constitutes “reasonable
diligence” under this standard, the standard may also act as a state preemption to the enforcement
of a local expiration provision if it is being applied in a way that does not allow or recognize the
reasonable diligence of the applicant’s efforts to implement the approval.

Here, where the County expressly invited the subsequent submission of information by Mr.
Dickson to be evaluated for further determination of the County as means of lifting the suspension
to continue work on the issued permit, we hesitate to conclude that his permit was clearly expired
according to County ordinance prior to the date he requested the advisory opinion where he applied
for an extension and continued to meet with County officials regarding his permit, and submitted
information in response to the County’s request, and where the County continued to respond with
determinations on the submitted information as late as April 18, 2023, just days before the request
for an advisory opinion was submitted.

While our office provides no opinion on whether the permit has since expired on the basis of any
action since the advisory opinion has been requested, we at least decline to dispose of this advisory
opinion request on the allegation that the permit had already expired before making the request.
14
   Submission 4 (Dickson), December 6, 2022 email from Callie Payne to Connor Dickson.
15
   Submission 4 (Dickson).
16
   Submission 3 (County), Exhibit 10.
17
   Submission 4 (Dickson).

Advisory Opinion – Dickson / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 1, 2025, Page 10 of 17
     II.         The Factual Basis to Determine Right to Access and Road Standards Was
                 Available in the Evidence in the Record at the Time of Building Permit Approval.

The County’s two identified compliance issues cited as the basis for suspending the issued building
permit both reference the following provision in County Code:

           Must Prove Right To Access: No building permit . . . shall be issued for a building
           that is to be constructed on a lot or parcel that does not either abut a dedicated public
           street or highway, or a private roadway, built to county standards that is either
           owned by the property owner requesting the permit, dedicated to the county, or has
           a recorded right of way sufficient to meet county standards.

WCC § 16.27.31(A). Citing this provision, the County’s Suspension Letter identified two specific
issues regarding access to be addressed: “First, in light of the legal dispute between Mr. Barrick,
yourselves, and others regarding the right to access Autumn Drive, you need to demonstrate that
you do have legal access to and across Autumn Drive to meet the ‘recorded right of way’
requirement.” And “[s]econd, we have taken a closer look at the status of Autumn Drive in regards
to whether [it] has been built to county standards,” and “Autumn Drive as it is currently constructed
does not meet county standards, nor was it permitted when it was recently improved.”

As detailed in the background section, we find that the following facts were evidenced in
the record at the time the County issued the building permit on May 3, 2022:
    • The County approved a variance on November 5, 2014 according to plans
        submitted to the County from Berg Engineering dated October 21, 2014 titled
        “Lime Canyon Driveway Improvements.”
    • The approved improvement plans were based on survey information showing the
        historic road as being consistent with the property boundary between the parcels
        generally situated north and south of the historic road, respectively, and show Mr.
        Dickson’s property as having access via the historic road.
    • While the approved plans depict Mr. Dickson’s property as benefitting from
        improved access from the newly designed road segment, they also depict Mr.
        Dickson’s property as having alternative access from an existing segment of the
        historic road, with the notation regarding this segment as “request for existing 20’
        driveway to remain as is.”
    • Following approval of the variance, no grading permit for the road was ever
        obtained.
    • In or around April 2021, Mr. Dickson applied for a grading permit to improve his
        driveway, and while this application was under review, the County Engineer raised
        questions regarding access but ultimately concluded that Mr. Dickson did have
        legal access for the purpose of obtaining a permit.
    • Mr. Dickson resubmitted a building permit application March 5, 2022, and provided
        a site plan, dated March 30, 2022, that showed his property as fronting on “Valley
        Road or North Canyon Drive,” his property boundary situated on the centerline of


Advisory Opinion – Dickson / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 1, 2025, Page 11 of 17
            the right of way, reflecting a total width of 40’, and also included recorded warranty
            deed documents from his predecessor-in-interest referencing a 40’ right-of-way, a
            survey of his property, and a warranty deed for Barrick property over which he
            would be traversing for access.

Based on the above, the County had everything it needed in the existing record at the time the
complete building permit application was submitted in order to make a decision regarding the
application’s compliance with applicable access requirements in County ordinances. The County
thereafter rendered a decision and approved the permit. While arguably information about Autumn
Drive’s noncompliance was “new” information brought to the County’s attention after it had
approved Mr. Dickson’s permit, the County’s own records (including the lack of any grading
permits for the road following the variance approval) were certainly available to the County at the
time to be able to inform its decision.

     III.        The County Has Continued Jurisdiction Over the Issued Permit for Enforcement
                 Purposes, but May May Only Reconsider its Approval Within the Process in
                 Ordinance for Appealing a Land Use Decision.

While not directly addressed in Utah, it is the general rule, followed by several states, that “a
building permit issued in violation of law or under mistake of fact confers no right, and may be
revoked upon discovery of the error, even after business operations have begun.” 13 Am. Jur. 2d
Building § 11. See also, St. Raymond v. City of New Orleans, 99-2438 ( La. App. 4 Cir 08/02/00),
769 So. 2d 570, 576, Godson v. Surfside, 150 Fla. 614, 618, 8 So. 2d 497, 498 (1942) (quoting the
same).

However, not dissimilar from the County, Mr. Dickson likewise makes a jurisdictional argument
that in suspending his building permit months after its issuance in reliance on the neighbor’s
allegations, the County in essence authorized an unlawful appeal of its building permit decision
well after the applicable time for appeal according to state law.

A county maintains jurisdiction over an issued permit for purposes of enforcement, up until the
point of finally issuing a certificate of occupancy. See, UTAH CODE §15A-1-104(5) (2024) (once
occupancy is issued, issuing entity “may not . . . exert additional jurisdiction over the elements of
the project”). The Wasatch County Code provides that “the building department is authorized to
“conduct investigations” and “make final decisions related to code compliance” and “exercise
judgement related to continuance or discontinuance of projects for reasons related to safety,
standards or project objectives,” WCC § 14.01.02(B)-(C), and to issue stop work orders on
construction sites. Id. § 14.01.08(2)(e).

However, state law makes a distinction between a matter of enforcement, and a challenge to a land
use decision. Utah courts have explained that “when the alleged violation arises directly from a
municipal land use decision,” a land use appeal is required, whereas an enforcement action is
applicable when “parties seek redress from an alleged ordinance violation in circumstances where
the alleged violation is not authorized by or embodied in a municipal land use decision.” Fuja v.
Woodland Hills, 2022 UT App 140, ¶ 15 (quoting Foutz v. City of S. Jordan, 2004 UT 75, ¶ 17).

Advisory Opinion – Dickson / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 1, 2025, Page 12 of 17
Therefore, “when the alleged violation arises directly from a municipal land use decision, the
parties must comply with the requirements of the statutory provision that specifically addresses
appeals from land use decisions.” Foutz, 2004 UT 75, at ¶ 17 (emphasis added).

Utah courts have also determined that the mandatory provisions for timely appeals established in
local ordinance is jurisdictional, not advisory. It is therefore not up to the City’s discretion whether
to consider a matter that is outside of the relevant appeal period. See, Brendle v. City of Draper,
937 P.2d 1044, 1048 (Utah Ct. App. 1997) (a city council lacked jurisdiction to hear a neighboring
landowner’s untimely appeal of a building permit and therefore acted unlawfully in issuing a stop
work order).

For land use decisions of a county, specifically, the County Land Use, Development, and
Management Act (CLUDMA) provides that “[t]he land use applicant, a board or officer of the
county, or an adversely affected party may, within the time period provided in ordinance, appeal
that decision to the appeal authority by alleging that there is error in any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by the land use authority in the administration or interpretation of
the land use ordinance.” UTAH CODE §17-27a-703(1) (emphasis added). CLUDMA provides, then,
that even county officers must adhere to applicable processes for land use appeals.

The County’s Suspension Letter, signed by both the assistant planning director and building
director, stated that the planning director had determined that “additional evidence needs to be
provided in order to demonstrate you meet Wasatch County Code access requirements for a
building permit, which in turn has caused the Building Director to determine that the requirements
for the building permit have not been demonstrated.” (emphasis added).

This Suspension Letter, signed by “officer[s] of the county,” is an appeal of the building permit
decision, insofar as it “alleg[es] that there is error in [the] order, requirement, decision, or
determination” in the issued building permit, issued by the building department acting as the “land
use authority in the administration or interpretation of the land use ordinance.” As such, the County
is required to comply with the statutory provisions for appeals from a land use decision.

     IV.         The County’s Suspension of Mr. Dickson’s Building Permit on the Basis of Access
                 Requirements Was Foreclosed by the County’s Appeal Process.

Wasatch County Code provides that “[a]ppeals of land use decisions, final administrative
decisions, or enforcement actions applying Land Use and Development Code shall be filed in the
office of the Planning Department within ten (10) days of the date the county official issues the
administrative decision.” WCC § 2.02.02(G).

Utah law provides one caveat as to when the clock for such a time period begins. In Fox v. Park
City, the Utah Supreme Court held that the appeal period begins when the affected party receives
actual or constructive notice that the permit has been issued—except that, a party must not only
have notice that a building permit has been issued, but must also have knowledge of the facts that
form the basis of the party’s objection to the permit before the appeal period begins. Fox v. Park
City, 2008 UT 85, ¶¶ 27-28. Typically, “[s]uch facts are generally contained in the permit or permit

Advisory Opinion – Dickson / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 1, 2025, Page 13 of 17
application,” and as such, “if the facts that form the basis for the party’s appeal can be ascertained
by a review of the permit application, the party is charged with knowledge of those facts once he
or she has actual or constructive notice of the permit's issuance. If, on the other hand, the permit
application does not contain the facts, and the party is not charged with knowledge of the facts,
then the appeal period does not begin until the party receives knowledge of those facts from some
other source.” Id. at ¶ 28 (emphasis added).

Consistent with the general rule that a building permit issued in violation of law or under mistake
of fact may be revoked upon discovery of the error, the applicable appeal window for such a
revocation, according to Fox, is either (1) from the date of issuance if the factual basis for the
alleged error is contained in the record evidencing approval of the permit, or, (2) from the date of
the discovery of the error, if the record at the time of approval does not contain the facts
demonstrating the error, but instead come from some other source.

Here, the County issued Mr. Dickson’s building permit on May 3, 2022. According to the County,
the County Engineer inspected the road and surrounding properties on June 8, 2022, and
discovered several reasons why the improved road providing access to Mr. Dickson’s property did
not comply with the proposed road design approved by the 2014 variance.

Therefore, even if we assume that the Autumn Drive improvements’ noncompliant status was not
evident to the County at the time it issued the permit, and was only discovered upon its inspection
on June 8, 2022, the County was required to appeal the building permit approval within 10 days
of the discovery. Even accepting the County’s Suspension Letter as constituting an “appeal” of the
building permit approval, see, e.g., N. San Juan Cnty. Coal. V. San Juan Cnty., 2023 UT App 12 (a
letter did not specifically need to include the word “appeal” in order to serve as an appeal under
requirements in local ordinance), this came well after the 10-day timeline allowed by County
ordinances and state law.

Whereas the County did not timely appeal the building permit approval upon discovery of an error
that formed the basis of the approval, the County’s jurisdiction to reconsider the matter was
foreclosed by state law.

We also finally note that, even apart from the allegations that the improved portions of Autumn
Drive were noncompliant with the County’s road standards—as approved by the 2014 variance—
at the time of the building permit issuance, this fails to take into account that the 2014 variance
also approved a portion of the existing historic road “as is” without the need for further
improvements or approvals. The access proposed in Mr. Dickson’s building permit application
likewise allows access via this portion of existing road (Section “8” of the illustration in the
background section), which would not be affected by a loss or closure of access via the improved
portions of Autumn Drive.

Apart from the road’s status, the County’s Suspension Letter also separately noted as a basis for
suspension that Mr. Barrick claimed that Mr. Dickson did not have legal rights to access the road
itself, and the County requested that Mr. Dickson demonstrate that he met the “recorded right of


Advisory Opinion – Dickson / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 1, 2025, Page 14 of 17
way” requirements in County code for a building permit to demonstrate that he had deeded access
to the road itself.

This is very blatantly a reconsideration of the building permit approval upon nothing more than
the same information that was already in the existing record and available to the County at the time
it approved the building permit. Prior to Mr. Dickson’s building permit application, at the time of
his grading permit application in 2021, the County engineer raised the very same access concerns,
based on the very same survey data, that is now being argued by Mr. Barrick. There is therefore
no discovery of an error based on any new information as it relates to Mr. Dickson’s right to access
Autumn Drive itself, particularly relating to the existing portion of the historic road accepted “as
is” in the 2014 variance approval.

It is generally undisputed that there has been conflicting survey information for the properties over
the years that, when compared, creates either gaps or overlaps in the parties’ respective property
boundaries. It is well accepted that the land use approval process is not the appropriate venue to
resolve quiet title disputes.18 As such, it was never the County’s responsibility to make a legal
determination of the parties’ respective claims to title. Rather, in acting as a land use authority, the
County’s only role is limited to making a determination that a land use application meets the
requirements of applicable County ordinances that govern the use and development of property.

To the extent that the County Code has made the development of property contingent on a
requirement that the applicant “prove right to access” upon a road that is “either owned by the
property owner requesting the permit . . . or has a recorded right of way,” WCC § 16.27.31(A), the
County has taken it upon itself to make a factual determination that a particular recorded right of
way proffered by an applicant satisfies this requirement for a right to access, for purposes of
applying its regulations.

So, while the determination that a recorded right-of-way exists may be a legal conclusion as it
relates to the respective property interests of Mr. Barrick and Mr. Dickson as claimants to title in
dispute, when it comes to the County’s purposes, that determination is simply a factual conclusion
in support of its determination that its access requirements have been met. The County’s factual
conclusions supporting a building permit approval do not alter or affect the parties’ actual deeded
property rights in any way, it simply authorizes the applicant to commence construction activity
on his own property consistent with the requirements imposed by the County. Should Mr. Barrick
believe that Mr. Dickson’s actual intended use of the road to access his property for residential
purposes exceeds any established right Mr. Dickson may have to cross Mr. Barrick’s property, Mr.
Barrick may file a quiet title or trespass action to enforce his claimed property rights and seek

18
   See, e.g., Borough of Braddock v. Allegheny County Planning Department, 687 A.2d 407 (Pa. Cmwlth. 1996) (a
zoning board is an inappropriate vehicle to deal with complex issues of title, which the opposing parties should resolve
by a quiet title action); see also, Cybulski v. Planning & Zoning Comm’n, 43 Conn. App. 105, 110, 682 A.2d 1073,
1076 (1996) (planning commission does not have the authority to determine whether a claimed right-of-way is a public
highway, since that conclusion can be made only by a judicial authority in a quiet title action); c.f., Clermont Terrace
Site Plan & Zoning Permit Approvals, 2006 Vt. Envtl. LEXIS 73, *10 (once an applicant has put forth some evidence
on their interest and right in the property proposed for development, any further claims to title, or claims attacking the
same, must be presented to the appropriate Superior Court for adjudication).

Advisory Opinion – Dickson / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 1, 2025, Page 15 of 17
injunctive relief of further construction activity. This remedy as a property owner is not preempted
or replaced by the land use approval process.

Here, the mere presence of conflicting claims to title does not preclude the County from making
factual conclusions to apply the terms of its ordinances in approving a particular land use.
Administrative land use decisions must be supported by substantial evidence, and a decision is
supported by substantial evidence if there is a quantum and quality of relevant evidence that is
adequate to convince a reasonable mind to support a conclusion. Caster v. West Valley City, 2001
UT App 212, ¶ 4.

In the context of administrative decision-making under the substantial evidence standard, where
there exists a “possible conflict in the evidence, it is the province of the [administrative authority]
. . . to resolve conflicting evidence, and where inconsistent inferences can be drawn from the same
evidence, it is for the [authority] to draw the inferences.” Cook v. Labor Comm'n, 2013 UT App
286, ¶ 19 (internal quotations omitted).

So while the County building department may have been faced with conflicting survey information
regarding the properties’ respective boundaries in relation to the location of the existing road, as
the fact finder, the County may choose to give certain evidence more weight than other evidence,
and it was ultimately the County’s “responsibility to resolve conflicts in the evidence that came
before it.” Id. ¶ 20. In this instance, the County approved not only Mr. Dickson’s grading permit
in 2021 after considering the conflicting survey information, it also subsequently approved the
building permit that required finding that the property had a “prove[n] right to access.” This may
not have been the only conclusion that could be reached in light of the conflicting survey evidence,
but a land use decision is supported by substantial evidence as long as a reasonable mind could be
convinced to reach the same conclusion.

The County’s explanation as to why the permit was wrongfully approved hinged partly on a new
planner “that was not aware of the history of Autumn Drive” that failed to “explor[e] the issues of
access beyond the misleading plans.”19 Nevertheless, the information necessary for the County to
render a land use decision was readily available in the record, and whether the County’s initial
factual conclusions should be deemed right or wrong, there did exist a mechanism for other county
officials to officially challenge the building department’s approval of the building permit, or even
for the building department to reconsider its own decision. That recourse, however, expired when
the applicable timeline for appealing the building permit approval lapsed. It was therefore unlawful
for the County to later suspend Mr. Dickson’s building permit based on questions of code
compliance that were decided by the permit approval.

                                              CONCLUSION

After issuance of a building permit, the County has continued jurisdiction to enforce the terms of
the permit to ensure that construction activity complies with the permit as issued. However, the
County’s ability to reconsider questions of code compliance that are decided as a matter of course

19
     Submission 1 (County).

Advisory Opinion – Dickson / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 1, 2025, Page 16 of 17
of approving the building permit is subject to the land use appeal process. Because the County did
not challenge the permit issuance within the timeframe afforded for land use appeals in county
ordinances, the County acted unlawfully in suspending Mr. Dickson’s permit after the fact, based
on compliance issues related to the decision approving the permit.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Dickson / Wasatch County
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
August 1, 2025, Page 17 of 17
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not constitute
legal advice and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of Utah
or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a summary
review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter and may or may not reflect the
opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and circumstances are
different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in § 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are also
designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
