                       Advisory Opinion 305
                              Parties: Kayla and Logan Iverson, Ogden City
                                          Issued: June 6, 2025


                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                               Compliance with Land Use Regulations
                                     Interpretation of Ordinances
                               Requirements Imposed on Development
                                 Entitlement to Application Approval



The property owners applied for a home occupation business license to conduct
ceramics classes in their attached garage. The City denied the application, arguing
the garage is an accessory building where home occupations are not allowed.
However, the City Code defines a structurally connected garage as part of the
dwelling. Because the Code does not plainly prohibit the proposed use and contains
ambiguous language, state law requires interpreting the Code in favor of the
property owner. Therefore, the application complies with zoning regulations and
must be approved.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                           (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                        1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor               MARGARET W. BUSSE        JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                             Executive Director        Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION

         Advisory Opinion Requested by:                Iverson Ceramics

         Local Government Entity:                      Ogden City

         Property Owner:                               Kayla and Logan Iverson

         Type of Property:                             Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                June 6, 2025

         Opinion Authored By:                          Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman



                                                        Issue

         Does the application for a home occupation business license comply with the zoning regulations
         of the city code?

                                              Summary of Advisory Opinion

         The property owners seek a business license to operate an art studio from their attached garage
         where they occasionally teach small ceramics classes. The City Code includes provisions regarding
         home occupations that are not entirely clear when read as a whole. Because one interpretation
         clearly allows such use, and ambiguity in zoning ordinances must be interpreted in favor of the
         property owner, the proposed use must be allowed.

         Although the City contends that the garage qualifies as an accessory building and therefore may
         not be used for a home occupation, the City Code does not plainly prohibit a home occupation in
         an attached garage. As such, the City must approve the application.

                                                      Evidence

         The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
         Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:
          1. Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Amy Thompson on behalf of Kayla and
             Logan Iverson (Iverson Ceramics), with attachments, received April 15, 2024; and

          2. Response from Ogden City received June 21, 2024.

                                                   Background

Kayla and Logan Iverson (the Property Owners) operate a ceramics studio in their attached garage.
The garage, which includes an electric kiln and folding tables and chairs, is used both for personal
art creation and for holding small ceramics classes. It shares a roof and wall with the main
residence and is thus structurally connected.

In 2019, the Property Owners obtained an electrical permit from Ogden City (the City) to upgrade
an outlet in their garage for the kiln. Following that upgrade, they report having spoken with city
staff who indicated that a business license was not necessary for holding ceramics classes in their
home studio.

Five years later, in 2024, the City became aware of the use after receiving neighbor complaints. A
Code Officer informed the Property Owners that they were in violation of the City Code for
operating without a home occupation business license.

The Property Owners suspended the ceramics classes and applied for a home occupation business
license. After extended discussions, the City denied the application, asserting that the proposed use
did not conform to land use regulations. The Property Owners maintain that the City has
misinterpreted the applicable code provisions and that their proposed use is lawful.

The Property Owners have therefore requested this Advisory Opinion to answer whether their
home occupation business license application complies with the applicable City land use
regulations.

                                                    Analysis

The City maintains the applicable land use ordinances do not permit the home occupation of
ceramics classes in the garage for two reasons:

           (1) home occupations must take place within a dwelling and cannot be in an accessory
           building, and

           (2) a garage that does not house vehicles and is used to conduct business is an accessory
           building.

The City relies on the following definitions for their interpretation:

     •    HOME OCCUPATION: The use of a portion of a dwelling as an office, studio or workroom
          for occupations which are customarily conducted in the home that are incidental to the
          primary use as a home or residence; provided additionally, that: a) the occupation is limited
          to members of the family who reside on the premises; b) such occupation shall not require


Advisory Opinion – Iverson Ceramics / Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 6, 2025, Page 2 of 4
          interior or exterior alterations; c) the occupation shall not include the sale of commodities
          which are not produced on the premises; and d) the occupation shall not use any accessory
          buildings, yard or any space outside of the main building not normally associated with
          residential use (it may include child daycare of not more than 8 children or preschool of
          not more than 8 children); and e) wholesale and/or retail sales of commodities are not
          permitted directly from the home. CITY CODE § 15-5-9 (emphasis added).

     •    BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building or a portion of the main building on a
          lot, the use of which is customarily incidental to that of the main or principal building. CITY
          CODE § 15-2-3.

     •    GARAGE, PRIVATE: An enclosed space or accessory building for the storage of one or
          more motor vehicles; provided, that no business, occupation or service is conducted for
          profit therein, nor space therein for more than one car is leased to a nonresident of the
          premises. A garage shall be considered part of the dwelling if the garage and dwelling have
          a roof or wall in common, or are connected structurally by a physical connection such as a
          wall, trellis or solid fence. CITY CODE § 15-2-8.

Note that under Utah law, when interpreting ordinances, any ambiguity must be resolved in favor
of the property owner. For instance, “if a land use regulation does not plainly restrict a land use
application, the land use authority shall interpret and apply the land use regulation to favor the land
use application.” UTAH CODE § 10-9a-306(2). Also “We read the plain language of the ordinance
as a whole and interpret its provisions in harmony with other ordinances in the same chapter and
related chapters.” Springville Citizens for a Better Cmty. v. City of Springville, 1999 UT 25, ¶ 29,
979 P.2d 332. See also: LPI Servs. v. McGee, 2009 UT 41, ¶ 11, 215 P.3d 135; Miller v. Weaver,
2003 UT 12, ¶ 17, 66 P.3d 592. Furthermore, “Land use ordinances must be liberally construed in
favor of the property owner due to their restrictive nature on property rights.” Patterson v. Utah
County Bd. of Adjustment, 893 P.2d 602.

The City contends that the garage is an accessory building and therefore not eligible for use as a
home occupation. The City’s first point—that home occupations may not occur in accessory
buildings—is supported by the ordinance. City Code Section 15-5-9 clearly states that a home
occupation “shall not use any accessory buildings.”

However, the City’s second point—that the garage qualifies as an accessory building—is less clear.
The definition of GARAGE, PRIVATE states that a garage “shall be considered part of the
dwelling if the garage and dwelling have a roof or wall in common, or are connected structurally.”
Here, the garage is structurally connected, which satisfies this definition. Therefore, by ordinance,
the garage is part of the dwelling.

The City’s counterargument hinges on the same provision, which defines a private garage as “an
enclosed space or accessory building not used for profit.” The City interprets this to mean that any
profit-generating use converts the garage into an accessory building. However, this interpretation
is unsupported by the text and contradicts the provision’s unambiguous language identifying
structurally connected garages as part of the dwelling. The Code contains no clear directive stating
that converting a garage to profit-making use alters its classification. There is no express language
indicating that “attached garages used for profit are considered accessory buildings.”

Advisory Opinion – Iverson Ceramics / Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 6, 2025, Page 3 of 4
The City further argues that the garage is “not normally associated with residential use.” However,
garages are widely accepted as part of residential use—particularly when structurally integrated.

Similarly, the definition of BUILDING, ACCESSORY is described as a structure “the use of which
is customarily incidental to that of the main or principal building.” The City maintains that the
garage use is incidental to the main or principal dwelling. While plausible, this narrow
interpretation is not otherwise supported by the ordinance, and it does not override the express
definition in City Code Section 15-2-8 that attached garages are part of the dwelling.

The City Code includes contradictory language. One section plainly states that a structurally
connected garage is considered part of the dwelling, while others suggest that perhaps garages
used for profit may not be permissible for home occupations. Where there is contradiction or
ambiguity, state law requires interpretation in favor of the applicant.

Key terms such as “residence,” “residential use,” and “dwelling” are not defined in the relevant
City Code or under state law. This, combined with the contradictory language, creates ambiguity.
While some provisions could be interpreted as supporting the City’s denial, others—particularly
the definition stating a garage “shall be considered part of the dwelling” when structurally
connected—support the Property Owners’ position.

Ambiguity in land use regulations must be interpreted liberally in favor of allowing the proposed
use. Because the City Code does not plainly prohibit the proposed use in this case, and because
there is clear support for classifying the garage as part of the dwelling, the application for a home
occupation business license complies with zoning regulations and the City must approve the
application.

                                                   Conclusion

The property owners applied for a home occupation business license to conduct ceramics classes
in their attached garage. The City denied the application, arguing the garage is an accessory
building where home occupations are not allowed. However, the City Code defines a structurally
connected garage as part of the dwelling. Because the Code does not plainly prohibit the proposed
use and contains ambiguous language, state law requires interpreting the Code in favor of the
property owner. Therefore, the application complies with zoning regulations and must be
approved.



Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Iverson Ceramics / Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 6, 2025, Page 4 of 4
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not constitute
legal advice and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of Utah
or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a summary
review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter and may or may not reflect the
opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and circumstances are
different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in § 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are also
designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.




Advisory Opinion – Iverson Ceramics / Ogden City
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
June 6, 2025, Page 5 of 4
