                       Advisory Opinion 303
                       Parties: Lawrence and Kabrina Allen, City of West Haven
                                       Issued: March 11, 2025


                                           TOPIC CATEGORIES:

                                               Impact Fees
                                        Exactions on Development




The city’s storm water impact fee is not lawful where it is based on parcel size rather
than impact on the storm water infrastructure.




                                                 DISCLAIMER

The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman makes every effort to ensure that the legal analysis of each Advisory
Opinion is based on a correct application of statutes and cases in existence when the Opinion was prepared. Over
time, however, the analysis of an Advisory Opinion may be altered because of statutory changes or new
interpretations issued by appellate courts. Readers should be advised that Advisory Opinions provide general
guidance and information on legal protections afforded to private property, but an Opinion should not be considered
legal advice. Specific questions should be directed to an attorney to be analyzed according to current laws.




                       The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
                       Utah Department of Commerce                                           (801) 530-6391
                       PO Box 146702                                                        1-877-882-4662
                       160 E. 300 South, 2nd Floor                              www.propertyrights.utah.gov
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84114                                  propertyrights@utah.gov
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor               MARGARET W. BUSSE        JORDAN S. CULLIMORE
                             Executive Director        Division Director, Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                  ADVISORY OPINION

         Advisory Opinion Requested by:                Lawrence and Kabrina Allen

         Local Government Entity:                      City of West Haven

         Property Owner:                               Lawrence and Kabrina Allen

         Type of Property:                             Residential

         Date of this Advisory Opinion:                March 11, 2025

         Opinion Authored By:                          Marcie M. Jones, Attorney
                                                       Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman

                                                        Issue

         Is the city’s storm water impact fee lawful where it is based on parcel size rather than impact on
         the storm water infrastructure?

                                          Summary of Advisory Opinion

         Property owners plan to construct a single-family home on a 3-acre parcel of land and were
         assessed a storm water impact fee exceeding $12,000 as a part of the building process. This fee is
         imposed in accordance with the adopted storm water impact fee schedule which uses a generic and
         undefined “developed acre” as the unit of impact. The approach disregards the actual intensity and
         scope of the proposed development and the expected disruption to natural water flow.

         Using “developed acres” as the unit of impact does not adequately quantify how various
         development proposals will impact storm water runoff and the storm water infrastructure as
         required by the Impact Fees Act and therefore violates the Act and also fails to produce a roughly
         proportional result as required by the Takings Clause of the U.S. Constitution. Using this approach
         does not substantiate the imposition of a $12,660.82 storm water impact fee on the single-family
         residence proposed by the property owners.
We conclude that the storm water impact fee, as imposed, does not meet the requirements of the
Impact Fees Act and has not been shown to be roughly proportional to the impact of the proposed
development and is therefore unlawful.

                                                     Evidence

The following documents and information with relevance to the issue involved in this Advisory
Opinion were reviewed prior to its completion:

          1. Request for Advisory Opinion submitted by Lawrence and Kabrina Allen, with
             attachments, received April 29, 2024.

          2. Meeting with Shawn Warnke, city manager and Amy Hugie, city attorney, on May
             29, 2024, on behalf of the City of West Haven. Documents related to Allen’s impact
             fee protest and appeal submitted following the meeting.

                                                   Background

Lawrence and Kabrina Allen (the Property Owners) intend to construct a single-family home on a
3.59-acre parcel of land within the City of West Haven (the City). When the Property Owners
applied for the building permit, they were assessed a storm water impact fee of $12,660.82 (Storm
Water Impact Fee or Impact Fee), which is based on the size of the lot on which development was
proposed. The Impact Fee is calculated at $3,526.59 per acre, resulting in the total fee of
$12,660.82 for the 3.59-acre parcel (3.59 acres x $3,526.59 per acre = $12,660.82).

The Storm Water Impact Fee was established in accordance with an Impact Fee Facilities Plan
(IFPP) and an Impact Fee Analysis (Impact Fees Analysis). These documents projected the City’s
growth at an average rate of 100 acres per year over the coming years. The analysis also determined
that to maintain the existing level of storm water service, additional improvements would be
necessary to handle the increased runoff from the new development, with a projected cost of
$2,137,857 for these improvements over the next 6 years. To calculate this fee, the total cost of
these improvements was divided by the 100 acres of undescribed projected development per year
over the six-year period, which yielded a total of $3,526.59.1

However, the Property Owners have protested this approach, arguing that the Impact Fee should
instead be based on the scope of the disturbed area and the resulting change to the natural flow of
water. They contend that the fee should reflect the increase in storm water runoff caused by the
development, not the total size of the parcel. According to the Property Owners, the impact of a
single-family home would be the same regardless of whether it is located on a quarter-acre lot or
a ten-acre lot. They maintain that charging the Impact Fee based on the size of the parcel rather

1
 This fee includes the planning, surveying, and engineering fees directly connected to construction of the storm water
system improvements, as permitted by law, and gives a credit of $96.41 for deficiencies in the existing system.

Advisory Opinion – Allen / City of West Haven
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 11, 2025, Page 2 of 7
than the actual disturbed area and change to the natural water flow into the storm water system is
unfair and disproportionate, which they argue is unlawful.

Tying the Impact Fee to the size of the lot rather than the scope of the development implies that
the land itself is triggering the impact. The Property Owners maintain that “[t]his cannot be the
case, as the lot itself has been present within the boundaries of the City of West Haven without
being determined as having a negative impact on the City’s storm water management
infrastructure. Only now that the [Property Owners] wish to develop approximately 3% of the lot
(the proposed footprint of the residential structure, including concrete for hardscapes for garage
driveways) does the entirety of this lot, 100% of it, somehow become a negative impact on the
storm water management. Indeed, if the land itself is the real problem, why doesn’t the City impose
this impact fee on everyone who owns undeveloped land within the City’s boundaries.” Request
for Advisory Opinion dated April 29, 2024. The new system improvements necessitated by existing
and new development include new storm drain siphons, regional detention, as well as new and
replaced storm-drain pipe along identified roadways.

The Property Owner requested that the City amend how the impact fee is calculated. The City
declined to do so, finding that the city would need to do another impact fee study to change the
way fees are accessed. The City apparently investigated a hybrid methodology of “developable
area” and “impervious surface area” but concluded that having two methodologies would
inherently lead to conflict when administering the impact fee. Furthermore, the City determined
that the Property Owner’s request did not meet the established standards to adjust the impact fee
established in the Impact Fee Analysis.

The Property Owners argue that the Storm Water Impact Fee exceeds the actual impact of
developing their single-family home and is therefore unlawful. As a result, the Property Owners
have requested this Advisory Opinion to determine whether the City’s imposition of a $12,660.82
Storm Water Impact Fee as a condition of approval of their single-family residence on a three-acre
parcel is lawful.

                                                Analysis

     I.        Basing the Impact Fee on acreage alone does not address the relative extent to
               which the particular development will contribute to the cost of public facilities

The Utah Impact Fees Act, found in Utah Code Chapter 11-36a, defines an impact fee as “a
payment of money imposed upon new development activity as a condition of development
approval to mitigate the impact of the new development on public infrastructure.” UTAH CODE §
11-36-102(9)(a). Government-mandated contributions, such as impact fees, are considered
exactions when imposed as a condition of development approval. To be legally valid, an exaction
must address a specific problem created by the development and must be roughly proportional to
the anticipated impact.

Advisory Opinion – Allen / City of West Haven
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 11, 2025, Page 3 of 7
Impact fees raise concerns under the Takings Clause of the U.S. Constitution and Article I Section
22 of the Utah Constitution, which both protect private property from governmental taking without
just compensation. A municipality may not “force some people alone to bear public burdens which,
in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.” Armstrong v. United States,
364 U.S. 40, 49 (1960).

The principles governing exactions are outlined in the U.S. Supreme Court’s landmark decisions
in Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n, 483 U.S. 825 (1987) and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512
U.S 374 (1994) which the Utah Legislature has distilled and codified in UTAH CODE § 10-9a-
508(1). The analysis has been termed the “rough proportionality test,” requires that:

          (a) an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
              exaction; and,

          (b) each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact
              of the proposed development.

UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508(1) (emphasis added). If a proposed impact fee satisfies this test, and is
otherwise legal, it is valid. If the impact fee fails the test, it violates protections guaranteed by the
Takings Clauses of the U.S. and Utah Constitutions and is illegal. Call v. West Jordan, 614 P.2d
1257, 1259 (Utah 1980).

As with all exactions, the amount of the impact fee must be roughly proportional to the impact
generated by the development. Greater impacts justify higher fees. See B.A.M. Development, LLC
v. Salt Lake County, 2008 UT 74, ¶12 (holding that the exaction and the costs of mitigating the
impact must be roughly equivalent); see also UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(8)(a) (defining impact fees
in relation to the impact of the new development), UTAH CODE § 11-36a-603(1) (requiring the
refund of impact fees where no impact occurs), UTAH CODE § 11-36a-402 (allowing for offsets of
impact fees where the developer provides system improvements that reduce the need for additional
facilities). See also, Tooele Assocs. Ltd. P'ship v. Tooele City Corp., 2011 UT 4, 247 P.3d 371 (Utah
Sup. Ct.) (emphasizing that the ultimate test of constitutionality is whether the fee is reasonably
related to the benefits conferred). An impact fee that requires a developer to pay more than its fair
share, or a disproportionate amount for impacts it did not create, is unconstitutional. See generally
Call v. City of West Jordan, 614 P.2d 1257 (Utah, 1980).

Development activities invariably generate impacts on public infrastructure, and impact fees are a
mechanism by which the developer bears its fair-share costs of these. In furtherance of the
constitutional standard articulated above, impact fees must also be determined and calculated in
accordance with the provisions of the Utah Impact Fees Act referenced above. Theoretically, and
ideally, if a local government follows the procedures outlined in the Impact Fees Act for
determining an impact fee, the result will be a fee that proportionally offsets the impact of each
development proposal that comes before the local government. In other words, by enacting an

Advisory Opinion – Allen / City of West Haven
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 11, 2025, Page 4 of 7
impact fee schedule in compliance with the Impact Fees Act, the schedule should comply with the
rough proportionality requirements of the Constitutions.

The principle of rough proportionality is embedded in the language of the Impact Fees Act itself.
For example, in conducting the Impact Fee Analysis, a municipality must “estimate the
proportionate share of . . . the costs of impacts on system improvements that are reasonably related
to the new development activity.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-304(1).

Also, “in analyzing whether or not the proportionate share of the costs of public facilities are
reasonably related to the new development activity, the [municipality] shall identify . . . the relative
extent to which development activity will contribute to the cost of existing public facilities and
system improvements in the future. . .” and the City “shall base impact fees on realistic estimates
and the assumptions underlying those estimates shall be disclosed in the impact fee analysis.”
UTAH CODE § 11-36a-304(2)(e); UTAH CODE § 11-36a-305(2) (emphasis added). Furthermore,
“Proportionate share" is defined as “the cost of public facility improvements that are roughly
proportionate and reasonably related to the service demands and needs of any development
activity.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-102(16).

These requirements imposed by the Impact Fees Act fulfill the City’s constitutional burden of
establishing that impact fees are roughly proportional and reasonably related to the impact of
development. See Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S. 374 (1994).

Unfortunately, in this instance, the Impact Fee Analysis upon which the Storm Water Impact Fee
is based does not provide sufficient information to establish “the relative extent to which the
development activity will contribute” to the storm water system demand, nor “realistic estimates
and assumptions underlying those estimates” as required by the Impact Fees Act. See UTAH CODE
§ 11-36a-304(2)(e); UTAH CODE § 11-36a-305(2).2 At the core of the issue, relying on the
undefined term “developed acres” seems to lack the nuance needed to establish a proportional
relationship between the impact fee charged and development proposed.

The Impact Fees Analysis is brief and skips important explanations. For instance, the Impact Fees
Analysis identifies the costs of future system improvements and contrasts that with undefined
“growth in acres” to come up with a calculation of “cost per acre.” City Storm Water Impact Fee
Analysis, Zion Public Finance, Inc., October 15, 2022, page 8. This cost forms the basis for the
Storm Water Impact Fee calculations. However, the Impact Fees Analysis does not include a



2
  Although not explicitly briefed, we assume that various types of development will result in different changes to the
natural flow of water, consequently affecting the storm water system in distinct ways. For instance, covering a parcel
with impervious surfaces such as parking lots, cement pads, and buildings will produce runoff that differs significantly
from areas with agricultural use, playing fields, gravel paths, gardens, or undeveloped natural landscapes.


Advisory Opinion – Allen / City of West Haven
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 11, 2025, Page 5 of 7
definition of “growth in acres” nor directly connect this apparently averaged, generic and
undefined growth to the storm water facilities themselves.

The Impact Fees Analysis generic treatment of all “developed acres” uniformly leads to a
disproportionate burden on low-density, low disturbance development. This one-size-fits-all
approach fails to adequately analyze the specific proportional share of impact on the storm water
system attributable to the proposed single-family residence.

To meet the requirements of the Impact Fees Act, the Impact Fees Analysis must include a
determination of “the relative extent to which development activity will contribute to the cost of
existing public facilities and system improvements in the future.” UTAH CODE § 11-36a-
304(2)(e). The Impact Fees Analysis does not achieve compliance by citation alone. It needs to
provide some reasoned explanation or basis for how its findings accomplish the objectives of the
Impact Fees Act.

According to documents provided, the City based the Impact Fee on two factors — (1) the
estimated cost of storm water projects within the planning window and (2) expected acreage
developed. The required system improvement costs were averaged across all acres, which fails to
consider the significant differences in storm water runoff between low-density/impact and high-
density/impact developments.

By choosing “developed acres” as the unit of demand and leaving it undefined and disconnected
from any measured impact on the storm water system, the Impact Fees Analysis circumvents the
constitutional protections embedded in the Impact Fees Act. While precise mathematical
calculations are not required, there must be an individualized assessment demonstrating that the
impact fee is roughly proportional and reasonably related to the impact. See Dolan v. City of
Tigard, 512 U.S. 374 (1994).

In the case at hand, we are not convinced that the Storm Water Impact Fee as applied to this single-
family residence sufficiently meets the standard of being roughly proportional. There is no clear
connection between the size of the lot and the amount of storm water runoff produced. Storm Water
runoff is more directly influenced by the intensity of development and the disturbance to natural
water flow post-development, rather than the size of the parcel itself.

The City has the burden to establish that the Impact Fee charged is roughly proportional and
reasonably related to the impact. Because this burden has not been met, imposition of a $12,668.82
Storm Water Impact Fee as a condition of approval of a single-family residence on a 3.69 acre
parcel is not lawful.




Advisory Opinion – Allen / City of West Haven
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 11, 2025, Page 6 of 7
                                                Conclusion

Assessing an impact fee using a generic and undefined “developed acre” as the unit of impact
disregards the actual intensity and scope of the proposed development as well as the expected
disruption to natural water flow. Similarly, using “developed acre” does not adequately quantify
how various development proposals will impact storm water runoff and the storm water
infrastructure as required by the Impact Fees Act to produce a roughly proportional result as
required by the Takings Clause of the U.S. Constitution.

Using this approach does not substantiate the imposition of a $12,660.82 Storm Water Impact Fee
on the single-family residence proposed by the Property Owners. We conclude that the storm water
impact fee is not roughly proportional and is therefore unlawful.




Jordan S. Cullimore, Lead Attorney
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman




Advisory Opinion – Allen / City of West Haven
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
March 11, 2025, Page 7 of 7
NOTE:

This is an advisory opinion as defined in § 13-43-205 of the Utah Code. It does not constitute
legal advice and is not to be construed as reflecting the opinions or policy of the State of Utah
or the Department of Commerce. The opinions expressed are arrived at based on a summary
review of the factual situation involved in this specific matter and may or may not reflect the
opinion that might be expressed in another matter where the facts and circumstances are
different or where the relevant law may have changed.

While the author is an attorney and has prepared this opinion in light of his understanding
of the relevant law, he does not represent anyone involved in this matter. Anyone with an
interest in these issues who must protect that interest should seek the advice of his or her own
legal counsel and not rely on this document as a definitive statement of how to protect or
advance his interest.

An advisory opinion issued by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is not binding
on any party to a dispute involving land use law. If the same issue that is the subject of an
advisory opinion is listed as a cause of action in litigation, and that cause of action is litigated
on the same facts and circumstances and is resolved consistent with the advisory opinion, the
substantially prevailing party on that cause of action may collect reasonable attorney fees
and court costs pertaining to the development of that cause of action from the date of the
delivery of the advisory opinion to the date of the court’s resolution. Additionally, a civil
penalty may also be available if the court finds that the opposing party—if either a land use
applicant or a government entity—knowingly and intentionally violated the law governing
that cause of action.

Evidence of a review by the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the opinions,
writings, findings, and determinations of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman are
not admissible as evidence in a judicial action, except in small claims court, a judicial review
of arbitration, or in determining costs and legal fees as explained above.

The Advisory Opinion process is an alternative dispute resolution process. Advisory
Opinions are intended to assist parties to resolve disputes and avoid litigation. All of the
statutory procedures in place for Advisory Opinions, as well as the internal policies of the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, are designed to maximize the opportunity to
resolve disputes in a friendly and mutually beneficial manner. The Advisory Opinion
attorney fees and civil penalty provisions, found in § 13-43-206 of the Utah Code, are also
designed to encourage dispute resolution. By statute they are awarded in very narrow
circumstances, and even if those circumstances are met, the judge maintains discretion
regarding whether to award them.
