> Source: (not recorded — see minutes_index.csv)
> Meeting date: 2020-11-17
> Format: ocr

---

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2020 
 
 
 
20 - 1 
The City Council met in Work Session on Tuesday November 17, 2020, 
in an Electronic Meeting, pursuant to Chair determination Salt 
Lake City Emergency Proclamation No. 2 of 2020(2)(b). 
 
In Attendance: Council Members Andrew Johnston, Amy Fowler, Chris 
Wharton, Daniel Dugan, Darin Mano, and James Rogers. 
 
Absent: Councilmember Valdemoros. 
 
Staff in Attendance: Cindy Gust-Jenson, Council Executive 
Director; Jennifer Bruno, Council Deputy Director; Erin 
Mendenhall, Mayor; Rachel Otto, Mayor’s Chief of Staff; Katherine 
Lewis, City Attorney; Ben Kolendar, Economic Development Deputy 
Director; Allison Rowland, Council Public Policy Analyst; Mary 
Beth Thompson, Chief Financial Officer; Nick Tarbet, Council 
Senior Public Policy Analyst; Karl Lieb, Fire Chief; Lani 
Eggertsen-Goff, Housing & Neighborhood Development Director; Lisa 
Shaffer, Mayor’s Chief Administrative Officer; Amanda Lau, Council 
Public Engagement & Communications Specialist; Debra Alexander, 
Human Resources Director; Daniel Rip, Housing & Neighborhood 
Development Policy & Program Manager; Cindy Lou Trishman, City 
Recorder; Blake Thomas, Community & Neighborhoods Director; Robert 
Nutzman, Council Administrative Assistant; Benjamin Luedtke, 
Council Policy Analyst; and DeeDee Robinson, Deputy City Recorder. 
 
Guests in Attendance: Jessica Thesing, Urban Affairs Director, 
Downtown Alliance (Item #4). 
 
 Councilmember Wharton presided at and conducted the meeting. 
 
The meeting was called to order at 2:09 p.m. 2:09:04 PM 
 
AGENDA ITEMS 
 
 #1. 2:10:29 PM Informational: Updates Relating to Mayor’s 
Proclamations Declaring Local Emergencies for COVID-19, March 
Earthquake, and Windstorm. The Council will receive an update from 
the Administration about the Mayor’s emergency declarations 
relating to COVID-19 (coronavirus), the March 18th earthquake in 
the Salt Lake Valley and the September 8th windstorm. As part of 
the update, the Council may discuss public health and other public 
safety, policy and budget issues stemming from the emergency 
declarations. The Council may also receive information or updates 
from organizations or experts related to the emergency responses 
and coordination, including but not limited to earthquake damage

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2020 
 
 
 
20 - 2 
to the City, the functioning of the Emergency Operations Center 
(EOC), City response and aid, and the status of City buildings. 
 
 Mayor Mendenhall briefed the Council regarding: 
 
COVID-19 Updates: 
• As COVID-19 cases were rising, current focus was continuing to 
ensure employees were safe, getting residents/businesses the 
needed access to all available resources, and providing 
information on the pandemic on a continual basis. 
• An effective vaccine would soon be available, and City wanted 
to involve the community well before vaccine availability 
ensuring questions could be answered as well as an established 
feedback loop for any community member to find vaccine 
information therefore increasing vaccine utilization. 
• More information would be provided to the Council on 
State/County plans for distribution once obtained. 
 
Business support efforts/CARES funding: 
• City recognizing restaurants appeared to be the hardest hit 
during pandemic – with zero federal support on the horizon (for 
winter) - fears that local establishments might suffer/go out 
of business. 
• Studying the potential for temporary outdoor dining options 
through the winter months – allowing for expansion of operations 
with temporary structures for patrons to enjoy outdoor dining - 
details would be finalized this week and Council would be 
notified before any new proclamation was issued. 
 
Digital Equity Update: 
• City received 11 pieces of “smart furniture” - ordered in June 
2020 and funded through Public Services, Youth & Family Services 
Division, and Information Management Systems (IMS). 
• Two “smart furniture” pieces would be installed at the Sorensen 
Unity Center this month with additional areas across the City 
being currently mapped out for installation. 
• “Smart furniture” utilized solar power and would provide free 
public Wi-Fi and device charging once installed. (Planned 
installation of all furniture was throughout this winter and 
ready for use in the early spring). 
• Internet Backhaul System was installed on the mountain/connected 
to Plaza 349 last week. 
• Teams currently working to map out areas of the City for

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2020 
 
 
 
20 - 3 
broadcasting free Wi-Fi - first three anticipated pilot areas: 
Liberty, Pioneer, and Jordan River Parks. 
• City Connect Network was now available at Sorensen Unity Center, 
Youth & Family Administration Offices, and Plaza 349. (Rose Park 
Connect, Glendale Connect, and Salt Lake City Library computer 
labs were currently closed.) 
• Administration was seeking input from Council regarding City 
partners to provide additional indoor computer lab locations 
this winter. 
• Popup labs being provided for constituents to sign up for 
programs like stimulus checks - IMS providing Wi-Fi hotspot, 
printer, and laptops for the events. 
• Digital Navigators (part of Budget Amendment No.4) - IMS 
partnered with Youth & Family Services for five apprentice 
positions (trained by IMS/Youth City Staff in computer support 
skills) to be deployed physically/virtually to assist with 
digital literacy/popup labs/other activities. 
• Efforts were being made for ownership of City technology assets 
- ensuring used equipment could be donated to needs in the 
community. 
 
 #2. 2:18:17 PM Informational: Updates on Relieving the 
Condition of People Experiencing Homelessness. The Council will 
hear updates and discuss issues pertaining to relieving the 
condition of people experiencing homelessness in neighborhoods 
throughout Salt Lake City. 
 
Rachel Otto briefed the Council regarding partnership with 
Salt Lake Valley Coalition to End Homelessness/County/City 
partners for winter shelter options (priority/goal being a non-
congregate/hotel type setting), Community Commitment Program 
recently ended third week of daily outreach with service provider 
partners in the 500 West area (out of 166 persons encountered, 40 
were willing to engage in conversation with service providers, and 
16 expressed interest in shelter options), COVID-19 proving to be 
a challenge in the shelter system, outreach team making priority 
to place couples together in motels until more shelter options 
became available, not proceeding to remove encampments until 
assurances were made for enough shelter space, and continuing to 
evaluate Community Commitment program/ability of service providers 
to staff the outreach efforts. 
 
 #3. 2:23:53 PM Informational: Updates on Racial Equity and 
Policing. The Council will hold a discussion about recent efforts

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2020 
 
 
 
20 - 4 
on various projects City staff are working on related to racial 
equity and policing in the City. The conversation may include 
issues of community concern about race, equity, and justice in 
relation to law enforcement policies, procedures, budget, and 
ordinances. Discussion may include: 
• An update or report on the newly created Commission on 
Racial Equity in Policing; and 
• Other project updates or discussion. 
 
 Allison Rowland and Benjamin Luedtke briefed the Council 
regarding Racial Equity in Policing Commission (REP): 
• Next meeting was scheduled for November 18, 2021 at 5:00 p.m. - 
agenda included reports from the subcommittee and youth 
subcommittee meetings 
• Plans for a listening session in the coming weeks - providing 
opportunity for community feedback/involvement 
• Reminder that meetings were hosted by the Salt Lake City Library 
and were open to the public (also available on YouTube channel: 
“SLC REP Commission” 
• Agendas for each meeting were available on the Salt Lake City 
Boards webpage and a phone line for any questions 801 535-7644 
 
Updates on the Police Department Audit, including: 
• Selection committee of internal City employees met yesterday 
with one bid being well received 
• Meeting scheduled for next Monday for members of the selection 
committee to meet with the auditing firm leadership 
• Items identified in the audit scope for potential adjustments 
were draft body-camera ordinance, analysis of police officer 
turn-over, civil service commission repeal, and the Mobile 
Crisis Outreach Team (MCOT) at the University of Utah as an 
alternative model responding to mental health crises 
• Staff working on the next round of public engagement for the 
audit (to run concurrently with the consultant’s audit work) - 
ideas being explored were an anonymous feedback mechanism (for 
members of the public & City employees), small group meetings 
facilitated for interested parties, regular updates to the 
Council website (a dedicated webpage for the audit to be updated 
as it progressed), and updates to be sent to the REP commission 
email list (containing over 4,500 email addresses). 
 
 Straw Poll: Support for moving forward with the audit firm 
selection process (and engagement letter) before the next Council

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2020 
 
 
 
20 - 5 
meeting. Council Members Fowler, Mano, Rogers, Wharton, Johnston, 
and Dugan were in favor. Councilmember Valdemoros was absent for 
the vote. 
 
 Councilmember Johnston requested Staff work with Council 
leadership to work out a timeframe for the zero-based budgeting 
process. 
 
 #4. 2:40:55 PM Ordinance: Budget Amendment No. 4 for Fiscal Year 
(FY) 2020-2021 Follow-up. The Council will receive a follow-up 
briefing about an ordinance that would amend the final budget of 
Salt Lake City, including the employment staffing document, for 
Fiscal Year 2020-21. Budget amendments happen several times each 
year to reflect adjustments to the City’s budgets, including 
proposed project additions and modifications. The proposal 
includes: 
• $1.5 million as part of a proposed expansion to the 
 Accelerator program ($500 prepaid debit cards in direct aid 
 to residents ineligible for CARES Act stimulus checks); 
• a new apprentice program pairing high school students and 
 young adults with City employees; 
• additional funding for the enhanced YouthCity program; 
• homeless camp clean-up funding; 
• a downtown ambassadors program expansion into the Rio Grande 
 neighborhood and North Temple area; 
• authorizing the third round of CARES Act funding the City may 
 receive in the coming weeks to cover payroll expenses in the 
 Fire Department and 911 Department; 
• and other items. View Attachments 
 
 Benjamin Luedtke and Jessica Thesing (Downtown Alliance) 
briefed the Council and discussion was held regarding Item E-19 
Downtown Ambassador expansion: how it overlapped with the Police 
Bike Squad, metrics for the expansion (determining if the program 
was successful), the Ambassador Program tracked wellness checks, 
service provider referrals, and provided citizen/visitor 
assistance, all calls made to/from the Ambassador program were 
reported weekly/monthly/quarterly, no specific metrics for the 
pilot area on North Temple – but could be provided along with any 
other additional metrics (including crime reports/other items of 
Council interest) as requested by the Council, The Rio Grande 
Ambassador expansion having no funding to continue into FY 2022 
unless new funding was identified in the next annual budget, 
information regarding Rio Grande Ambassador expansion alternative 
options (including necessary funding, levels of service,

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2020 
 
 
 
20 - 6 
days/hours of operation, how many Ambassadors would be needed for 
each area), and item E-20 Enhanced Homeless Camp Cleanup: the 
Portland Loos (installed by the former Road Home shelter) were now 
operational with an Advantage Services attendant at the gate, and 
Public Lands having indicated availability of 27 portable 
restrooms/vault restrooms that were open in City parks/natural 
lands and would be open throughout the winter. 
 
 Councilmember Fowler inquired what the funding ($760,110 from 
CARES Act Second round) for E-20 would cover. Lani Eggertsen-Goff 
said this was an extension of existing work being done (existing 
contract for portable restroom attendance, bio-waste clean-up, 
trash clean-up, and some power washing) into the remainder of the 
fiscal year. 
 
 Councilmember Fowler said, due to the name/title of E-20, it 
might be misconstrued by the public as to what services the City 
was providing with the funding and inquired if the name/title could 
be changed. Rachel Otto agreed that it was mislabeled and said the 
name/titling should have instead been referred to as the enhanced 
neighborhood cleaning (Community Commitment Program), and the 
intent was to provide increased cleaning into neighborhoods where 
not only people were camping, but to help businesses and residents 
with cleaning efforts on public/private property. She added the 
Council was recently provided an additional breakdown of expenses 
for this item. 
 
 #5. 3:07:17 PM Ordinance: Budget Amendment No. 5 for Fiscal Year 
(FY) 2020-2021. The Council will be briefed about an ordinance 
that would amend the final budget of Salt Lake City, including the 
employment staffing document, for Fiscal Year 2020-21. Budget 
amendments happen several times each year to reflect adjustments 
to the City’s budgets, including proposed project additions and 
modifications. The proposal includes: 
• accepting $7.1 million in U.S. Housing and Urban Development 
 (HUD) CARES Act grants which will be awarded to specific 
 community organizations through a separate, open, and 
 competitive process; 
• adding temporary lighting near homeless resource centers; 
• repairs to City sidewalks damaged during the September 8 
 windstorm; 
• demolition of the Glendale water park 
• $20.5 million from the next issuance of the $87 million voter-
 approved Streets Reconstruction Bond; 
• and other items. View Attachments

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2020 
 
 
 
20 - 7 
Benjamin Luedtke, Blake Thomas, Mary Beth Thompson, Ben 
Kolendar, Rachel Otto, Katherine Lewis, Cindy Lou Trishman, Debra 
Alexander, and Daniel Rip briefed the Council and discussed the 
following: 
• If Budget Amendment was approved as proposed by the 
Administration, Fund Balance would drop to 11.7% ($4 M below 
the 13% target but staying above the recommended 10% minimum 
threshold) 
• A-1 Animal Services County Contract ($44,192 – General Fund) 
• A-2 Sustainability – Pick Up Truck ($55,000 – Refuse Fund) 
• A-3 Sustainability – (7) Certified Natural Gas (CNG) Refuse 
Packers ($2.6 M – Refuse Fund) 
• A-4 Public Safety – Costs related to the Vice-Presidential 
Debate ($315,944 – General Fund) 
• A-5 CARES Act Funding from U.S. Housing & Urban Development 
(HUD) ($7,138,203 from HUD) including (3) new temporary/part-
time employees for the life of the one-time CARES HUD-CV dollars 
• A-6 Consumer Protection Analyst (Budget Neutral in FY21) 
• A-7 Economic Development Deputy Director Funding ($34,878 – 
General Fund) 
• A-10 Temporary Lighting Near Homeless Resource Centers ($33,000 
– General Fund) 
• A-11 Department of Air Quality (DAQ) – Lawnmower, Snowblower, 
String Trimmer Exchange ($250,000 – General Fund) allowing 
residents to exchange gas-powered machines for electric 
equipment 
• A-12 Attorney’s Office New Positions ($184,075 – General Fund) 
(1) Senior City Attorney and (1) Administrative Assistant 
• A-14 50% Renewable Energy for Municipal Operations Project 
($45,000 – Refuse Fund) 
• A-15 Restore Human Resource Department Deputy Director FTE 
($81,317 - General Fund/$14,350 - Risk Fund) 
• A-16 Restore Contract Specialist Funding ($20,892 – General 
Fund) 
• A-17 Right of Way Repairs from September 8 Windstorm ($662,500 
– General Fund) including sidewalks, curb/gutter, driveway 
approaches, and concrete streets 
• A-18 Glendale Water Park Demolition, Fencing and Security 
($855,000 – General Fund) including community outreach and plans 
for Parks & Public Lands to conduct a visioning exercise soon 
to contemplate/analyze potential future uses 
• D-3 General Obligation 2020A Streets Reconstruction Bond ($20.5

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2020 
 
 
 
20 - 8 
M – Bond Issuance) 
• D-5 FY 2021 Capital Improvement Projects (CIP) Landfill 
Construction and Planning Projects ($15,000,000 – CIP) budget 
funds were a pass through and fully reimbursed by the Landfill 
to the City 
• D-6 HUD Grant Recaptures ($37,535 from miscellaneous grants and 
$1,250,212 from Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)). 
 
Councilmember Johnston inquired about any overage of funds 
above the 10% threshold of Fund Balance being used for the next 
FY. Mary Beth Thompson said the current projections were from last 
year and final Fund Balance totals would not come until mid to end 
of December and hoped that residual funds would be available for 
the next FY. Mayor Mendenhall stated this was what Fund Balance 
was for (when what was planned did not come through); the City’s 
ability to maintain all City services and employees with no 
furloughs, with focus on maintaining the wellness of the City’s 
corporation through the current uncertainty/unpredictability. 
 
Unanimous Straw Polls: (Councilmember Valdemoros absent) 
 
• Support for the allocation of $2.6 M from the Refuse Fund for 
(7) CNG Refuse Packers. 
• Support for the allocation of $184,075 from the General Fund 
for two new Attorney’s Office FTEs. 
• Support for the allocation of $15,000,000 for CIP Landfill 
Construction and Planning Project. 
• Support for the allocation of $55,000 from the Refuse Fund for 
a pickup truck for Sustainability. 
 
 #6. Tentative Break 
 
 #7. 4:21:42 PM Ordinances: Creating an Appeal Hearing Officer 
System by Repealing Civil Service Commission and Employee Appeals 
Board. The Council will be briefed about a proposal to replace 
both the Civil Service Commission and the Employee Appeals Board 
with an appeal hearing officer system. The proposal also includes 
a new chapter in Salt Lake City Code to establish competitive 
merit-based recruitment and promotion processes for the Fire 
Department and the Police Department. View Attachments 
 
 Benjamin Luedtke provided a brief introduction to the item, 
described the ordinances (and possible revisions) involved, and 
indicated this was the first briefing on the item with a public

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2020 
 
 
 
20 - 9 
hearing scheduled for December 1, 2020. 
 
 Rachel Otto, Katherine Lewis, Debra Alexander, and Karl Lieb 
provided information regarding drafting the proposed ordinances, 
origination/purpose of the Civil Service Commission (serving 
Police and Fire employees only and separate from the Memorandum of 
Understanding/negotiations between Administration, City Council, 
and Unions), the proposed Employee Appeals Board would serve civil 
service positions as well as merit employees, benefits included 
expediting recruitment/promotion for civil service employees and 
increasing the City’s ability to attract diverse candidates into 
leadership roles in both the Fire and Police Departments, and 
current red-lined ordinance drafts reflected discussions with 
Local 81 Fire Union, addressing their concerns. 
 
 #8. 4:38:55 PM Ordinance: Demolition of Dangerous or Boarded 
Buildings Follow-up Briefing. The Council will receive a follow-
up briefing on changes to the City’s Demolition ordinance. The 
proposed changes are intended to streamline the process for 
demolitions on commercial and residential properties, remove the 
requirement for a replacement use, landscape plan and bond, and 
provide clarity to the enforcement process for boarded buildings. 
Chapters 18.48, 18.64 and 2.21.030 of the Salt Lake City Code will 
be amended as part of this proposal. The continued public hearing 
for this item is scheduled during the November 17th formal meeting. 
The Council may consider taking action after the public hearing. 
 
*Note, a previous agenda occurrence incorrectly listed Chapter 
18.84 instead of 18.48. View Attachments 
 
Nick Tarbet provided a brief introduction to the item, 
indicated there was a public hearing this evening with the Council 
having the option to adopt the ordinance, and reviewed answers 
from the Administration to previous questions from the Council 
relating to additional fees for Police/Fire services, persistent 
nuisance buildings, per building vs. per parcel, etc. 
 
STANDING ITEMS 
 
 #9. Report of the Chair and Vice Chair 
 
 Item not held. 
 
 #10. 4:48:24 PM Report and Announcements from the Executive 
Director. Report of the Executive Director, including a review of

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2020 
 
 
 
20 - 10 
Council information items and announcements. The Council may give 
feedback or staff direction on any item related to City Council 
business, including but not limited to: 
• City Boards and Commissions Vacancies; and 
• Scheduling items 
 
 See announcements. 
 
 #11. Tentative Closed Session. The Council will consider a 
motion to enter into Closed Session for any specific purpose under 
Section 52-4-205. 
 
 Item not held. 
 
 The Work Session meeting adjourned at 4:54 p.m. 
 
 Minutes Approved: July 13, 2021 
 
 
_______________________________ 
COUNCIL CHAIR 
 
 
_______________________________ 
CITY RECORDER 
 
 This document is not intended to serve as a full transcript 
as other items may have been discussed; please refer to the audio 
or video for entire content pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-203(2)(b). 
 
 This document along with the digital recording constitute the 
official minutes of the City Council Work Session meeting held 
November 17, 2020. 
 
dr 
Chris Wharton (Jul 20, 2021 17:39 MDT)
Cindy Trishman (Jul 20, 2021 19:57 MDT)

11-17-2020 WS Minutes - Approved July 13,
2021 Formal Meeting
Final Audit Report 2021-07-21
Created:2021-07-20
By:DeeDee Robinson (deedee.robinson@slcgov.com)
Status:Signed
Transaction ID:CBJCHBCAABAAHTWwjOeLon6krjTxJEDvsG5UQr8vArZP
"11-17-2020 WS Minutes - Approved July 13, 2021 Formal Meet
ing" History
Document created by DeeDee Robinson (deedee.robinson@slcgov.com)
2021-07-20 - 10:36:05 PM GMT- IP address: 204.124.13.222
Document emailed to Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-07-20 - 10:37:00 PM GMT
Email viewed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
2021-07-20 - 11:39:26 PM GMT- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Document e-signed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-07-20 - 11:39:33 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Document emailed to Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-07-20 - 11:39:35 PM GMT
Document e-signed by Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-07-21 - 1:57:17 AM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Agreement completed.
2021-07-21 - 1:57:17 AM GMT
