Nephi City
ORDINANCE 12-02-2025
CREATION OF INDUSTRIAL 4 ZONE (ID4)
CREATION OF INDUSTRIAL 4 ZONE (ID4) FOR DATA CENTERS WITH
ASSOCIATED BUILDINGS, USES, AND UTILITIES BOTH PUBLIC AND
PRIVATE, INCLUDING POWER GENERATION.
WHEREAS, Nephi City wishes to provide for areas in the city limits that allows for data centers
with their associated buildings, uses and utilities; and
WHEREAS, There are specific parameters that govern, and are common and necessary for the
use of data centers and their functionality that are sufficiently unique from other industrial uses; and
WHEREAS, Nephi City wishes to allow specific areas for data centers to be located; and
WHEREAS, Nephi City wishes to limit the excessive use of water for data center projects, and
institute requirements for data center projects to provide for their own water resources during the
development process.
NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the City Council of Nephi City, UT as follows:
SECTION 1:

Repealer. If any provisions of the municipal code previously adopted are

inconsistent herewith they are hereby repealed.
SECTION 2: Amendment. Section "10.2.2 " is hereby amended as follows.
...
CULTURAL, CIVIC SERVICES: A ... library or reading room.
DAIRY: A commercial establishment ... sale of dairy products.
DATA CENTER - A facility or complex that houses computing and networking equipment, along
with storage and management systems, to support the storage, processing, and distribution of digital
data and applications. A data center typically features high-performance servers, storage arrays,
networking equipment, cooling systems, and power backup solutions to ensure uninterrupted
operations. Data centers may include server rooms, or IT operations areas to monitor, and maintain
the computing and networking equipment.
DATA CENTER – ACCESSORY BUILDING(S), STRUCTURES, AND USES: A subordinate,
supportive building, structure, or use, customarily incidental to any main use or buildings, located
upon the same lot, and only available for employee use that may include, but is not limited to:
1. Daycare,

Page 2, Ordinance 12-02-2025

2. Cafeteria,
3. Medical office,
4. Offices;
5. Recreation facilities such as a gym, health spa, or workout studio;
6. Site improvements;
7. Temporary construction yards, and trailers to be removed upon completion of a
construction project.
DATA CENTER - BACKUP UTILITY GENERATION: means an on-site, independent power
source and system, that automatically activates to provide electricity during a main electric power line
outage, ensuring continuous operation of critical IT equipment and infrastructure. The system may
consist of generators (including diesel fueled), battery energy storage systems (BESS), automated
transfer switches, and UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supply) systems with batteries, or any other type
of backup system which can provide immediate, short-term power until the main power grid comes
back on line and functional. This ensures data integrity, prevents system crashes, and maintains
essential services by bridging the gap between the outage of the primary utility power and the startup
of the backup generator.
DATA CENTER - COMPLEX: a specialized, secure, facility or a complex of multiple data center
main and accessory and buildings, and their associated site improvements, support structures, and
utilities that houses the critical IT infrastructure, such as servers, storage systems, and networking
equipment, along with essential supporting systems like power, cooling, and security, to store, process,
manage, and deliver data and applications for an organization or a cloud service provider. Also, all
data center site improvements, support structures, and on-site utilities necessary to support the
operations of the data center.
DATA CENTER - MAIN BUILDING(S): are the building facilities that house a vast array of
interconnected computing and networking equipment, including servers, storage, and networking gear,
along with the essential infrastructure, such as cooling, power, and security systems needed to reliably
operate and secure an organization's critical data and applications. It acts as the central hub for an
organization's IT operations, supporting the storage, processing, and delivery of data and services.
DATA CENTER - SITE IMPROVEMENTS: are the physical buildings, structures, or infrastructure
with designed and installed improvement upgrades and enhancements to the real property surrounding
a data center as part of a data center complex to enhance capacity, performance, sustainability, and
redundancy to meet the needs of artificial intelligence (AI), inference, and cloud availability services,
such as massive power, connectivity, security, on-site power generation and storage, backup power,
cooling systems, water management, air quality and noise control, and enhancing visual appeal. Some
improvements may include, but are not limited to:
1. Automatic Transfer Switches (ATS) Systems;
2. Backup Utility Generation (BUS);
3. Battery energy storage system(s) (BESS) and facilities;
4. Chillers/cooling systems;
5. Electric power facilities such as , lines, plant, or substation;
6. Fencing, security

Page 3, Ordinance 12-02-2025

7. Fiber-based broadband infrastructure;
8. Generators, including diesel fueled;
9. Natural gas facilities such as, lines, plant, power plant, or substation (compressor
or regulator);
10. Parking areas, lots, or structures for employee and visitor parking, in compliance with
Section 11.6.8 of this code;
11. Loading areas, lots, or structures for large trucks and equipment in compliance with
Section 11.6.8 of this code;
12. Maintenance facilities
13. Solar energy project
14. Uninterruptible power supply (UPS) system
15. Utilities, public and private
DAYCARE, EMPLOYER 1 : Group daycare ... premises of the employer.
DAYCARE, FAMILY 2 : The keeping ... the state of Utah.
...
DWELLING UNIT: A single ... a single family dwelling.
ELDERLY PERSON: A person ... years old or older.
ELECTRIC POWER FACILITY: means all conduits, ducts, or other devices, materials, apparatus or
property necessary to the generation, transmission, or distribution of electric power and energy.
ELECTRIC POWER LINE(S): means transmission and/or distribution lines of any capacity, wires,
conductors, structures, towers, and cables, together with ancillary systems such as, without limitation,
switch gear, transformers, and control systems, and all related equipment and fixtures used in the
transmission of electric power. Power Lines do not include Electrical Substations.
ELECTRIC POWER PLANT: includes all real estate, fixtures, and personal property owned,
controlled, operated, or managed in connection with or to facilitate the production, generation,
transmission, delivery, or furnishing of electricity for light, heat, or power, and all conduits, ducts, or
other devices, materials, apparatus, or property for containing, holding, or carrying conductors used
or to be used for the transmission of electricity for light, heat, or power.
ELECTRIC POWER SUBSTATION: means a facility containing electric supply equipment for the
purpose of switching, regulating, transforming, or otherwise modifying the characteristics of
electricity, including electrical equipment, such as transformers, circuit breakers, voltage regulating
equipment, buses, switches, and other related equipment.
FAMILY: means a group ... duly authorized custodial relationship.
FENCE: a physical barrier ... area of storage, etc.
FENCE, SECURITY: a physical barrier designed to prevent or delay unauthorized access to a
property or area, for the purpose of safeguarding personnel, equipment, and assets from theft,
damage, and intrusion, and may incorporate walls with anti-climb design features, heavy-duty
materials, and sometimes integrated security systems including gates, guard stations, and security
cameras. Security fences should generally be no higher than a maximum of twelve (12) feet, but may
be allowed to be taller as allowed by the DRC during site plan review.
FIBER-BASED BROADBAND INFRASTRUCTURE: is a network of high-capacity, fiber optic

Page 4, Ordinance 12-02-2025

cables that transmit data as light signals, providing the high-speed, low-latency, superior bandwidth,
enhanced security, energy efficiency, and reliable connectivity that data centers need to process, store,
and distribute massive amounts of information efficiently for demanding applications like cloud
computing, artificial intelligence, and big data analytics both within the facility and to external users
and other data centers, global networks, and the wider internet. Key components can include, but are
not limited to: fiber optic cables, multimode fiber, single-mode fiber, transceivers, switches and
routers, connectors and patch panels, and dark fiber (unused fiber) that a data center can lease or
own.
FRONTAGE: The length of ... side of a street.
GARAGE, COMMERCIAL: A building ... or without a fee.
...
MORTUARY, FUNERAL HOME: An ... and related accessory uses.
MOTEL: A building or ... or storage immediately accessible.
NATURAL GAS FACILITY: means a pipe, main, conductor, or other facility or fixture used to
carry natural gas.
NATURAL GAS LINE(S): includes both natural gas main and service lines.
NATURAL GAS LINE(S) (MAIN): means a natural gas distribution pipeline that delivers natural
gas to another natural gas distribution supply line, or to a natural gas service line, and does not
include a Natural Gas Service Line.
NATURAL GAS LINE(S) (SERVICE): means a natural gas pipeline that carries natural gas from a
natural gas main to a meter for use by the ultimate consumer.
NATURAL GAS PLANT (OR MANUFACTURED GAS): includes all real estate, fixtures, and
personal property owned, controlled, operated, or managed in connection with or to facilitate the
production, generation, transmission, delivery, or furnishing of gas, natural or manufactured, for light,
heat, or power.
NATURAL GAS POWER PLANT: means a facility designed and used for converting natural gas
into electricity, together with all ancillary systems and infrastructure for cooling, emissions controls,
and the delivery and storage of natural gas. A Natural Gas Power Plant does not include facilities for
the extraction or refinement of natural gas but may include Power Lines.
NATURAL GAS SUBSTATION: means either a compressor station or a regulator station used in
the natural gas pipeline network to control the pressure and flow of gas from production wells to
consumers. Compressor stations use turbines to boost gas pressure for long-distance transport, while
regulator stations, or “city gates”, manage gas pressure when the distribution utility receives the gas
from the main pipeline.
NATURAL WATERWAYS: Those areas, ... by the building inspector.
NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURE: A structure that:
...
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): ... or offered for rent.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Nephi City planning commission.
POWER LINES: (see Electric Power Lines).
PRIMARY (PRINCIPAL) RESIDENCE: The ... year for any individual.

Page 5, Ordinance 12-02-2025

PUBLIC HEARING: A hearing ... subject of the hearing.
...
SIGN, WALL: A sign ... the wall or facing.
SIGN, WINDOW: A sign ... outside of the building.
SOLAR ENERGY PROJECT: means a project that generates electric energy by converting sunlight,
whether by solar devices or other conversion technology, for the sale, delivery, transmission, or
consumption of the generated energy by more than one end-user or by an end-user other than the
owner or operator of the property on which the solar energy system is constructed and operated. A
Solar Energy Project may include one or more Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS), Electric Power
Substations, and/or Electric Power Lines.
SKATING RINK: A place, ... as a secondary activity.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached ... remuneration, hire or sale.
...
USE: The activities occurring ... including all accessory uses.
USE, ACCESSORY: A subordinate ... by the main use.
UTILITIES (PUBLIC OR PRIVATE): including, but not limited to:
a.
b.

Electric power facility
Electric power line(s), including transmission and distribution lines;

c.

Electric power plant;

d.

Electric power substation;

e.
f.

Natural gas facility;
Natural gas lines, including main and service lines;

g.

Natural gas plant, or manufactured gas;

h.

Natural gas power plant;

i.
j.

Natural gas substation;
Sewer (wastewater) system;

k.

Solar project

m. Water (culinary) system;
WASTEWATER SYSTEM: means any sewer, sewage system, sewage treatment facility, lagoon,
sewage collection facility and system and related pipelines, and all similar systems, works, and facilities
necessary or desirable to collect, hold, cleanse, or purify any sewage or other polluted waters, and
related structures and facilities.
WATER SYSTEM (CULINARY): includes all tanks, reservoirs, tunnels, shafts, dams, dikes, head
gates, pipes, flumes, canals, valves, hydrants structures, and appliances, and all other real estate,
fixtures, and personal property owned, controlled, operated, or managed in connection with or to
facilitate the diversion, development, storage, supply, distribution, sale, furnishing, carriage,
appointment, apportionment, or measurement of water for power, fire protection, irrigation,
reclamation, or manufacturing, or for municipal, domestic, or other beneficial use. However, “water
system” does not include private irrigation companies engaged in distributing water only to their
stockholders.
WHOLESALE, WAREHOUSE, STORAGE: A ... storage space is rented.

Page 6, Ordinance 12-02-2025

YARD: An open, unoccupied ... provided in this title.
...
SECTION 3: Amendment. Section "10.9D.1 Purpose" is hereby amended as follows.
A. Industrial 4 Zone (ID4) is established to create areas in the city where the use of data centers,
and associated support uses may be permitted by right and located.
B. With the goal of integrating these facilities into the community by balancing their unique
needs with the surrounding environment and other land uses.
C. And, choosing locations for this zone and use that is intended to blend with adjacent
industrial uses, and be reasonably dispersed throughout the community.
D. Also, to protect residential and commercial land uses in the vicinity from noise, and other
disturbances, or environmental impacts to ensure compatibility with the community as a whole.
HISTORY:
SECTION 4: Amendment. Section "10.9D.2 Use Regulations" is hereby amended as follows.
A. Permitted Uses: In the Industrial 4 Zone (ID4), no building, land, or use shall be constructed,
changed or expanded, which is arranged, intended, or designed to be used for anything other than one
or more of the following uses.
B. All uses listed are permitted by right, and all uses not listed are disallowed, see Definition
Section 10.2.2 for detailed descriptions:
1. Data Center Accessory Buildings and Uses
2. Data Center Main Buildings
3. Data Center Site Improvements or Structures
4. Utilities (Public and Private), however creating power from wind generation is prohibited,
and not included in this permitted by right use section, but power used from wind generation
conducted outside of the city boundaries is included in this section, however, wind power may be
delivered and consumed at any of the listed permitted uses.
HISTORY:
SECTION 5:

Amendment. Section "10.9D.3 Lot Size (Area), and Density Regulations" is

hereby amended as follows.
A. Lot Size (Area) and Density: The minimum lot size (area) for a parcel or lot in the Industrial 4
Zone (ID4) shall be not less than ten (10) acres, or approximately 435,600 square feet per data center
complex, and less than one-half (1/2) acre, or approximately 21,780 square feet per parcel or lot for all
other industrial uses. The minimum density of structure to land may vary.
B. Any industrial or data complex in the zone may allow multiple industrial buildings or
structures on any one parcel or lot, but a notice may be filed at the Juab County Recorder's Office by
the city that includes an approved site plan of the complex for reference, and states that, "This site

Page 7, Ordinance 12-02-2025

plan was approved in it's entirety, and no land subdivision of the property, with or without separate
structures is allowed for this site, unless the property owner's first adhere to the Nephi City
Subdivision, Site Plan, and Land Development Regulations found in Title 11 of their code".
HISTORY:
SECTION 6: Enactment. Section "10.9D.4 Frontage Regulations" is hereby enacted as follows.
A. The minimum width of any lot or parcel for industrial development in the Industrial 4 Zone
(ID4) shall be one-hundred, forty (140) feet at the required front setback line.
HISTORY:
SECTION 7: Amendment. Section "10.9D.5 Yard Setback Regulations - Main Buildings" is
hereby amended as follows.
A. All Front, Rear, and Side Yards for all Main Buildings in the ID4 Zone shall be setback from
all property boundaries:
1. One, and one-half (1 ½) feet for every foot in the building's height.
2. With a minimum setback of fifty (50) feet.
3. Setback shall be measured from the outside wall on the main floor of the structure to the
property line.
B. Separation from Main Buildings: There shall be a minimum of fifty (50) feet of separation
between the closest point of any accessory building and any main building, or other accessory building
as measured from the outside wall of the main floor of both structures.
HISTORY:
SECTION 8: Amendment. Section "10.9D.6 Yard Setback Regulations - Accessory Buildings" is
hereby amended as follows.
A. All Front, Rear, and Side Yards for all Accessory Buildings in the ID4 Zone shall be setback:
1. A minimum of twenty-six (26) feet from any property line.
2. Setbacks shall be measured from the outside wall on the main floor of the structure to the
property line.
B. Separation from Main Buildings:
1. There shall be a minimum of fifty (50) feet of separation between the closest point of any
accessory building and any main building, or
2. Ten (10) feet between one another for all accessory buildings,
3. As measured from the outside wall of the main floor of both structures.
HISTORY:
SECTION 9: Amendment. Section "10.9D.7 Building Height and Size Regulations" is hereby
amended as follows.

Page 8, Ordinance 12-02-2025

A. No main building in the ID4 zone shall be erected to a height greater than one-hundred (100)
feet, unless agreed to through a development agreement with Nephi City that:
1. A public hearing is held for; and
2. The Planning Commission reviews, and gives a recommendation; and
3. The City Council approves.
B. No accessory building in the ID4 zone shall be erected to a height greater than thirty-five (35)
feet.
C. An exception may be made for appurtenant structures to both a main or accessory building
such, but not limited to, a chimney or stack for gas exhaust emissions that may be allowed through the
site plan process by the Development Review Committee (DRC).
HISTORY:
SECTION 10: Amendment. Section "10.9D.8 Project Approval and Development" is hereby
amended as follows.
A. All development activities in Nephi City must conform with Title 11 requirements
1. Air quality compliance: Any main or accessory support use related to a data center's
functionality, that has open air emissions, that would require an air quality permit or notice issued by
the Utah Division of Air Quality shall obtain a permit prior to any site plan approval.
2. E-waste: all electronic waste such as servers, computers, hardware, support systems shall
be taken out of Nephi City boundaries to be recycled.
3. Environmental: all environmental considerations such as noise, air quality, smell, or
hazardous materials for any project in the ID4 zone including, subdivision, site plan, or other land
development shall comply with considerations for health, safety, and welfare in Section 11.6.12.A.5 of
this code.
4. General on-site lighting: all lighting for any project for a subdivision, site plan, or other
land development in the ID4 zone shall comply with Title 11 of this code.
5. Landscaping: all site landscaping shall comply with the requirements for land
development found in Title 11 of this code. All approvals for subdivision, site plan, and land
development in the ID4 zone are subject to Title 11 of this code.
6. Nuisance compliance: uses in the ID4 zone shall not constitute a nuisance, and shall
comply with Section 4.2 Nuisances and Weed Control of this code.
7. Outdoor on-site lighting: outdoor lighting in the ID4 zone shall be required to comply
with outdoor lighting standards found in Section 11.6.3 of this code.
8. Parking and loading: all parking and loading facilities shall comply with requirements of
Section 11.6.8 of this code.
9. Water Usage: all Data Center Facilities shall use air-cooled or closed loop liquid cooling
technology to cool their facilities. Data Center Facilities and Electric Power Plant Facilities shall not
employ open-loop evaporative cooling. Electric Power Plant Facilities shall provide water rights and

Page 9, Ordinance 12-02-2025

water supply to Nephi City for their water demand.
HISTORY:
SECTION 11:

Enactment. Chapter "10.9D Industrial 4 Zone (ID4)" is hereby enacted as

follows.
SECTION 12: Enactment. Section "11.1.6 Applicability" is hereby enacted as follows.
The regulations set for in this title shall apply to all development in Nephi City including, subdivision,
site plan, or any project requiring utility, or other public infrastructure installation or upgrade.
SECTION 13: Amendment. Section "11.2.1 " is hereby amended as follows.
A. The words and ... clearly indicates the contrary.
1. APPEAL AUTHORITY: The person, board, commission, agency, or other body
designated by ordinance to decide an appeal of a decision of a land use application, or a land use
regulation.1. ACCENT OR ARCHITECTURAL LIGHTING: means lighting of building surfaces,
landscape features, statues, and similar items for the purpose of decoration, ornamentation, creation
of visual hierarchy, sense of liveliness, or other purpose unrelated to safety, business operation, or
essential lighting function.
2. AUTHORITY, CULINARY WATER: The department, agency, or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the culinary water system and sources for a
subject property.2. APPEAL AUTHORITY: The person, board, commission, agency, or other body
designated by ordinance to decide an appeal of a decision of a land use application, or a land use
regulation.
3. AUTHORITY, ELECTRIC (POWER): The department, agency, or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the electric power system and sources for a
subject property.3. AUTHORITY, CULINARY WATER: The department, agency, or public entity
with responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the culinary water system and sources for a
subject property.
4. AUTHORITY, FIRE: The department, agency, or public entity with responsibility to
review and approve the feasibility of fire protection and suppression services for a subject property.4.
AUTHORITY, ELECTRIC (POWER): The department, agency, or public entity with responsibility
to review and approve the feasibility of the electric power system and sources for a subject property.
5. AUTHORITY, GAS: The department, agency, or public entity with responsibility to
review and approve the feasibility of the natural gas system and sources for a subject property.5.
AUTHORITY, FIRE: The department, agency, or public entity with responsibility to review and
approve the feasibility of fire protection and suppression services for a subject property.
6. AUTHORITY, SANITARY SEWER: The department, agency or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of a sanitary sewer system or onsite wastewater
system for a subject property.6. AUTHORITY, GAS: The department, agency, or public entity with

Page 10, Ordinance 12-02-2025

responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the natural gas system and sources for a subject
property.
7. AUTHORITY, SANITARY SEWER: The department, agency or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of a sanitary sewer system or onsite wastewater
system for a subject property.
8. AUTHORITY, STREETS AND DRAINAGE: The department, agency or public entity
with responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the street and applicable drainage system
for a subject property.
89. BACKLIGHT: means all the light emanating behind a luminaire from a light fixture.
10. BUG RATING: means backlight, up-light, and glare rating, which exists on a scale of
zero (0) to five (5) - zero (0) being the least mount of these criteria, and five (5) being a greater amount
- and may be used to describe luminaire optical performance in regards to light trespass, sky glow, and
high angle brightness control.
11. CORRELATED COLOR TEMPERATURE (CCT): is a specification of the color
appearance of the light emitted by a lamp, relating its color to the color of light from a reference
source when heated to a particular temperature, measured in degrees Kelvin (K). The CCT rating for a
lamp is a general “warmth” or “coolness” measure of its appearance. Lamps with a CCT rating below
three thousand (3,000) Kelvin (K) are usually considered “warm” sources, while those with a CCT
above three thousand (3,000) Kelvin (K )are usually considered “cool” in appearance.
12. DEED RESTRICTION, LOT: a platted note, demarcation, or designation that:
a. runs with the land; and
b. creates a restriction ... a subdivision plat; or
c. designates a development ... on a subdivision plat.
913. DEED RESTRICTION, PARCEL: a recorded instrument or document that:
a. runs with the land; and
b. creates a restriction ... the recorded document; or
c. designates a development ... in the recorded document.
1014. DEVELOPER: Any person, including a corporate person, who undertakes to develop
land, including subdivisions, site plans, or development activities.
1115. DEVELOPMENT (OR DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY): Pursuant to UCA § 10-9a103 (11) as amended:
a. any construction or ... need for public facilities;
b. any change in ... for public facilities; or
c. any change in ... need for public facilities.
1216. DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A written agreement or amendment to a written
agreement between the City and one or more parties that regulates or controls the use or development
of a specific area of land. This does not include an improvement completion assurance. A development
agreement that alters adopted land use regulations must follow the same approval processes as any
land use amendment would be required to adhere to in accordance with UCA § 10-9a-502 as amended,
and Nephi City Code.
1317. DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITEE (DRC): an individual, board, commission,

Page 11, Ordinance 12-02-2025

agency, or body, designated by the City Council to act upon a land use development application (See
"Land Use Authority").
1418. DIRECT ILLUMINATION: means the area of intentional illumination emanating
from a fixture generally formulated by shielding depth, illumination width, distance, and angle of
illumination field, respective to the height and location of the illumination source, in context of
property location and grade. This illumination pattern is typically represented by the high intensity
cone of light ten (10) percent or greater, emanating and expanding outward from the illumination
source. This area is in contrast to the area outside of this high intensity cone, separately defined as
"light spill". Direct illumination shall be generally interpreted utilizing this formulation by the city
staff.
19. EASEMENT: That portion of a lot or parcel reserved or granted for a specific present
or future use by a person or agency other than the legal owner or owners of said property or
properties. The easement may be for use under, on the surface, or above said property.
1520. EASEMENT, (GENERAL) PUBLIC UTILITY (PUE): pursuant to UCA § 54-3-27
as amended means the area on a recorded plat map or other recorded document that is dedicated to
the use and installation of public utility facilities.
a. A public utility ... a public utility with:
(1) the right to ... public utility facilities; and
...
h. A gas corporation's, ... has under the easement.
i. Nothing in this ... as provided by law.
1621. EASEMENT, PROTECTED UTILITY EASEMENT: is a recorded easement or
right-of-way that is:
a. for the use ... a utility facility, and
b. the ownership of ... by any lawful means.
1722. EASEMENT, (MUNICIPAL) NEPHI CITY UTILITY (NCUE): an easement that:
a. is created or ... for public use; and
b. is not a ... § 54-3-27 as amended;
...
e. may be located ... for public use; and
f. may include an ... a specified public utility.
1823. FLOOD PLAIN: land that:
a. is within the ... Management Agency (FEMA); or
b. has not been ... plain designated by FEMA.
1924. FLOODLIGHT: means a fixture or bulb designed to “flood” an area with light. A
specific form of bulb or fixture designed to direct its output in a specific direction. Such bulbs are
often designated by the manufacturer in regards to outdoor lighting.
25. FULLY SHIELDED FIXTURE: means an outdoor light fixture constructed and
mounted so that the installed fixture emits no light above the horizontal plane. Where a light
manufacturer provides a BUG rating, the up-light rating (U) must equal zero (0). Fully shielded light
fixtures must be shielded in and of themselves; a light fixture must have the top and sides made of

Page 12, Ordinance 12-02-2025

opaque material such that light only escapes through the bottom of the fixture. Fixtures with
translucent or transparent sides, or sides with perforations or slits, do not qualify as fully
shielded. Any glass or diffuser on the bottom of the fixture must be flush with the fixture (no drop
lenses). Surrounding structures, like canopies, eaves, and patio covers, are not to be considered when
determining if the fixture is fully shielded, unless specifically allowed at the time of site plan review
with city staff. Fully shielded fixtures must be appropriately mounted so that the shielding prevents
light from escaping above the horizontal plane and all light is directed downward.
26. GEOLOGIC HAZARD: Means:
a. a surface fault rupture;
b. shallow groundwater;
...
g. a rock fall; or
h. any other geologic ... damage of real property
2027. GEOLOGIC HAZARD AREA: an area that:
a. is designated by ... for geologic hazard; or
b. has not been ... designated geologic hazard area.
2128. FULL CUT-OFF LIGHT FIXTURE: A light fixture having zero (0) light emitted
above the light's horizontal plane.
29. GLARE: means excessive, uncomfortable brightness from unshielded light fixtures
caused by the light source itself being too bright, or positioned poorly in the direct field of vision, or
by light reflecting off other surfaces that causes visual discomfort. It is a form of light pollution which
causes annoyance, discomfort, or a notable reduced visibility or visual performance.
30. HORIZONTAL PLANE: the imaginary flat line at the level of a light source that
represents the boundary below which all light must be directed. A fixture with no light emitting above
the horizontal plane would be called a "full cut-off" fixture meant to prevent light pollution.
31. HOOKUP FEE: fee for the installation and inspection of any pipe, line, meter, or
appurtenance that connects to a municipal water, sewer, storm water, power, or other utility system.
2232. IMPACT FEE: payment of money imposed under UCA § Title 11, Chapter 36a,
Impact Fees Act, or as amended
2333. IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCE: surety bond, letter of credit,
financial institution bond, cash, or other equivalent security required by the city to guarantee the
proper completion of an infrastructure or landscaping improvement required as a condition in order
to record a subdivision plat, or conduct a development activity on a property.
2434. IMPROVEMENT WARRANTY: applicant's unconditional warranty that the
applicant's installed and accepted infrastructure improvement, including landscaping:
a. complies with the ... materials, and workmanship; and
b. will not fail ... the improvement warranty period.
2535. IMPROVEMENT WARRANTY PERIOD: period of time no later than one year
after the city's acceptance of required infrastructure, or landscaping, unless the city:
a. determines for good ... safety, and welfare; and
b. has substantial evidence, on record;

Page 13, Ordinance 12-02-2025

(1) of prior poor ... the applicant; or
(2) that the area ... mitigate the suspect soil.
2636. INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS: means permanent infrastructure, whether
private or public, that is essential for the public health and safety or that:
a. is required for human occupation; and
b. an applicant must install :
...
(B) obtaining a building permit; or
(C) any development activity.
2737. INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT PLANS: civil engineering plans associated
with required infrastructure improvements, and municipally controlled utilities, that are required for a
subdivision, site plan, or other development activity.
2838. INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS FOR ACCEPTING A BUILDING
PERMIT APPLICATION, MINIMUM LEVEL: the minimum level of infrastructure improvements
that are required to by physically installed, approved, and accepted by the city before a building
permit may be applied for includes:
a. Culinary water service;
b. Electric service;
...
d. Sanitary sewer; and
e. Road base to City specifications;
2939. INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS FOR RECORDING A SUBDIVISION,
MINIMUM LEVEL: means the minimum level of infrastructure improvements that are required to be
either:
a. physically installed, approved, ... by the city; or
b. are guaranteed with ... 11.8 "Guarantee of Improvements";
...
(6) All other code ... pertinent to the project.
d. A developer may ... to record a subdivision.
3040. INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED: as it relates to signs, means any sign which has a
light source entirely enclosed within the sign and not directly visible to the eye.
41. LAND USE APPLICANT: a property owner, or the property owner's designee
(developer) who submits a land use application regarding the property owner's land.
3142. LAND USE APPLICATION: application required by the city, and submitted by a
land use applicant, to obtain a legislative land use decision.
3243. LAND USE AUTHORITY, ADMINISTRATIVE: pursuant to UCA 10-9a-604.1, as
amended, administrative land use authority means:
a. an individual, board, ... or a planning commission.
b. does not include ... the city council; but
c. a council member ... land use development decisions.
3344. LAND USE AUTHORITY, LEGISLATIVE: pursuant to UCA 10-9a-103 (31), as

Page 14, Ordinance 12-02-2025

amended, a legislative land use authority means:
a. a person, board, ... land use application; or
b. if the city ... be the city council
3445. LAND USE DECISION:
a. Means a legislative ... or appeal authority regarding:
b. a land use permit; or
c. a land use application
3546.

LAND

USE

DEVELOPMENT

APPLICANT

(OR

DEVELOPMENT

APPLICANT): a property owner, or the property owner's designee (developer) who submits a land use
development application regarding the property owner's land.
3647. LAND USE DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION (OR DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATION): application required by the city and submitted by a developer to obtain an
administrative land use development decision; however, this does not mean an application to
legislatively enact, amend, or repeal a land use regulation.
3748. LAND USE PERMIT: a permit issued by the land use authority for the purpose of
allowing a land use application.
3849. LAND USE REGULATION: Means:
a. A legislative decision ... or development of land;
b. includes the adoption ... the zoning code; and
...
(A) increase a land ... the existing specification; or
(B) impact a land ... applicant's use of land
3950. LAND USE DEVELOPMENT DECISION:
a. Means an administrative ... or appeal authority regarding:
(1) a land use development permit; or
...
b. in making a ... of land use regulations.
c. If a land ... land use development application.
4051. LAND USE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: a permit issued by a land use development
authority for the purpose of allowing a land use development application.
4152. LARGE-LOT SUBDIVISION: A large-lot subdivision is a proposed subdivision
containing at least fifteen (15) developable acres where the proposed lots are one acre in size or
greater.
4253. LEGISLATIVE BODY: The Nephi City Council.
4354. LIGHT POLLUTION: means any adverse effect of manmade light. Often used to
denote "skyglow" from developed areas, but also includes glare, light trespass, visual clutter and other
adverse effects of lighting.
55. LIGHT SOURCE: means the part of a lighting fixture that produces light, e.g., the
bulb, lamp, or chips on board.
56. LIGHT TRESPASS: means direct illumination that falls beyond the boundaries of the
property where it originates.

Page 15, Ordinance 12-02-2025

57. LOT: a tract of land, regardless of any label, that is created by and shown on a
subdivision plat that has been recorded in the office of the county recorder.
4458. LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT: Relocation of a lot line boundary between adjoining
lots or between a lot and adjoining parcels in accordance with UCA § 10-9a-608:
(1) whether or not ... the same subdivision; and
(2) with the consent ... owners of record; and
(3) does not mean ... or subdivision amendment; and
(4) does not include ... Department of Transportation (UDOT)
4559. LUMEN: means a unit of luminous flux equal to the light emitted by a uniform point
source of one candle intensity. Lumens refers to the amount of light emitted by a bulb (more lumens
equates to brighter light).
60. LUMINAIRE: means a complete electric light unit including the lamp and all
components directly associated with the distribution, positioning, and protection of the light unit, but
it does not include the support components, such as an arm, tendon, or pole; the fasteners used to
secure the luminaire; control or security devices; or power supply conductors.
61. MANUFACTURER'S CATALOG CUTS: means a publication or other printed
material of a bulb or lighting manufacturer offering visual and technical information about a lighting
fixture or bulb.
62. MEETING, CONCEPT PLAN: A pre-application meeting that is requested by an
applicant to meet with city designated staff to discuss a concept plan for a subdivision, site plan, or
other development activity. The city must schedule a meeting 15 business days after the request. At the
pre-application meeting, the staff shall provide or have available on the municipal website the
following:
a. copies of applicable land use regulations
b. a complete list ... required for the project
...
d. feedback on the concept plan
e. this meeting does ... qualify for project vesting.
4663. MEETING, FINAL PLAT: An informal meeting that includes designated city staff,
may include county representatives from the Juab County Recorder's Office, the developer, or their
engineer, architect, surveyor, or other appropriate party, and does not have to be conducted in person
to finalize all portions of the plat for recording in the County recorder's office for the purpose of
ensuring:
a. all adjacent landowners ... their respective parcel numbers,
b. the legal description ... appropriate, industry standard level,
...
f. all lots are ... and are numbered; and
g. adhere to all ... Juab County Recorder's Office.
4764. MEETING, PRE-APPLICATION: See definition of Meeting, Concept Plan
4865. MEETING, PRELIMINARY PLAT (OR DEVELOPMENT REVIEW): a meeting
that may include only the land use authority and designated city staff, or may also include the

Page 16, Ordinance 12-02-2025

developer to review and give feedback on preliminary subdivision, site plan, or other development
activity plans through the four maximum review cycles described in NCC Subsection 11.5.2.
4966. NET ACRE: means a gross acre excluding: public rights-of-way, lands with natural
slopes greater than thirty percent, geohazard areas, or other unbuildable areas.
67. OFF-SITE FACILITIES: Facilities designed or located so as to serve the subject
property and/or other property outside of the boundaries of the subdivision, site plan, or other
development activity, usually lying between the development and existing facilities.
5068. ON-SITE FACILITIES: Facilities installed within or on the perimeter of the
subdivision, site plan, or other development activity.
5169. OUTDOOR LIGHT FIXTURE: means a complete lighting unit consisting of a
lamp(s) and ballast(s) (when applicable), together with the parts designed to distribute the light, to
position and protect the lamps, and to connect the lamps to the power supply, Also known as a
luminaire, or simply as a light fixture.
70. PARCEL: any real property that is not a lot.
5271. PARCEL, ORIGINAL: A parcel that exists prior to completing the required
subdivision process to create lots, or a parcel that is exempt from the subdivision process per NCC
Subsection 11.3.2 prior to its exempted property division.
5372. PARCEL OF ORIGIN OR PARENT (PARCEL): A parcel of property that existed
in the same size, course, boundaries, or description prior to Nephi City adopting a subdivision
ordinance, although ownership may change.
5473. PARCEL, REMAINDER: A portion of an original parcel that remains undeveloped
when a phased subdivision is completed that is anticipated for a future land use approval, does not
confer any land use approval by its division, and has not yet been approved by the land use authority,
this parcel remains restricted, and may not apply for or receive a building permit until the subdivision
process is completed.
5574. PERSON: an individual, corporation, partnership, organization, association, trust,
governmental agency, or any other legal entity.
5675. PLAT: A shortened version of referring to either a subdivision, preliminary, final, or
recordable plat.
5776. PLAT, FINAL: A final drawing prepared by a licensed engineer or land surveyor, to
scale, representing the land division proposed to be prepared for filing with the Juab County Recorder
that is in compliance with all the requirements set forth in this title and the Nephi City Title 10 Land
Use Regulations, as well as any requirements by the Juab County Recorder.
5877. PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A preliminary drawing prepared by a licensed engineer or
land surveyor, to scale, representing a proposal to subdivide a tract, lot, or parcel of land and meeting
the minimum preliminary plat requirements of this title.
5978. PLAT, RECORDABLE: A final drawing prepared by a licensed engineer or land
surveyor, to scale, representing the land division proposed that has been approved by Nephi City in
accordance with the requirements of this title, and with §10-9a-603 or §57-8-13 of Utah State Code (as
amended), including the proper signatures by the city, and the owner(s) of record, that have been
properly notarized as provided by law.

Page 17, Ordinance 12-02-2025

6079. PLAT, SUBDIVISION: An instrument subdividing property into lots as depicted on
a map or other graphic representation of land that a licensed professional land surveyor makes and
prepares in accordance with §10-9a-603 or §57-8-13 of Utah State Code (as amended).
6180. PLAT, VICINITY OR CONCEPT (PLAN): A drawing showing proposed lots and
streets, within a potential subdivision including the relationship to existing land and streets in the
surrounding area, not required to scale, but with sufficient detail as to show the general size,
configuration, and dimensions of each proposed lot, or street labeled with lot numbers and street
names.
6281. PROPERTY, CONTIGUOUS: property located adjacent and connected to another
property.
6382. PROPERTY, INTERVENING: property located between the existing service facility
or infrastructure and the property under development.
6483. PUBLIC AGENCY: "Public agency" means:
a. the federal government;
b. the state;
c. a county, municipality, ... of the state; or
d. a charter school.
6584. PUBLIC FACILITY: facilities owned by a public agency
6685. PUBLIC HEARING: a meeting that is required to be open to the public under Title
52, Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings Act.
6786. PUBLIC LANDSCAPING IMPROVEMENT: landscaping that an applicant is
required to install to comply with published installation and inspection specifications for public
improvements that:
a. will be dedicated ... by the municipality; or
b. are associated with ... or existing public infrastructure.
6887. PUBLIC MEETING: a hearing at which members of the public are provided a
reasonable opportunity to comment on the subject of the hearing.
6988. PUBLIC STREET: a public right-of-way, including a public: highway, avenue,
boulevard, parkway, road, lane, alley, viaduct, subway, tunnel, bridge, byway, frontage, or other
public transportation easement, or public way.
7089. PUBLIC UTILITY: a utility provided for the public.
7190. RECORD OF SURVEY MAP: a map of a survey of land prepared in accordance
with UCA § 10-9A-603 or 57-8-13 as amended.
7291. REVIEW CYCLE: means the occurrence of:
a. the applicant's submittal ... site plan development application,
b. the city's review ... site plan development application,
...
d. the applicant's reply ... requests for additional information.
e. The review cycle ... § 10-9a-604.2(2) as amended.
7392. ROAD, STREET, OR HIGHWAY, ADJOINING: a street, highway or road that
provides access to another through street.

Page 18, Ordinance 12-02-2025

7493. ROAD, STREET, OR HIGHWAY, ARTERIAL AND COLLECTOR CLASSES:
pursuant to UCA § 72-4-102.5 the following road classes have the same meaning as provided under the
Federal Highway Administration Functional Classification Guidelines:
a. Arterial (Class)
(1) Major Arterial
...
(2) Minor Collector (Class)
c. Principal Arterial Highway (Class)
7594. ROAD, STREET, OR HIGHWAY, ASPHALT WIDTH: The width from asphalt
edge to edge within a road right-of-way.
7695. ROAD, STREET OR HIGHWAY, LOCAL CLASS: a public highway that is not an
arterial or collector highway that is under the jurisdiction of the city or county that:
a. will serve primarily ... areas and property; and
b. is designed to ... or vehicular traffic; and
...
f. has a primary ... complexes, or libraries; and
g. primarily serves traffic ... through several residential areas.
7796. ROAD, STREET, OR ROADWAY, RESIDENTIAL CLASS: a public roadway that
is not an arterial or collector class highway, or a local road that is under the jurisdiction of the city or
county that:
a. will serve primarily ... areas and property; and
b. is designed to ... or vehicular traffic; and
...
f. cannot have a ... complexes, or libraries; and
g. primarily serves traffic ... through several residential areas.
7897. ROAD, STREET, OR HIGHWAY, RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH: the area width of
real property in which the City has a dedicated or acquired right-of-way interest.
7998. SAFETY LIGHTING: means the minimum amount of lighting required for the
purpose of safety, as required or prescribed by standards and regulations specific to the situation, such
as lighting for ingress/egress, doorways, pathways, and driveways.
99. SKYGLOW: means the brightening of the night-time sky resulting from the scattering
and reflection of artificial light by moisture and dust particles in the atmosphere. Skyglow is caused by
light directed or reflected upwards or sideways and reduces one's ability to view the nighttime sky.
100. SPILL LIGHT: means illumination that reaches beyond the outside of the direct
illumination area.
101. SPOTLIGHT: means a fixture or bulb designed to light a small area very brightly. (See
"Floodlight").
102. STATE: includes any department, division, or agency of the State of Utah.
80103. SUBDIVIDER: See definition of developer.
81104. SUBDIVISION: Any land that is divided, re-subdivided, or proposed to be divided
into two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other divisions of land for the purpose, whether

Page 19, Ordinance 12-02-2025

immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on the installment plan or upon any
and all other plans, terms, and conditions; or any development activity that creates additional demand
and need for public facilities.
a. Subdivision includes:
(1) The division or ... parcel or lot; or
...
(10) A deed or ... or highway purpose; or
(11) Any other division ... land authorized by law
82105. SUBDIVISION APPLICATION, FINAL: means a land use application for the
subdivision of land that includes adherence to review process requirements of this Title, except it does
not require a review of a subdivision improvement plan.
83106. SUBDIVISION APPLICATION, PRELIMINARY: means a land use application
for the subdivision of land that includes adherence to review process requirements of this Title,
including without limitation:
a. the submission and ... a subdivision improvement plan;
b. city subdivision ordinance review
...
d. review cycle requirements found in Section 11.5.2
e. compliance with all ... requirements of this title.
84107. SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT PLANS: means the civil engineering plans
associated with required infrastructure improvements and city-controlled utilities required for a
subdivision.
85108. SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE REVIEW: means review to verify that a subdivision
application meets the criteria of the city's ordinances.
86109. SUBDIVISION PLAN REVIEW: means a review of the applicant's subdivision
improvement plans and other aspects of the subdivision application to verify that the application
complies with municipal ordinances and applicable installation standards and inspection specifications
for infrastructure improvements.
87110. SUSPECT SOIL: soil that has:
a. a high susceptibility ... 3% swell potential;
b. bedrock units with ... or swell susceptibility; or
c. gypsiferous silt and ... dissolution and collapse features.
88111. TEMPORARY LIGHTING: means lighting of a nonpermanent nature, not required
for or qualifying as safety lighting, that plugs into an outlet and is not hard-wired.
112. TOTAL LIGHT: means the sum of shielded and unshielded light.
113. TOTAL OUTDOOR LIGHT OUTPUT: means the total amount of light, measured in
lumens, from all installed outdoor light fixtures on a property, using each manufacturer's initial rated
lumen output.
114. UNSHIELDED FIXTURE: means a fixture that has insufficient shielding to prevent
light emission above the horizontal.
115. WATER CONVEYANCE FACILITY: a ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or other

Page 20, Ordinance 12-02-2025

watercourse used to convey water used for irrigation or storm water drainage and any related
easement for the ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or other watercourse. "Water conveyance facility" does
not mean a ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or other watercourse used to convey water used for culinary
or industrial water, or any federal water project facility.
89116. WATER INTEREST: any right to the beneficial use of water, including:
a. each of the ... 73-1-1 as amended; and
b. an ownership interest ... of water represented by:
(1) a contract; or
(2) a share in ... § 73-3-3,5 as amended.
90117. ZONING MAP: a map, adopted as part of a land use ordinance, that depicts land
use zones, overlays, or districts.
...
SECTION 14: Amendment. Section "11.6.3 Electrical - Power & Lighting" is hereby amended as
follows.
11.6.3 Electrical - Power11.6.3 Electrical - Power & Lighting
A.General: All subdivisions, site plans, or other development activity that requires electrical
power service must comply with the requirement found in the Nephi City standard drawings per
11.6.14, and standard specifications per 11.6.15 as well as utility code requirements found in Title 8.
A. Outdoor Lighting Applicability Industrial 4 (ID4) Zone: All on-site lighting for any project
for a subdivision, site plan, or other land development in the ID4 zone for a data center complex, with
associated accessory uses and buildings shall comply with this code.
1. Purpose: The general purpose for the outdoor lighting requirements is to promote the
public health, safety and welfare, and quality of life.
B. Outdoor Lighting - Shielding and trespass requirements.
1. All permanent and temporary outdoor lighting, or light fixture shall use fully shielded
(full cut-off) fixtures and shall be installed so light is directed downward with no light emitted above
the horizontal plane of the fixture. Where a light manufacturer provides a BUG rating, the up-light
rating (U) must equal zero.
2. All light fixtures shall be aimed downward and shielded so that the direct illumination
shall be confined within the boundaries of the property from which it originates.
3. Outdoor light fixtures shall not be aimed onto adjacent properties causing unnecessary
spill light, or glare, except in cases of shared parking, shared pedestrian pathways, or for coordinated
development sites spanning multiple parcels.
4. Light trespass onto adjacent public rights-of-way may be allowed, subject to approval of
the development review committee (DRC).
5. All lighting should avoid backlighting that serves no functional safety lighting purpose.
6. All unshielded fixtures are prohibited, unless excepted by the DRC in site plan review for

Page 21, Ordinance 12-02-2025

a specific purpose.
7. Flood lights and spot lights are prohibited, unless excepted by the DRC in site plan
review for a specific purpose.
8. Temporary Lighting is permitted as long as the total lumen does not exceed twelvethousand (12,000) lumens per fixture.
9. All light sources in a outdoor light fixture shall have their light output softened by
opaque coverings of frosted glass, diffuser panels, heavily patterned metal, or other partially seethrough light mitigating products.
C. Outdoor Lighting - Total light brightness, or output.
1. For developments in the ID4 Data Center Industrial Zone, the total outdoor light output
from any outdoor lighting fixture shall not exceed fifty-thousand (50,000) lumens per developed net
acre.
2. Total outdoor light output exceptions:
a. Street lights used for the express purpose of illumination of public rights-of-way are
excluded from total outdoor light output calculations.
b. A property may exceed the total light output limits if one-hundred (100) percent of
the proposed lighting is comprised of the minimum, qualifying, and required safety lighting, given the
fixture lumens are the minimum required to meet safety illumination standards.
D. Outdoor Lighting - Lighting color.
1. All outdoor lighting shall utilize light sources with correlated color temperature (CCL)
not to exceed three-thousand (3,000) Kelvin (K).
E. Outdoor Lighting - Height Limits.
1. Building mounted fixtures shall be between ten (10) feet and thirty (30) feet high, unless
specifically excepted by the development review committee (DRC) at site plan review.
2. Security lighting should be vandal resistant.
3. Freestanding light fixtures have height limits based on proximity to the property line.
a. A light fixture within fifty (50) feet of any property line shall be no taller than twenty
(20) feet.
b. A light fixture greater than fifty (50) feet, but less than one-hundred (100) feet of any
property line shall be no taller than twenty-five (25) feet.
c. All other light fixtures shall be no taller than thirty (30) feet.
4. Exceptions shall be made for safety lights, and lights required by state or federal sources,
such as light towers on a tall building for FAA purposes.
F. Outdoor Lighting - Other conditions and standards.
1. Lights that utilize dimmers, timers, and motion sensors to ensure lights are only on when
necessary are encouraged.
2. Off-site and skyglow impacts, or light pollution of the lighting should be limited to the
greatest practical extent possible.
3. Accent or architectural lighting should be kept to a minimum, and down-lighting
directional lighting is encouraged.
4. All illuminated signs shall comply with the standards of Section 10.18 Sign Regulations.

Page 22, Ordinance 12-02-2025

G. Outdoor Lighting - Application and review procedures.
1. Plans or drawings indicating the proposed location of lighting fixtures, height of lighting
fixtures on the premises, and type of illumination devices shall be provided during site plan review.
Plans should also include information for lamps, supports, shielding and reflectors used, as well as
installation and electrical details.
2. Illustrations, such as contained in a manufacturer's catalog cuts, shall be provided for
proposed lighting fixtures, or a diagram of all fixtures provided.
3. A photometric plan is required at site plan review showing proposed light fixtures, bulb
wattages, shielding mechanisms.
4. A table showing the total amount of proposed exterior lights, by fixture type, wattage,
lumens, and lamp type, for the purpose of calculating total outdoor lighting output shall be provided
at site plan review.
5. See examples of acceptable and unacceptable lighting fixtures in Figure A below.
FIGURE A: Examples of Acceptable/Unacceptable Lighting Fixtures
The following image has been added:

HISTORY:
Ord. 6-05-07, 6-6-2007; amd. ... 9-21-2021; Ord. 12-17-2024, 12-17-2024
SECTION 15: Amendment. Section "11.6.8 " is hereby amended as follows.
...
TABLE OF PARKING LOT SPACES REQUIRED PER USE
...
Row

Business park

Three (3) spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross
floor area, -or- one and one half (1.5) spaces per
employees at work during the largest shift,
whichever is greater

Row

Contractor's yard/office

One (1) space per 500 square feet of office area

Row

Industrial, data center

One (1) space per employee at work during the
largest shift, plus four (4) additional spaces for
visitors

Row

Industrial, heavy

Two (2) spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor area,
or one (1) space per employee at work during the
largest shift, whichever is greater

Page 23, Ordinance 12-02-2025

Row

Industrial, light

Two (2) spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross
floor area, -or- one and one half (1.5) space per
employee at work during the largest shift,
whichever is greater

...
SECTION 16: Amendment. Section "11.6.12 " is hereby amended as follows.
...
(B) list the use ... calculation was based on
(C) Parking study by ... parking stall number requirements
j. General Area Landscaping: A landscaping design for the site shall be reviewed and
approved by the planning commission at site plan review.
(1) Front, Side, and Rear Yards: At least twenty-five percent (25%) of the total
property that lies within the front, side, and rear yard setback areas, that are visible from any city
street, shall be landscaped, which may be xeriscape.
(A) Planter Strip: A minimum three (3) feet wide planter strip with curbing
shall be placed at the front, side and rear property boundaries. when the following applies:
i. Front yards, and side yards abutting a street must always install this
along the entire length of frontage.
A permanent sprinkling system shall be installed in all required landscaping, except
ii. Interior side yards must only install this, for as far back in depth as the minimum front yard setback
for the zone, unless open to view from the public right-of-way.
iii. Rear yards must only install this if they are open to view from the
public right-of-way.
for approved dry landscaping areas.

iv. Parking areas must install this

as a minimum buffer between the parking lot and any property line, and between any access driveway
unless the driveway is to be used for common access by an adjacent lot, or is a rear yard accessway not
open to view from the public right-of-way.
(1) Front Yard: At least fifty percent (50%) of the front yard (2) Abutting
residential: Irrespective of other requirements, developments abutting residential uses shall have a
minimum of ten (10) feet of perimeter landscaping for only the length of the residential property
abutting the project directly. The landscaping may be xeriscape, but shall include:
(A strip at least

(A) Larger trees with a minimum of one, and a half (1

1/2) inch caliper, planted at thirty (30) feet interval spacing with no tree placed any closer than thirty
(30) feet from an access opening, or driveway.
(B) Shrubs planted to form a buffer between uses that are separated every
three (3) feet wideas measured at the center of the shrubs.
(C) Buffer areas may be approved with reduced landscaping by the

Page 24, Ordinance 12-02-2025

development review committee (DRC) at site plan review, when not open to view from public rights of
way, and where it can be shown that the reduced buffer areas will still conform to the intent of this
title of beautifying the project property, and attempting to buffer adjacent residential uses from
unsightly storage, noise, noxious smells or other nuisance created by a more intensive industrial use.
(3) Other Landscaping:
(A) Along Buildings: Landscaping planters and/or raised sidewalks shall be
installed directly adjacent to main buildings, in conjunction with curbing, with a minimum of a four
(4) inch back and six (6) inch height, and a sidewalk minimum width of four (4) feet, to act as a buffer
between pedestrian, and vehicular travel, and to protect the project main buildings from vehicles.
(B) Along Paving: All landscaped areas abutting any paved area shall be
curbed with a minimum of a four (4) inch back and six (6) inches height.
(C) Berming and Landscaping Height Limit: to ensure safe visibility for
vehicles and pedestrians at street intersections, driveways, and access points landscaping or berming
shall be limited to a height of not more than three and one-half (3.5) feet above the top back-of-curb
elevation of the adjacent roadway. Berming and landscaping limits shall apply within the following
areas:
The landscaping shall occur at the front property line.
i. Driveways and
Access Openings: A minimum clear sight triangle shall be maintained measuring thirty (30) feet along
both sides of the driveway or access point, beginning at the edge of the access opening and extending
30 feet back along the adjacent curb or property line. These two 30 feet setback points shall be
connected to form a triangle, within which the height restriction shall apply.
This standard shall apply to both frontages of a corner lot.

ii. Street

Intersections: At the corner of intersecting streets, a clear
(2)sight Sidetriangle And Rear Yards:
(A) There shall be a minimum of three (3) feet of landscaping between
parking areas and side or rear property lines and a minimum of three (3) feet of landscaping between
an access driveway and a side or rear property line, unless said driveway is to be used for common
access by an adjacent lot. Other side and rear setback areas that are open to view from public rights of
way or from residential property shall also have a minimum of three (3) feet of landscaping; provided,
that one accessway not to exceed twelve (12) feet in width may be allowed to undeveloped property in
the rear of a site.shall be maintained by measuring thirty (30) feet from the point of intersection of the
property lines (or their projections) along both frontages. A straight line connecting these two points
shall form the third leg
(3) Abutting residential: Irrespective of other requirements, developments
abutting residential uses shall have a minimum of ten (10) feet of perimeter landscaping where the
development abuts such residential use and shall have large trees (minimum 11/2 inch caliper), and
shrubs planted to form a buffer between uses. Trees shall be planted at thirty (30) feet spacing and
shrubs on three (3) feet centers.of the triangle. All landscaping or berming within this triangle shall
comply with the 3.5 foot height limit.
Buffer areas may be approved with interval landscaping when not open to view from public rights of
way and where it can be shown that
iii. Exceptions: Trees may be

Page 25, Ordinance 12-02-2025

permitted within the clear sight triangle provided that branches are trimmed to maintain a minimum
clearance of six (6) feet above the adjacent curb grade.
the buffer areas will conform to the intent of this title.

iv. Compliance:

Non-conforming berms or landscaping installed after the adoption of this
(4)code Othershall Landscaping:
(A) Landscaping planters and/or raised sidewalks shall be installed along
buildings and any paved areas.be subject to modification or removal at the owner's expense upon
notification by the city.
(B) All landscaped areas abutting any paved area shall be curbed (minimum
of a 4 inch back and 6 inches high).(D) Trees In Front Yards: Trees shall be required in front yards, at
thirty (30) feet intervals, and shall not be placed any closer than thirty (30) feet from an access area or
driveway.
(C) At intersections of streets, driveways, sidewalks, etc., (E) Xeriscape
Landscaping: All required landscaping areas are allowed to use xeriscape landscaping using limited
lawn, grasses, ground cover, shrubs, vines, trees, and dry landscape materials, such as stone and
decorative rocks.
Landscaping shall be limited to a height of not more than three and one-half feet (3 1/2') above top
back of curb within the area required for minimum sight distances as specified in the geometric design
guide

(F) Native Landscaping: All areas not visible to the public, and not

within the required ten (10) feet landscaped buffer area between adjacent residential uses, may be
allowed to be native landscaping, so long as the natural vegetation is maintained, so as to not to
present a fire hazard.
(AASHTO) for local roads and streets.

(G) Undeveloped adjacent property: on

adjacent land proposed for future phased expansion, the area shall be maintained free of weeds and
trash.
(D) Trees In Front Yards: Trees shall be required in front yards, at thirty
(30) feet intervals in accordance with the street planning guide for arterial and collector streets.(H)
Maintenance of Landscaping:
(5) Other Non-parking Areas:
(A) All unpavedlandscaping

areas not utilized for parking, access or

storage, shall be landscaped utilizing ground cover, shrub and tree materials, and/or dry landscape
materials.
(B) Undeveloped areas proposed for future expansion shall be maintained
freeto ofensure weeds and trash.
(C) Required Planting Areas: The planting of trees, lawn and shrubs, or
other material as approved, is required within appropriate areas, especially along street frontage and
along boundaries that abut residential lots, as provided for herein.
(D) Improvements Specified: When an area in a commercial, industrial or
multi-family residential zone is required to be landscaped by the terms of this title, the requirement
shall be met by the installation and maintenance of improvements as set forth below:the living
materials such as

Page 26, Ordinance 12-02-2025

(E) Lawn and shrubs, or a combination of shrubs, trees, vines or other
growing ground cover shall cover the entire area to be landscapedgrass, except that water surfaces and
dry landscaping may be allowed; providedshrubs, thatcontinue such area shall not comprise more
than twenty percent (20%) of the area required to belive landscaped.
(F) All landscaping established as required by and in conformance to this
section shall be maintained in a manner as to assure the continued growth of living materials placed
therein and the removal of weeds, debris and other matter not consistent with the provisions of this
chapter.and beautify the property, and remains free of weeds and debris.
k. Traffic Study to ... Traffic Congestions: shall consider:
(1) The effect of ... conditions on abutting streets.
...
SECTION 17:

Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this

amendment is declared invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, said portion
shall be severed and such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this amendment.
SECTION 18: Effective Date. This ordinance being necessary for the peace, health, and safety
of Nephi City, shall go into effect at the expiration of the 20th day after publication or posting or the
30th day after final passage as noted below or whichever of said days is the more remote from the date
of passage thereof.
**Signatures On Next Page**

Page 27, Ordinance 12-02-2025

PASSED AND ADOPTED by Nephi City Council this 2nd day of December, 2025.

JUSTIN SEELY, Mayor
Nephi City
Attest:

LESLEE ANDERSON, City Recorder
Nephi City

City Council Vote as Recorded: AYE NAY ABSTAIN ABSENT
Jeramie Callaway

X

Shari Cowan

X

JD Parady

X

Skip F. Worwood
Travis Worwood

X
X

RECORDED this 2nd day of December, 2025.
PUBLISHED OR POSTED this 3rd day of December, 2025.
CERTIFICATE OF PASSAGE AND PUBLICATION OR POSTING
In accordance with Utah Code Annotated §10-3-713, 1953 as amended, I, the City Recorder of Nephi
City, hereby certifies that the foregoing Amendment was duly passed and published or posted at:
1. Utah Public Notice Website
2. City Hall
3. Juab County Building
on the above referenced dates.

LESLEE ANDERSON, City Recorder
Nephi City

