Nephi City
ORDINANCE 12-02-2025 A
ADDING "MODULAR DATA CENTER", AND ASSOCIATED "ACCESSORY USES
AND STRUCTURES" TO THE ID1 ZONE
ADDING "MODULAR DATA CENTER", AND ASSOCIATED "ACCESSORY USES
AND STRUCTURES' TO THE INDUSTRIAL 1 (ID1) ZONE.
WHEREAS, Nephi City wishes to allow for modular data center projects in the Industrial 1
(ID1) zone.
WHEREAS, Nephi City wants to limit excessive water usage as it relates to modular data
centers.
NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the City Council of Nephi City, UT as follows:
SECTION 1:

Repealer. If any provisions of the municipal code previously adopted are

inconsistent herewith they are hereby repealed.
SECTION 2: Amendment. Section "10.2.2 " is hereby amended as follows.
...
CULTURAL, CIVIC SERVICES: A ... library or reading room.
DAIRY: A commercial establishment ... sale of dairy products.
DATA CENTER - a facility or complex that houses computing and networking equipment, along
with storage and management systems, to support the storage, processing, and distribution of digital
data MODULAR: means a facility or group of facilities designed for the housing and operation of
computer servers, networking equipment, data storage systems, and related infrastructure, where the
primary structures are prefabricated, or modular units that are capable of being transported and
assembled on site. Modular data centers shall have a limited:
1. Electrical power capacity allowed on the electricity grid circuit as determined by Nephi
City Electrical Power Superintendent based on available infrastructure.
2. Natural gas capacity allowed on the city natural gas system usage as determined by the
Nephi City Natural Gas Superintendent based on available infrastructure.
3. Sanitary sewer capacity, and applicationsaccess allowed on the city sanitary sewer system
as determined by the Nephi City Sanitary Sewer Superintendent based on available infrastructure, and
discharge parameters.
A Data center typically features high-performance servers, storage arrays, networking equipment,
cooling systems, and power backup solutions to ensure uninterrupted operations.
4. Culinary
water capacity allowed on the city water system usage as determined by the Nephi City Water

Page 2, Ordinance 12-02-2025 A

Superintendent based on available infrastructure. Modular Data Centers shall not employ open-loop
evaporative cooling.
DATA centers may include server rooms, or IT operations areas to monitor, and maintain the
computing and networking equipment.CENTER - MODULAR - ACCESSORY USES AND
STRUCTURES: are support uses and
DATA CENTER – ACCESSORY BUILDING(S), structures, AND USES: A subordinate,
supportive building, structure, or use, customarily incidental to any main use or buildings, located
upon the same lot, and only available for employee use that may include, but is not limited
to:structures such as are customarily incidental to and used in connection with a modular data center,
including but not limited to:
1. Daycare,Battery storage;
2. Cafeteria,Backup generators;
3. MedicalLow-water officeuse cooling and ventilation systems, such as closed, updraft
mechanical coolers;
4. OfficesPower generation equipment;
5. Recreation facilities such as a gym, health spa, or workout studio;Security facilities,
including remotely-manned systems;
6. Site improvementsTransformers;
7.

Temporary construction yards, and trailers to be removed upon completion of a

construction project.Uninterruptible power supply (UPS) systems.
DATA CENTER - BACKUP UTILITY GENERATION: means an on-site, independent power
source and system, that automatically activates to provide electricity during a main electric power line
outage, ensuring continuous operation of critical IT equipment and infrastructure. The system may
consist of generators (including diesel fueled), battery energy storage systems (BESS), automated
transfer switches, and UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supply) systems with batteries, or any other type
of backup system which can provide immediate, short-term power until the main power grid comes
back on line and functional. This ensures data integrity, prevents system crashes, and maintains
essential services by bridging the gap between the outage of the primary utility power and the startup
of the backup generator.
DATA CENTER - COMPLEX: a specialized, secure, facility or a complex of multiple data center
main and accessory and buildings, and their associated site improvements, support structures, and
utilities that houses the critical IT infrastructure, such as servers, storage systems, and networking
equipment, along with essential supporting systems like power, cooling, and security, to store, process,
manage, and deliver data and applications for an organization or a cloud service provider. Also, all
data center site improvements, support structures, and on-site utilities necessary to support the
operations of the data center.
DATA CENTER - MAIN BUILDING(S): are the building facilities that house a vast array of
interconnected computing and networking equipment, including servers, storage, and networking gear,
along with the essential infrastructure, such as cooling, power, and security systems needed to reliably
operate and secure an organization's critical data and applications. It acts as the central hub for an
organization's IT operations, supporting the storage, processing, and delivery of data and services.

Page 3, Ordinance 12-02-2025 A

DATA CENTER - SITE IMPROVEMENTS: are the physical buildings, structures, or infrastructure
with designed and installed improvement upgrades and enhancements to the real property surrounding
a data center as part of a data center complex to enhance capacity, performance, sustainability, and
redundancy to meet the needs of artificial intelligence (AI), inference, and cloud availability services,
such as massive power, connectivity, security, on-site power generation and storage, backup power,
cooling systems, water management, air quality and noise control, and enhancing visual appeal. Some
improvements may include, but are not limited to:
1. Automatic Transfer Switches (ATS) Systems;
2. Backup Utility Generation (BUS);
3. Battery energy storage system(s) (BESS) and facilities;
4. Chillers/cooling systems;
5. Electric power facilities such as , lines, plant, or substation;
6. Fencing, security
7. Fiber-based broadband infrastructure;
8. Generators, including diesel fueled;
9. Natural gas facilities such as, lines, plant, power plant, or substation (compressor
or regulator);
10. Parking areas, lots, or structures for employee and visitor parking, in compliance with
Section 11.6.8 of this code;
11. Loading areas, lots, or structures for large trucks and equipment in compliance with
Section 11.6.8 of this code;
12. Maintenance facilities
13. Solar energy project
14. Uninterruptible power supply (UPS) system
15. Utilities, public and private
DAYCARE, EMPLOYER 1 : Group daycare ... premises of the employer.
DAYCARE, FAMILY 2 : The keeping ... the state of Utah.
...
DWELLING UNIT: A single ... a single family dwelling.
ELDERLY PERSON: A person ... years old or older.
ELECTRIC POWER FACILITY: means all conduits, ducts, or other devices, materials, apparatus or
property necessary to the generation, transmission, or distribution of electric power and energy.
ELECTRIC POWER LINE(S): means transmission and/or distribution lines of any capacity, wires,
conductors, structures, towers, and cables, together with ancillary systems such as, without limitation,
switch gear, transformers, and control systems, and all related equipment and fixtures used in the
transmission of electric power. Power Lines do not include Electrical Substations.
ELECTRIC POWER PLANT: includes all real estate, fixtures, and personal property owned,
controlled, operated, or managed in connection with or to facilitate the production, generation,
transmission, delivery, or furnishing of electricity for light, heat, or power, and all conduits, ducts, or
other devices, materials, apparatus, or property for containing, holding, or carrying conductors used
or to be used for the transmission of electricity for light, heat, or power.

Page 4, Ordinance 12-02-2025 A

ELECTRIC POWER SUBSTATION: means a facility containing electric supply equipment for the
purpose of switching, regulating, transforming, or otherwise modifying the characteristics of
electricity, including electrical equipment, such as transformers, circuit breakers, voltage regulating
equipment, buses, switches, and other related equipment.
FAMILY: means a group ... duly authorized custodial relationship.
FENCE: A physical barrier ... area of storage, etc.
FENCE, SECURITY: a physical barrier designed to prevent or delay unauthorized access to a
property or area, for the purpose of safeguarding personnel, equipment, and assets from theft,
damage, and intrusion, and may incorporate walls with anti-climb design features, heavy-duty
materials, and sometimes integrated security systems including gates, guard stations, and security
cameras. Security fences should generally be no higher than a maximum of twelve (12) feet, but may
be allowed to be taller as allowed by the DRC during site plan review.
FIBER-BASED BROADBAND INFRASTRUCTURE: is a network of high-capacity, fiber optic
cables that transmit data as light signals, providing the high-speed, low-latency, superior bandwidth,
enhanced security, energy efficiency, and reliable connectivity that data centers need to process, store,
and distribute massive amounts of information efficiently for demanding applications like cloud
computing, artificial intelligence, and big data analytics both within the facility and to external users
and other data centers, global networks, and the wider internet. Key components can include, but are
not limited to: fiber optic cables, multimode fiber, single-mode fiber, transceivers, switches and
routers, connectors and patch panels, and dark fiber (unused fiber) that a data center can lease or
own.
FRONTAGE: The length of ... side of a street.
GARAGE, COMMERCIAL: A building ... or without a fee.
...
MORTUARY, FUNERAL HOME: An ... and related accessory uses.
MOTEL: A building or ... or storage immediately accessible.
NATURAL GAS FACILITY: means a pipe, main, conductor, or other facility or fixture used to
carry natural gas.
NATURAL GAS LINE(S): includes both natural gas main and service lines.
NATURAL GAS LINE(S) (MAIN): means a natural gas distribution pipeline that delivers natural
gas to another natural gas distribution supply line, or to a natural gas service line, and does not
include a Natural Gas Service Line.
NATURAL GAS LINE(S) (SERVICE): means a natural gas pipeline that carries natural gas from a
natural gas main to a meter for use by the ultimate consumer.
NATURAL GAS PLANT (OR MANUFACTURED GAS): includes all real estate, fixtures, and
personal property owned, controlled, operated, or managed in connection with or to facilitate the
production, generation, transmission, delivery, or furnishing of gas, natural or manufactured, for light,
heat, or power.
NATURAL GAS POWER PLANT: means a facility designed and used for converting natural gas
into electricity, together with all ancillary systems and infrastructure for cooling, emissions controls,
and the delivery and storage of natural gas. A Natural Gas Power Plant does not include facilities for

Page 5, Ordinance 12-02-2025 A

the extraction or refinement of natural gas but may include Power Lines.
NATURAL GAS SUBSTATION: means either a compressor station or a regulator station used in
the natural gas pipeline network to control the pressure and flow of gas from production wells to
consumers. Compressor stations use turbines to boost gas pressure for long-distance transport, while
regulator stations, or “city gates”, manage gas pressure when the distribution utility receives the gas
from the main pipeline.
NATURAL WATERWAYS: Those areas, ... by the building inspector.
NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURE: A structure that:
...
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): ... or offered for rent.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Nephi City planning commission.
POWER LINES: (see Electric Power Lines).
PRIMARY (PRINCIPAL) RESIDENCE: The ... year for any individual.
PUBLIC HEARING: A hearing ... subject of the hearing.
...
SIGN, WALL: A sign ... the wall or facing.
SIGN, WINDOW: A sign ... outside of the building.
SOLAR ENERGY PROJECT: means a project that generates electric energy by converting sunlight,
whether by solar devices or other conversion technology, for the sale, delivery, transmission, or
consumption of the generated energy by more than one end-user or by an end-user other than the
owner or operator of the property on which the solar energy system is constructed and operated. A
Solar Energy Project may include one or more Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS), Electric Power
Substations, and/or Electric Power Lines.
SKATING RINK: A place, ... as a secondary activity.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached ... remuneration, hire or sale.
...
USE: The activities occurring ... including all accessory uses.
USE, ACCESSORY: A subordinate ... by the main use.
UTILITIES (PUBLIC OR PRIVATE): including, but not limited to:
a. Electric power facility
b.

Electric power line(s), including transmission and distribution lines;

c.

Electric power plant;

d.
e.

Electric power substation;
Natural gas facility;

f.

Natural gas lines, including main and service lines;

g.
h.

Natural gas plant, or manufactured gas;
Natural gas power plant;

i.

Natural gas substation;

j.

Sewer (wastewater) system;

k. Solar project
m. Water (culinary) system;

Page 6, Ordinance 12-02-2025 A

WASTEWATER SYSTEM: means any sewer, sewage system, sewage treatment facility, lagoon,
sewage collection facility and system and related pipelines, and all similar systems, works, and facilities
necessary or desirable to collect, hold, cleanse, or purify any sewage or other polluted waters, and
related structures and facilities.
WATER SYSTEM (CULINARY): includes all tanks, reservoirs, tunnels, shafts, dams, dikes, head
gates, pipes, flumes, canals, valves, hydrants structures, and appliances, and all other real estate,
fixtures, and personal property owned, controlled, operated, or managed in connection with or to
facilitate the diversion, development, storage, supply, distribution, sale, furnishing, carriage,
appointment, apportionment, or measurement of water for power, fire protection, irrigation,
reclamation, or manufacturing, or for municipal, domestic, or other beneficial use. However, “water
system” does not include private irrigation companies engaged in distributing water only to their
stockholders.
WHOLESALE, WAREHOUSE, STORAGE: A ... storage space is rented.
YARD: An open, unoccupied ... provided in this title.
...
SECTION 3: Amendment. Section "10.9A.2 " is hereby amended as follows.
A.

Permitted Uses: In the Industrial Development 1 Zone (ID1), no building, land, or use shall be

constructed, changed or expanded, which is arranged, intended, or designed to be used for anything
other than one or more of the following uses, which may be required to be reasonably dispersed
throughout the community. The following uses shall be permitted by right in the zone, subject to
compliance with all applicable development, performance, and building codes and standards, all other
uses are prohibited:
Auto, truck, recreation vehicle ... equipment sales and rental
...
Coal yard
Convenience goods sales and services
Data Center, Modular
Data Center, Modular - Accessory uses and structures
Daycare, employer
Industrial or research park
...
SECTION 4:

Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this

amendment is declared invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, said portion
shall be severed and such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this amendment.
SECTION 5: Effective Date. This ordinance being necessary for the peace, health, and safety of
Nephi City, shall go into effect at the expiration of the 20th day after publication or posting or the

Page 7, Ordinance 12-02-2025 A

30th day after final passage as noted below or whichever of said days is the more remote from the date
of passage thereof.
**Signatures On Next Page**

Page 8, Ordinance 12-02-2025 A

PASSED AND ADOPTED by Nephi City Council this 2nd day of December, 2025.

JUSTIN SEELY, Mayor
Nephi City
Attest:

LESLEE ANDERSON, City Recorder
Nephi City

City Council Vote as Recorded: AYE NAY ABSTAIN ABSENT
Jeramie Callaway

X

Shari Cowan

X

JD Parady

X

Skip F. Worwood
Travis Worwood

X
X

RECORDED this 2nd day of December, 2025.
PUBLISHED OR POSTED this 3rd day of December, 2025.
CERTIFICATE OF PASSAGE AND PUBLICATION OR POSTING
In accordance with Utah Code Annotated §10-3-713, 1953 as amended, I, the City Recorder of Nephi
City, hereby certifies that the foregoing Amendment was duly passed and published or posted at:
1. Utah Public Notice Website
2. City Hall
3. Juab County Building
on the above referenced dates.

LESLEE ANDERSON, City Recorder
Nephi City

