ORDINANCE NO. 02-07-2023-A

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 10.15.5 OF THE NEPHI CITY CODE,
PROVIDING FOR THE REGULATION OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS WITHIN NEPHI CITY; SEVERABILITY; AND
PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.

WHEREAS, the City Council has the authority to enact ordinances to promote the
health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of Nephi City;

WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of the citizens of Nephi City to regulate recreational
vehicles and recreational vehicle parks; and

WHEREAS, it is appropriate to amend Section 10.15.5 of the Nephi City Code to
provide a more effective and efficient method for regulating recreational vehicles and
recreational vehicle parks; and

WHEREAS, the proposed amendments promote, protect and preserve the health, safety
and welfare of the public, and foster neighborhood stability by preserving the appearance,
character and beauty of the community. as well as protecting property values and the general
welfare of the City and its citizens.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Nephi City, State of
Utah, as follows:

PART ONE: AMENDMENT TO SECTION 15.15.5 OF THE NEPHI CITY CODE.

Section 10.15.5 of the Nephi City Code is repealed in its entirety and is amended to read
as follows:

RV PARKS, LONG AND SHORT TERM:

Recreational vehicle (RV) parks for both long-term and short-term use shall meet the following
additional standards:

A. Ownership & Minimum Size: Each RV park shall have one (1) common owner, and a
minimum size of five (5) acres. Any RV parks operating prior to the adoption of this
ordinance that do not meet the minimum size requirements set forth herein are not
required to meet said minimum size requirements as long as the RV park does not
decrease or increase the acreage of the park as it existed at the time this ordinance was
adopted. However, if at any time after the adoption of this ordinance an RV park reduces
or expands the acreage of its park, then it shall be required to meet the minimum size
requirements set forth herein.

Page 1 Ordinance 02-07-2023-A

Access Roads: Each RV park shall have a hard-surfaced (concrete or asphalt) roadway of
at least twenty-five feet (25°) in width, constructed to city specifications and must serve
each recreational vehicle in the park (twelve feet (12’) wide for one-way streets). Any
RV parks operating prior to the adoption of this ordinance that do not meet the road
requirements set forth herein are not required to meet said road requirements for the
portion of the RV park that existed at the time of the adoption of this ordinance.
However, if any presently existing RV park expands the size of its park or the number of
RVs in the park from what it was at the time this ordinance was adopted, then any
expansion areas of the RV park shall comply with the road requirements set forth herein.

Access: Each RV park shall have access to all RV parks shall be from a dedicated and
approved public street at an approved point or points. No RV space shall have direct
access from a public street.

Parking: Each RV park shall have one (1) hard-surfaced parking space that shall be
provided for each recreational vehicle located in the RV park and at least one (1)
additional hard-surfaced automobile parking spot shall be provided for each RV space or
lot. Any RV parks operating prior to the adoption of this ordinance that do not meet the
parking requirements set forth herein are not required to meet said parking requirements
for the portion of the RV park that existed at the time of the adoption of this ordinance.
However, if any presently existing RV park expands the size of its park or the number of
RVs in the park from what it was at the time this ordinance was adopted, then any
expansion areas of the RV park shall comply with the parking requirements set forth
herein.

Recreation Space: Each RV park having ten (10) or more units shall have at least one
thousand (1,000) square feet of common, usable recreation area. The recreation area
must be landscaped with grass, trees, and/or other vegetation approved by City staff.

Density: The maximum density for a RV park shall not exceed (13) units per gross acre.

Spaces: Each RV space shall have a minimum width of twenty feet (20). All recreational
vehicles shall be able to park in designated spaces, and no portion of a driveway or
roadway may be used for recreational vehicle parking.

Permitted: Only recreational vehicles, travel trailers, motor homes, park models and park
trailers (collectively referred to herein as “recreational vehicle,” “RV” or “unit”) may be
located in an RV park.

Page 2 Ordinance 02-07-2023-A

Minimum Yard Clearances for RV Park Subdivision: Each RV park shall have the
following minimum yard clearences / setbacks:

1. Front or side yard from a public street: twenty feet (20’);

2. Side yard bordering adjacent property: eight feet (8”);

3. Rear yard bordering adjacent property: eight feet (8’);

4, All RVs shall have at least fifteen (15’) feet of spacing between units;

Utilities Required: Each RV parking space shall have connections available for water,
sewer and electricity. All utility connections shall be located underground. All
recreational vehicle parks shall be connected to a public sewer system for all sewer
connections or dump stations.

Service Building: Each RV park shall include a service building containing all sanitary
facilities required by the Utah State Department of Health Code of Recreational Vehicle,
Camp or Trailer Court Sanitation Regulations, and shall provide a dump station for
dependent recreational vehicles. The Service Building requirements of this section
include, but are not limited to, a permanent on-site bathroom facility that contains a toilet,

shower, sink, and other appropriate sanitary items (eg. hand soap, toilet paper, etc.)

Laundry Facilities: Each RV park shall provide an operating on-site laundry facility that
includes at least one (1) clothes washer and one (1) clothes dryer per ten (10) RV spaces.

Outdoor Living Space: Each RV parking space shall include a minimum of three hundred
(300) square feet of “outdoor living” space located adjacent to the RV space. Said
outdoor living space shall be maintained in a clean and weed-free manner and shall be
kept free from garbage or debris of any kind.

Awnings: Only well-maintained factory-installed awnings shall be allowed ona
recreational vehicle in an RV park.

Additional Structures; No permanent additions or structures shall be added to a
recreational vehicle.

Skirting: No skirting is allowed on a recreational vehicle except for skirting specifically
designed and manufactured for the respective recreational vehicle.

Page 3 Ordinance 02-07-2023-A

Minimum Separation: In no case shall a recreational vehicle or any part of it be closer
than fifteen feet (15') to an adjacent recreational vehicle.

Business License & Fee:
l. Annually, the owner of each RV park shall obtain a business license from the City.

2. The business license fee for an RV park is two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00)
a year. This fee may be amended by the City in its approved fee schedule.

3. An RV park may be fined up to one hundred dollars ($100.00) a day for each day
that it operates without a business license.

4. The City may prohibit an RV park from operating anytime the RV park does not
have a current business license.

5. The City may revoke an RV park business license anytime the RV park is in
violation of this code or any other applicable law and the City has given the RV
park written notice of the violation and thirty (30) days to correct the violation.
The City may revoke a RV park business license immediately in the event the
continued operation of the RV park constitutes a serious risk to health and safety
of RV park patrons or the residents of Nephi City. What constitutes a serious
health and safety risk shall be determined the City Council.

6. Once a business license has been revoked, it may not be reinstated until 1) the RV
park is in compliance with this code and all other applicable laws, 2) the RV park
owner has met with the City Council and provided information showing that it has
corrected the problem that led to the revocation of the business license, 3) the RV
park has paid all outstanding fines to the City, and 4) the City Council has
approved the reinstatement or issuance of the RV park business license.

7. If an RV park owner disputes the revocation of its business license or denial of its
business license application, it may appeal the matter to the City Council. The
City Council shall hear the RV park’s appeal within thirty (30) days of the RV
park filing a written appeal with the City. Ifan RV park disagrees with the City
Council’s decision, it may appeal the decision any court of competent jurisdiction.
The RV park is subject to all of the fines, prohibitions, and restrictions of this
code while it is appealing the City’s revocation or denial of its business license.

Renting of RV Spaces: RV Parks shall enter a written rental agreement with each
individual or entity that rents an RV space. The rental agreements shall be for no more
than thirty (30) days. After an individual or entity has leased an RV space for thirty (30)
days, then upon mutual agreement, the RV park and the individual or entity may enter
into another rental agreement for no more than thirty (30) days. There is no limit on the
amount of thirty-day rental agreements an RV park may enter with an individual or entity.

Page 4 Ordinance 02-07-2023-A

Rental Agreements:

1. Each rental agreement for an RV space shall include park rules. The park rules
shall be provided in written form to each person who rents a space in the RV park.
Additionally, park rules shall be posted in a location likely to be seen by
individuals renting a park space.

2. The park rules shall at a minimum state that a recreational vehicle may be
required to leave the RV park anytime the owner or occupants of the recreational
vehicle are in violation of RV park rules.

3. At a minimum, the RV park rental agreement shall state that a recreational vehicle

“ig required to leave the RV park if the owners or occupants of the recreational
vehicle are unreasonably disturbing, are engaging in any criminal activity, or fail
to comply with the terms of City Code.

4. The agreement shall state that a recreational vehicle is not entitled to use an RV
space for more than thirty (30) days, assuming the recreational vehicle has not
been required to leave the RV park for any other reason.

Criminal Activity: The City may revoke an RV park’s business license anytime there has
been more than three (3) criminal convictions, excluding minor traffic violations, for
incidents occurring at the RV park during any twelve (12) month period.

Inspections:
1, Each RV park shall be inspected twice a year by the City.

2. The RV park has the responsibility to contact the City and schedule each
inspection. The City has fourteen (14) days to inspect the RV park after the
inspection has been requested.

3. Each inspection must be at least ninety (90) days from the previous inspection.

4. The cost of two (2) inspections a year will be covered by the RV park’s annual
business license fee.

5. If an RV park does not provide verification of two (2) inspections at least ninety
(90) days apart during the previous year, then the RV park owner shall pay an
additional fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) prior to receiving a business
license. The additional fee is in addition to the annual RV park business license
fee. The additional fee may be amended by the City Council in an adopted fee
schedule.

6. An RY park may not be issued a business license unless it has passed an
inspection within thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of the business license.

Page 5 Ordinance 02-07-2023-A

The inspection is to verify that the RV park is compliant with the terms of this
code and all other applicable laws.

W. ‘Recreation Vehicles: All recreational vehicles in the RV park must have an active license
from the appropriate state and/or federal agency.

Xx, Fines & Penalties: In addition to the fines and penalties set forth in this code and other
applicable laws, an RV park owner who violates the terms of this code is subject to the
following fines & penalties:

1. A five hundred dollar ($500.00) fine for each violation of this code;
“2... ° Aclass “B” misdemeanor for each violation of the code;

3. The City Council may amend the amount of the fine for each violation of this
code in an adopted fee schedule.

NEPHI CITY
A Mupfcipal Corporation

Ls

f STIN D. SEELY ~~
ayor

“ICORPORATED
“EBRUARY
isag > /*

Recorder

Page 6 Ordinance 02-07-2023-A
