                                    Ogden city
Who is filling out this report?
Brandon Rypien
Senior Planner
brandonrypien@ogdencity.gov
801-629-8931

Provide the following information for your moderate-income housing element:


Link to adoption resolution or ordinance:
file:///X:/Planning/Plans/General%20Plans/Moderate%20Income%20Housing%20Plan/2025%2
0MIH%20Reporting/Pages%20from%20Ordinance%202023-
8%20moderate%20income%20housing.pdf


Link to general plan, moderate income housing element:
https://www.ogdencity.gov/DocumentCenter/View/24462/07-Housing-Element-amended-
2022_PC_BR

You will not be able to go back in the survey after making this selection. Please make
sure you have entered all information up to this point. TYPE OF REPORT Please choose
from the following options. Nearly all communities are in year 2-5 of their reporting.
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan tasks and timelines we reported on
last year.




                                                                                           583
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan
tasks and timelines we reported on last year.

2-5 YEAR REPORTING The following section is for communities in YEARS 2-5 of reporting. If
the implementation plan has been updated or amended, progress made must be documented in
this section of the report. You will enter the following information in this section: 1) Shapefiles
and data related to zoning, entitled units, and accessory dwelling units (ADUs) 2) Your
community's MIH strategies (including changes to strategies - if applicable) 3) Feedback and
recommendation regarding the MIH program


ZONING MAP
Zoning Data Statute requires that counties and municipalities provide their current zoning map.
This document should reflect current adopted ordinances.
Please be aware that zoning data submitted will be shared with the Utah Geospatial
Resource Center.


Shapefiles (.shp) must be uploaded using this link. After uploading the file, please type
"Uploaded" in the field below. If a shapefile is not available, please provide a link to maps
and tables in the field below. If you have any questions, please contact mih@utah.gov.
https://arcg.is/0PLTLC0

When did the last zoning map or text amendment occur?
The last zoning map amendment was for the R-2S rezone that was amended on February 4,
2025. It is a zone that allows attached single household residential and small lot single
household residential. This zone has been used for several infill residential developments
throughout the city.

ENTITLED UNITS The following questions ask about entitled units. Entitled units are units that
are legally allowed to be built under current zoning, existing development agreement, or other
legal mechanism, (e.g., overlay zone). This data is collected to capture current built or zoned
conditions. Please report entitled unit data as of May 1, 2025. Do not include any parcels or
units that are only planned or in the process of being rezoned as residential. Example: if a
parcel is zoned greenbelt on May 1, 2025 and a rezone application is in process, do not count it
in this data. If some parcels can’t be developed due to barriers like geography, setbacks, or
lack of infrastructure, you can explain these issues in the barriers or narrative sections of your
report.


Provide a count of entitled residential units (as defined above) that have NOT received a
building permit.
584


                                                                                                584
Less the units, parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous question, provide
a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that include an overlay zone and the
number of residential units that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that
have NOT pulled a building permit.
18

Less the units parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous two questions,
provide a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that are currently zoned
residential (single family, townhome, multi family, etc) and the number of residential units
that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that have NOT pulled a building
permit.
1,379

From the counts reported above, provide a count of the entitled residential units which
have received will serve letters from utilities or an equivalent that shows that all utilities
and infrastructure (i.e. roads, water, sewer, power, phone, gas) are complete for the units,
parcels, or lots.
0


Describe any barriers to developing these units that have been experienced. These
barriers could include infrastructure, public concerns, geographic constraints, etc.
Providing detail here allows us to share the experiences and needs of communities to
support the data reported above.

Provide any notes or explanations for the data entered above (e.g., upcoming
developments, clarifying data, context, etc.).
Ogden has approved a lot of townhome projects this past year. Several of the apartment
projects that have been counted in the past several MIH reports are under construction,
especially in the downtown area. Ogden City is working with a development team to prepare
the land surrounding the Union Station for mixed use development that will include hundreds of
apartments.


ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

The following questions ask about the number of Accessory Dwelling Units (internal, external,
detached) in your county or municipality as of the report submission date.


How does the county or municipality track known "for-rent" Accessory Dwelling Units?
(select one)
Count of building permits issued




                                                                                               585
Total known number of Accessory Dwelling Units recorded as of the report submission
date:
27
Total number of building permits issued to construct an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
4

Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU issued in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
4



Total number of other types of permits or license issued for an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 (if applicable, please
provide the count and type of permit or license issued)
0




                                                                                       586
REPORTING ON STRATEGY PROGRESS
The following questions ask you to provide detailed progress on the moderate-income housing
strategies between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. A county or municipality must report on
at least the minimum strategy requirements to comply in the subsequent report.

1. Select a moderate income housing strategy from Utah Code that the county or
municipality has included in its moderate-income housing element. (For the list of
strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code Section 10-9a-403 for
municipalities and Section 17-27a-403 for counties)
N
U
E
C
O
G

2. Reference the Implementation Plan for this strategy and list the timelines and
benchmarks that were planned to be complete between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.
You may include actions taken before the 12-month reporting period in this report as an
ongoing action if it: i) clearly supports the moderate income housing strategy from the
initial report (e.g., previously adopted ordinance, approved a land use application, made an
investment, or approved an agreement or financing); ii) the new report shows the action is
still helpful to making progress on the strategy.
N
Ogden General Plan Strategy 6.I.: “Continue to provide through the Own in Ogden Grant
additional funding for home purchases to city employees for first time home purchases or
relocation into Ogden.” This is an ongoing action, Ogden City adopted an annual budget for
administering the Own in Ogden and the Rehab Resale Program (formerly known as the Home
Sweet Ogden program) for FY25. The Own in Ogden program can be used for all applicants,
not just first-time buyers. The program is for applicants buying their primary residence in Ogden
City.

U
Ogden General Plan Strategy 6.J.: “Develop and adopt station area plans in accordance with
Utah Code 10-9a-403.1.” Adoption of the Station Area Plan is not required until December 31,
2025.

E
Ogden General Plan Strategy 6.C.: “Continue to provide, improve opportunities and adjust
regulations for Accessory Dwelling Units in all neighborhoods in Ogden City.” To meet the state
strategy, Ogden must reduce regulations on accessory dwelling units and continue to create or
allow for accessory dwelling units in residential zones.




                                                                                              587
C
Ogden General Plan Strategy 6.H.: “Preserve existing moderate income housing through the
HELP and Homestead programs of Ogden City.” Ogden City Community Development Division
continues to receive federal HUD funding through Community Development Block Grant
(CDBG) and the HOME grant programs. These funds are used to support goals through HUD.

O
Ogden General Plan Strategy 6.G.: “Continue to partner with Ogden Housing Authority and
Weber County Housing Authority in development of projects in Ogden City in the development
of low to moderate-income housing.”

G
Ogden General Plan Strategy 6.D.: “Require higher density developments in TOD, Urban Mixed
Use, and Neighborhood Village Centers.”




3. Describe each action taken between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement the
tasks listed in Question 2. Include how the actions taken support implementation of the
strategy.
N
A.Ogden employees who do not own a home in Ogden may receive up to $15,000 to be used
for a down payment, closing costs, or principal reduction toward first mortgage loan balance.
The loan is zero interest, deferred payment that is required to be repaid in full if the recipient
chooses to sell the home before 10 yeas. Ogden City Police Officers and Firefighters may
receive up to $20,000; the loan is forgiven fully after the recipient has lived in the home for 10
years. B.The program guidelines have been updated to allow for an existing house priced up to
$430,000 or a new build priced up to $467,000. This change occurred halfway through FY25
(September 1, 2024) in response to market trends. The previous home price was $380,000 for
both new and existing homes. C.The budget for the 2025-2026 fiscal year was approved in
June of 2025. D.The area median income limits (as determined by HUD) were updated July 1,
2025.

U
A.Ogden City has begun the process of updating the general plan. The five bus-rapid transit
station area plans (with fixed guideways) are included as part of Ogden City’s general plan
update. The five station area plans are located within the Harrison Blvd Corridor and on Weber
State University’s Campus. Ogden City formed a station area plan advisory committee to help
guide plan development and feedback. Ogden City also sought extensive public feedback
through in-person and virtual workshops and surveys. Five in-person public workshops and ten
events regarding the station areas were held between August 1, 2024 – July 31, 2025. The
Station Area Plan advisory committee will meet a total of nine times by the time the station area
plan is adopted. The consultant team, Logan Simpson LLC, have been contracted to develop




                                                                                               588
the Station Area plan. B.City staff are drafting the Ogden FrontRunner Station’s Prior Actions
document to be adopted and certified by Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC). City staff
are preparing the FrontRunner Station’s Prior Actions document to be adopted by the City
Council in order to submit it to WFRC for certification. As of July 21, 2025 the prior action
document has been reviewed by WFRC and a transmittal for City Council is being prepared.
The item will go before City Council in August 2025.

E
Ogden City is in the process of updating the general plan and Unified Development Code
(UDC). Ogden City has held several public events and workshops August 2024 – July 2025 and
obtained community feedback on ADUs including design standard. Ogden City is proposing as
part of the new Unified Development Code to allow ADUs citywide in all single-family residential
zones.

C
A. Over $369,000 in home renovation loans were distributed in FY25. The average loan was
under $15,000 and helped homeowners make needed repairs, including roof replacements,
sewer and water laterals, windows, cladding, concrete, and landscaping improvements.B.
Ogden City purchased 4 existing homes to renovate and sell to moderate-income households in
FY25.

O
A.Ogden Housing Authority completed the permanent supportive housing development “Solace”
at 31st and Lincoln. It has 56 units dedicated to permanently housing homeless individuals. This
project was completed and began to house individuals in November 2024. B.Ogden City
received a federal grant for the FY25 that is being used for the Tenant Based Rental Assistance
Program (TBRA). The program is managed through the Ogden Housing Authority and currently
aids 79 people that were previously homeless; 73 receive rent with supportive services and 6
receive supportive services assistance.

G
Held five in-person workshops and ten events August 2024 – July 2025 to obtain public input
regarding the SAP for the BRT route along the Harrison Blvd corridor. During each workshop
session, staff asked targeted questions about the SAP alongside transportation related inquires.
Several priorities that align with this strategy emerged including: A. Encouraging the
development of more mixed-use centers to support projected housing and job growth. B. Create
additional public gathering spaces to support community interaction. C. High-density residential
zoning near goods and services to provide alternative transportation options.




                                                                                                 589
4.     Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement this strategy. Include how the regulations or
decisions support efforts to implement the strategy.
N
City Council approved 2025-2026 budget to continue to fund the Own in Ogden and the Rehab
Resale program.

U
Ogden City is reviewing the drafted Station Area Plans for BRT stations along the Harrison Blvd.
corridor and the FrontRunner Station with WFRC in September 2025. Ogden City is on track to
be certified by the December 2025 deadline.

E
A.As part of Ogden City’s UDC, we will increase the height limit for ADU’s up to 25’, which could
allow a homeowner to build an ADU over a detached garage, regardless of the height of the
primary structure. Previously, an ADU was limited to the height of the primary building. B.As
part of the UDC adoption, ADUs will be permitted in all single-family residential zones citywide
and all prior restrictions will be removed.

C
Ogden City Council continues to fund programs and the Community Development Division. All
of the Community Development programs were funded during the 2024-2025 fiscal year.

O
Ogden Housing Authority was approved to construct a transitional housing project for young
adults that are transitioning out of the foster system. The project is proposed to be located at
211 Patterson. The project received a conditional use approval for a 12 unit apartment.

G
A.Update zoning ordinances by adopting Community Campus (CC), Mixed-Use (MU), and High
Density Residential zones along the Harrison Blvd. SAP corridor. These zones promote more
housing near the bus-rapid transit stations. B.Update overlay zones to remove ADU restrictions
and allow additional residential infill options near transit. Expand allowed residential infill options
such as ADU’s, cottage lots, duplexes, and residential conversions. These new infill options will
increase the ability for more people to live near the transit stations. C.Encourage corner stores,
cafes, and small-scale services in mixed use areas as part of the new citywide vision and
general plan update. The new mixed-use centers will provide needed services for people that
live near transit and promote healthier alternative modes of transportation. D.Use HTRZ or TIF
tools to redevelop strip malls and low-value commercial lots along Harrison Blvd SAP corridor.
Ogden City is applying for HTRZ to secure funding to build high density housing within the
opportunity zone near the FrontRunner Station. E.Adopt the Ogden City BRT Station Area Plan.




                                                                                                    590
Ogden City has worked with a consultant throughout 2024 to develop the BRT Station Area
Plan. It is on schedule to be adopted by December 31, 2025.




5.      What barriers were encountered by the county or municipality between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 while implementing this strategy? Documenting barriers does
not exempt the community from reporting plan progress The minimum required number
of strategies must advance for compliance, regardless of the barriers faced. If no barriers
were experienced, write "None."
N
The program was able to approve and fund 52 households this past fiscal year exceeding the
goal of 50 households for the FY25. The program was also able to adapt to market conditions to
help broaden the availability of the program to applicants. The demand for this program
continues to grow each year.

U
None

E
None

C
The cost of construction and high interest rates have limited the amount of projects Ogden City
can complete within a fiscal year.

O
An application for a permanent supportive housing for homeless proposed by Weber Housing
Authority did not get approval in 2024. However, the city purchased the property from Weber
Housing Authority and envisions the site being developed into neighborhood infill to continue to
revitalize the neighborhood and promote low to moderate income homeownership options.

G
None




                                                                                              591
6.      Describe how the market has responded to the implementation of the strategy
(e.g., units permitted, units entitled, deed restrictions, rezones, households displaced during
redevelopment, changes in rents, etc.).
N
The maximum home price was updated about halfway through the fiscal year in response to
market conditions. The previous maximum was $380,000 for both new and existing households.

U
The Capital Square project in East Central Ogden is an indicator that the market is interested in
developing near the bus-rapid transit stations. Two of the bus-rapid transit stations along
Harrison Blvd. are ripe for redevelopment. A recent market study shows that these areas were
developed prior to 1980, and they are ready for a redevelopment.

E
The number of total known accessory dwelling units recorded, and business licenses or permits
to rent an ADU has increased since the previous year. Building permits issued to construct an
ADU have decreased compared to last year. We anticipate that with the adoption of the UDC
and General Plan we will see an increase in ADU applications.

C
Interest rates are around 7% and has made it difficult for people to purchase housing. Even if a
household has a large down payment, their buying power has been significantly diminished due
to high interest rates.

O
Ogden Housing Authority has received approval for the 211 Patterson transitional housing
project, but it is trying to secure additional funding to begin construction. Ogden Housing
Authority stated that they there is a need for more units, and it would like to add another story to
the building, which it could do based on the zone’s height limit. These types of projects require
government subsidies to develop.

G
Ogden City is actively working with UTA to prepare its land (17 acres) near the FrontRunner
station for a large mixed-use development called Union Station Neighborhood. Ogden City is
contracted with J. Fisher Companies and Mortensen to develop this property.




                                                                                                 592
7.   Links to supporting documentation (Optional)
N

U

E

C

O

G




     Attachment to supporting documentation (Optional)
N

U

E

C

O

G




                                                         593
FEEDBACK & RECOMMENDATIONS
What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement the
moderate income housing strategies? (Select all that apply)
Housing needs data,Planning technical assistance,Model ordinances.,Staff resources,Reporting
technical assistance


Describe any recommendations on how the state can support the county or municipality
in implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (If none, please write N/A)
Ogden City needs more State and Federal funding in order to reduce the gap between income
and cost of housing. Ogden City provides down payment assistance programs, but households
are still cost burdened by the cost of housing. Ogden City provides a majority of Weber County’s
affordable housing, partially because it has an older housing stock than surrounding cities. The
Community Development Division provides assistance to households that cannot afford to make
needed home repairs. The Community Development Division always has more need than funds
available. Federal and State funding help fund many of the programs that low-income
households rely on to maintain their older homes in a habitable state. Ogden City residents
depend on natural occurring affordable housing (NOAH) and the demand for ongoing
maintenance will continue to grow as its housing stock continues to age. Ogden City has the
lowest median household income in Weber County, which means when major home repairs are
needed, such as a new roof, this can be very difficult for households to afford.


If your community has a fixed guideway transit station or is within 1/2 mile of a rail station, and is
required to adopt the Station Area Plan strategy, please ensure that you do the following:
1) Submit your approved station area plan to your applicable metropolitan planning organization
(Wasatch Front Regional Council or Mountainland Association of Governments). If they
determine that your station area plan is compliant with state code, they will provide your
community a written certification of compliance.
2) Provide us (HCD) with the certification of compliance, either by going back to the optional
attachment page earlier in this report OR emailing it to mih@utah.gov.
For more information on this requirement, see Utah Code 10-9a-403.1 Section (10).


Clicking the "Next" button at the bottom of the form will submit your report.




                                                                                                   594
