   THE GENERAL PLAN
           FOR
THE EAST ENTERPRISE AREA
        2011 - 2011




           Prepared by
      The Washington County
       Planning Department
                    EAST ENTERPRISE AREA GENERAL PLAN
                                 2010 - 2011

Introduction:

East Enterprise is an unincorporated part of Washington County. Residents and others
should take time to review Section I of the County General Plan which discusses
planning in general, the basis for planning, and the purpose of planning. Many of the
things mentioned in the beginning of Section VII of the County General Plan are also
relevant to the residents of this part of the county. The General Plan provides guidelines
for the future for this particular part of the county in addition to those things that are
applied county wide in the other sections of the General Plan.

The East Enterprise area came about over a number of years. There have been three
subdivision developments recorded in this area. These were Enterprise Ranchos which
was recorded June 20, 1962, the Phillips Ranch Phase 2 recorded in June of 1986, and a
one lot subdivision labeled the KM subdivision recorded on October 24, 2006.

The Enterprise Ranchos subdivision was platted and recorded a number of years prior to
the county adopting its first subdivision ordinance. It contains 98 lots. The Phillips
Ranch Phase 2 subdivision contains only 7 large lots, and the KM subdivision contained
only 1 lot. These subdivisions, except for the one lot subdivision, were recorded as "dry"
subdivisions without any provision for providing water for the subdivided lots.

Over the years, other parcels of land have been sold by metes and bounds without ever
having been subdivided. There was also a court ordered sale of the balance of the
Gilliam property to settle the estate of B.B. Gilliam after his death. B.B. Gilliam was the
original developer of the Enterprise Ranchos subdivision. Most of the various lot sales
that have taken place for many years have been zoned by the county zoning ordinance
and zoning map to recognize these scattered lot sales as "legal non-conforming" lots in
order to allow the owners of the lots to be able to obtain building permits for these
scattered parcels.

Geography and Topography:

The East Enterprise area of the county is largely a relatively flat land area lying adjacent
to the City of Enterprise on the west, the Iron County line on the north, and the Dixie
National Forest boundary on the east and south. The National Forest land tends to be
mountainous while the valley is composed of farm land and is generally flat.

There is one major highway that runs through the area. It is State Highway 18 that runs
between Enterprise City and the Iron County line. This highway also connects the City
of Enterprise with the City of St. George which is located 43 miles to the south of
Enterprise. The East Enterprise area is also 50 miles from Cedar City to the east in Iron




                                              2
County via State Highway 56 which is located north of the Iron County line and connects
Cedar City with settlements to the west in Lincoln County, Nevada.

The climate in the Enterprise valley consists of four distinct seasons. Summers are
generally mild, and winters can be very cold. The elevation is about 6,000 feet.
The entire East Enterprise area contains approximately 5,500 acres of private land.
Much of the land is in an agricultural use of one kind or another. Most of the northern
area is in agricultural production. The central part includes in residential development
and the southern part of the valley is mostly vacant and in agricultural livestock grazing,

There is one small parcel of land in the central part of the valley, adjacent to State
Highway 18, which is identified as commercial land. It contains a contractor's storage
yard as opposed to a general commercial use. There is no other commercial
development. There is commercial business located north of the Iron County line which
includes the Crossroads Equipment Company sales building.

A review of the land use of the valley is tabulated in the following table:

                                          Table I
                                   Existing Land Use

                       Residential Development            523 acres
                       Agricultural (farming)           1,208 acres
                       Agricultural (Livestock grazing,
                          and vacant land.)             3,758 acres
                       Industrial development              12 acres

                                      TOTAL:               5,502 acres

The above figures may not be totally survey accurate, but they paint a relative picture of
the various types of land use. Considering the private land in the valley, there is still
much land available for various types of land development.

Agricultural Development:

Most of the citizens responding to the planning questionnaire requested that the area
remain much as it is today. Actual development of the valley has been generally very
slow over the years. It should also be identified in this Plan that the East Enterprise area
constitutes most of the irrigated farm land that remains in Washington County that is not
currently being transitioned into residential development.

The amount of agricultural farm land is estimated to contain about 1,208 acres of land.
Sufficient water appears to be available to allow this land to continue to be used as
irrigated farm land. The other major farm area in the county, located in the Washington
Field area south of the City of Washington, is rapidly disappearing as a farm area leaving
the Enterprise area as the major farm area in the county. The pressure to change the land



                                              3
in this valley from farming to residential is not a major concern at this time. The General
Plan recommends that the irrigated farm land in East Enterprise continue to be used as it
is today. If this land is not already in a green belt classification it should be placed
therein, and agriculture protection areas should be created as necessary.

Residential Development:

There are currently almost 60 dwelling units existing in East Enterprise. The average
family size is large compared to the average in Washington County which is currently an
average of about three residents per dwelling,

Using the average family size from the questionnaire, the population of the East
Enterprise area would be about 300 residents. Using the county average, the population
would be about 180 residents. When the census figures are collected every ten years by
the Federal Government, they only identify the population in incorporated cities and
towns and do not calculate the population in any of the unincorporated residential areas
of the county.

Over the past ten years there have been 18 building permits issued in the East Enterprise
area. If that same number of permits was extended forward for an additional ten years, it
would mean the same number of permits to be issued in the next ten years would be an
additional 18 permits. This would translate, using the questionnaire family size, into
about 90 new residents, or using the county average family size it would translate into
about 54 new residents giving the area a ten year protected population of about 234 to
390 residents.

Based upon a total land area in the valley of about 6,500 acres of land, the density of the
population in East Enterprise is about 110 acres per dwelling unit which is actually very
low. The population density compared to the amount of land for most of the areas of the
county that are unincorporated is low compared to the density of the various cities and
towns in the county.

The Vision Dixie Summary:

According to the responses from the questionnaire circulated in the area, some of the
residents of East Enterprise did participate in the Vision Dixie planning project. The
outgrowth of the study and recommendations by the committee charged with reviewing
the material collected was a series of guidelines and policies aimed at guiding future
growth in the county. A summary of the Vision Dixie study, adopted by the county and
most of the incorporated cities and towns in the county is summarized for the residents of
East Enterprise as follows:

1.     Plan regionally, implement locally - The General Plan for East Enterprise is being
       prepared for the residents of this area specifically, and is also a part of the County
       General Plan. It deals with aspects of the future of this area and may be amended




                                             4
     or expanded from time to time as necessary, still dealing with the concerns of this
     area, and not with the county at large.

2.   Maintain air and water quality, and conserve water - Air and water quality is good
     in East Enterprise. The quality of culinary water was given good ratings by those
     filling out the questionnaire last year. Water conservation is also evident in the
     area inasmuch as there is not water to waste. Irrigation of crop land depends upon
     wells to provide water for irrigation. With a number of drought years, the water
     table has declined. This year, with a high amount of water being absorbed into
     the water table, it may reverse the ground water supply here as it has done in other
     areas of the State during one of the highest water years on recent record.

3.   Guard our signature landscapes - The view shed in East Enterprise is
     primarily toward the east and south on the Dixie National Forest. This forest land
     is primarily open space and is not proposed for any other type of development.
     There is no action on the part of the county, or the residents of this area of the
     county, to request the release of any forest land for urban development. It should
     be protected from development in order to guard the view shed.

4.   Provide rich, connected natural recreation areas and open space - There are not a
     lot of recreation facilities provided in East Enterprise. There have been some
     suggestions made relative to the creation of a recreation center, a community
     park, and similar facilities for the use of residents in the area. However, with the
     amount of open space on the National Forest that are so close by the residents,
     there is not a lot of support for additional recreation facilities within the area.

5.   Build a balanced transportation system - This item is best considered in the urban
     areas of the County. The only public transportation system in the county
     currently exists in a portion of St. George City. Cost will keep this system from
     spreading county-wide. There may sometime be a transportation system between
     the lower St. George valley and the City of Enterprise. Should this happen, East
     Enterprise will have access to such a system. It is not proposed in the near future.

6.   Get centered by focusing on growth in walkdable - mixed use centers - This area
     has not developed over the years as a walkable community. It was not envisioned
     as a walkable community when the original subdivision activity took place. It is
     not likely to become a walkable community in the future unless a planned
     development of some kind is proposed which would, within itself, provide a
     walkable situation for the residents that lived there. It is difficult in existing
     development to retrofit them into this principle of the Vision Dixie Plan. It
     should be the goal of the county to require that all newly planned projects
     consider the walkabilty of their proposed development against this principle of the
     Vision Dixie Plan

7.   Direct growth inward - Over time it may be possible to do an amount of infill
     between current and proposed development. This would be a step toward meeting



                                           5
       the concept of the Vision Dixie Plan. It could be accomplished by future
       development. One of the General Plan recommendations is to provide protection
       to the existing farming areas in order to protect farming as long as possible.

8.     Provide a broad range of housing types - In an area where a sewer system is not
       available for use in development, it is difficult to approve any development that
       cannot use septic tanks as a means of waste disposal. This principle has
       application in areas where a sewer system is available to the residents. Only
       single family homes are likely to take place in areas where septic tanks are in use.
       Septic tanks do not support any significant amount of high density development.

9.     Reserve areas for industry - There have been some suggestions relative to
       commercial and industrial development in the area. Such uses would, of
       necessity, be located adjacent to State Highway 18. With the State Highway
       system extending eastward to Cedar City and the Interstate Freeway system, this
       could be accomplished in this part of the county. The General Plan does not
       attempt to identify any specific area for industrial development other than to state
       that it must be in relation to the State Highway system rather than anywhere else
       in the valley.

10.    Public land conversion - No land in East Enterprise is needed for conversion from
       public to private land ownership. This policy of the Vision Dixie Plan would
       have no need for application in this part of the county.

Commercial Development:

Commercial development is non-existent in this area of the county. The General Plan
recommends that commercial development not be allowed to take place as strip
commercial development along the State Highway. Strip development would not benefit
the residents of the area and would not be likely to bring significant traffic from the
highway to use the services offered. That is not to say that a commercial center
somewhere in the valley would not be useful to the residents. This is the reason that the
Vision Dixie Plan suggests walkable communities where commercial business could be
located within three-fourths of a mile from all residents. Such a facility as part of a
planned development could, in the future, provide useful commercial business for the
benefit of the residents. Keep in mind that commercial development does not usually
take place until an economic study indicates that a developer of a commercial business
has an opportunity to receive a return on the investment. That may yet be some time
away in this area of the county.

Industrial development:

Industrial development has already been discussed in as a part of the Vision Dixie Plan
review discussed above. While industry taking place in this area could be viable based
on the major highway access available between here and I-15 in Cedar City, or using the
railroad at Cedar City or Modena. The General Plan does not suggest any specific



                                             6
location, only that it be in proximity to the highway system through the area, and not a
part of the agricultural farming area unless it is an agricultural industry.

Public Services:

A section of the General Plan deals with public services as they relate county-wide is
found at the beginning of this section, Section VII, of the County General Plan. Some
comments are stated in this part of the Plan as they relate specifically to the area of East
Enterprise.

Electricity:

East Enterprise is provided with electrical power by the Rocky Mountain Power
Company. With already completed and currently proposed upgrades to their system, the
power company feels that they can adequately provide power to most of the
unincorporated areas of the county well into the future. The General Plan strongly
recommends that in choosing a right-of-way for the new line proposed between Sigurd
and Red Butte follow existing power line routes, and that it not pass through the private
area in East Enterprise, and that it does not impact the National Forest view shed to the
east of the area.

Natural Gas:

Technically, natural gas service is available to East Enterprise. There is a stub line that
comes from the main transmission line into the City of Enterprise. The problem comes
from being able to tap that line with a pressure reducing station, and the cost of extending
natural gas service throughout the area for use by residents. The cost of doing this is
currently prohibitive. The General Plan would recommend that the gas company work
with the local area to make natural gas fuel available to this area of the county at an
economical cost.

Water:

There is no culinary water system serving this area in Washington County. All of the
homes in East Enterprise are served by private wells, or in some cases by wells shared
between home owners. To obtain a well permit a person must obtain a water right,
usually from an irrigation source, convert it to a culinary right, and drill a well. There are
some water rights available from land that has been farmed but which is no longer in
agricultural production for one reason or another. The lack of an area wide water system
is probably the single largest factor in limiting residential growth in the area than any
other single reason.




                                              7
Sewage Disposal:

This public service has been previously discussed in this Plan in relation to residential
development and the growth and development of the area. Presently residents are served
by septic tanks as a means of liquid disposal.

One improvement that could be made to septic tanks would be to have the tanks
inspected on an annual basis to determine their continued ability to provide the service
for which they were installed. If they were inspected regularly and pumped as often as
necessary for good maintenance, they should continue to serve the needs of the area will
into the future. An inspection and maintenance system could alleviate this potential
concern. The General Plan would recommend that a maintenance system in the area be
considered for the area at some time in the future. The current number of dwellings is not
sufficient to make this a viable option.

Roads:

There is a combination of road designations in East Enterprise. The major highway
running through the area is State Highway 18. It is maintained by the Utah Department
of Transportation. There are two recorded subdivisions in the area having dedicated
county roads. However, many of these roads have never been constructed and are a
right-of-way only. There are many other roads in the area that have never be dedicated.

The policy of the county for many years has been to maintain county roads in the same
condition and degree of improvement that they were in at the time they were dedicated.
If residents of an area desire improvements to the roads in their area, the county will
create a special improvement district to bring the roads to the current county standard.
Improvement costs can be spread out over a period of time, usually about ten years.
After the improvement, the county will maintain the roads in the improved condition.
Undedicated roads are not maintained by the county. The county currently maintains the
Bench Road along with one or two other roads that have been determined as county roads
by right of use over a long period of time.

Fire Protection:

East Enterprise is currently served by the North Central Fire District which was
organized to provide fire protection services to this part of the county. It is a volunteer
fire department and a number of residents of the area belong to this fire department, but
because the department has no fire fighting equipment, they participate with the
Enterprise department as volunteers. At this time there is only one fire hydrant in East
Enterprise. A plan is in place to provide additional hydrants. The Fire District contracts
with the City of Enterprise to provide fire fighting equipment, and to respond to fires in
the East Enterprise area.




                                             8
The volunteers in this area also train and participate with the Enterprise City department.
Each of these systems participates with the county fire chief's association for training,
and they cooperate together for the good of the residents of the Enterprise valley.

Solid Waste:

The City of Enterprise and the unincorporated area of East Enterprise participate in the
Washington County Solid Waste District. Pickup of waste in this area is collected in the
same manner as it is in various communities throughout the county. Individual collection
cans are available to the residents and waste is regularly collected by the District.

Building Inspection:

Building Inspection for dwelling units and other types of building construction is
provided by the county building department. The cost of building permits is established
to defray the cost of inspection during the period of construction. Building permit fees in
the unincorporated areas of the county are significantly less than found in most of the
incorporated cities and towns in the county.

Public Safety:

Police protection in the area is provided by the Washington County Sheriff's office. This
service will continue as long as the area continues as an unincorporated part of
Washington County. Some communities desiring greater protection have contracted with
the county to increase the amount of sheriff's visibility in their area through a specific
contract calling for more protection in exchange for additional funds being raised in the
area.

Communication:

Most of Washington County is served by the CenturyLink communication company. In
addition to CenturyLink services, there are a number of private cellular companies
providing service within the county. Citizen response to the planning questionnaire
resulted in a mixed response to the question of cellular services. Services appear to be
generally satisfactory, but companies should continue to upgrade and improve services to
the residents. Certain cellular companies appear to be better able to provide their
customers with service, and there may still be certain parts of the area where service is
limited.

Flood Control:

There are two areas of the valley where flooding can be a problem. The wash coming out
of Holt Canyon can create problems under certain conditions. The county recently
constructed a new bridge over Bench Road because the prior bridge was washed out. The
General Plan recommends that the county work with the forest service in order to keep




                                             9
the Hold Canyon wash which originates on National Forest land, in order to keep this
wash clear of trees and other debris as the wash flows through this area.

Another wash is called the Cottonwood Wash and also originates on Forest Service land
and runs through the western part of East Enterprise and empties into Shoal Creek near
the northern end of the valley. This was could have some of the same problems as are
associated with the Holt Canyon wash and the General Plan recommends that the county
work with the forest service to maintain the upper reaches of this wash as well.

Incorporation or annexation:

One final issue related to public services is the question of incorporation. Under Utah
State Law, a petition for incorporation must originate from within the community that
desires to pursue this alternative. Whether or not this is an alternative that should be
considered in this area is the decision of the residents living in this area. The county does
not promote incorporation, or annexation.

The county feels that government that is closest to the people is the best form of
government. It will support any decision that the residents of any unincorporated area of
the county decide to do or not to do.

In each area of the county where planning meetings have been held with the residents, it
has been expressed that the residents would like to keep things just as they are.
Physically, most of the areas have changed very little over a long period of time.
However the residents of these areas continue to grow older, and in most cases, the
replacement by new, younger families does not take place. Therefore, to keep things just
as they are is something that is not possible to happen.

The question is not whether things change, but rather, "Will we as citizens be prepared to
give direction and input to change when it happens, or will we sit back and wait until
something happens, and then wish what we had been able to do something about the
change after it has taken place." To be aware of what is happening, and to give citizen
input to projected change before it takes place is the opportunity for the residents of this
community as a result of the General Plan study that is contained herein.




                                             10
     WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY STATISSTICAL SURVEY
                           FOR
               THE AREA OF EAST ENTERPRISE
                        2010 - 2011

1.   Residency status:

     a.     How long have you lived in this area?        37 year average
     b.     Number in family                              5 average
     c.     Home owner                                  100 %
     d.     Land owner                                  100 %      186 acres average

2.   Please mark the characteristics that you value the most or that help you choose to
     live or own property in this area:

     a.     Born or raised in the area                            80 %
     b.     Close to family, friends, or neighbors               100 %
     c.     Close to mountains                                    80 %
     d.     Like the open space                                  100 %
     e.     The opportunity to keep horses, animals, etc.         80 %
     f.     Quiet community                                       80 %
     g.     Recreation opportunities                              60 %
     h.     Safe environment                                     100 %
     i.     Small town atmosphere                                100 %
     j.     Other:

3.   Should the rural atmosphere be preserved?
     a.     Yes 100 %                    No
     b.     How? Control type of growth, good zoning regulations, don't sell your
            property

4.   Should existing farm land be preserved?
     a.     How should it be done? Create buffer zones around farms, let owner
            decide whether or not to keep it agricultural,

5.   Would you favor developing a system of walking/bicycle tails throughout the
     area?
           Yes - 40 %            No - 60 %

6.   Please mark on a scale 1 - 5 your concerns on each of the following: Traffic,
     safety, street and road conditions, unsafe ORV use, street dedication
     No problem = 0, most concerned = 5, least concerned = 1

     a.     Off-highway vehicles on streets - 0 = 40 %, 5 = 20 %, 3 = 60 %



                                         11
       b.      Speed / traffic control - 5 = 40 %, 3 = 20 %, 2 = 20 %, 1 = 20 %
       c.      Road conditions - 5 = 60 %, 3 = 20 %, 2 = 20 %
       d       Unsafe ORV use - 5 = 40 %, 3 = 20 %, 1 = 40 %
       e.      Street dedication - 3 = 40 %, 1 = 20 %
       f.      Other: Consolidate planned roads with adjacent city roads or planned
               roads.

7.     List commercial business, or industrial/manufacturing businesses, if any, that you
       think are needed or desirable to serve the residents and visitors to this area?

       a.      Commercial is not needed
       b.      Light agricultural industry
       c.      Non-polluting industry
       d.      Light manufacturing - non-polluting

8.     Where should business or industries identified above be located?

       a.      Existing residents should give input
       b.      East of town

9.     Please rate on a scale of 1 to 5 your perception or experience with the following
       local services as they relate to the area.
       Excellent = 5, Poor = 1, No experience = 0

       a.      Ambulance/emergency medical - 5 = 60 %, 4 = 40 %
       b.      Drinking water service and quality - 5 = 60 %, 4 = 20 %, 3 = 20 %
       c.      Electrical power service - 5 = 60 %, 4 = 40 %
       d.      Fire protection - 5 = 60 %, 4 = 40 %
       e.      Garbage collection - 4 = 100 %
       f.      Law enforcement - 4 = 60 %, 3 = 40 %
       g.      Postal service - 5 = 60 %, 4 = 40 %
       h.      School transportation - 5 = 60 %, 4 = 20 %, 1 = 20 %
       i.      Telephone service - 4 = 80 %, 3 = 20 %
       j.      Cell phone service - 4 = 40 %, 3 = 40 %, 2 = 20 %
       k.      Other -

10.    Should the area consider providing recreation facilities/opportunities for
       residents of this area?

       Yes - 40 %              No - 60 %

11.     If the answer to #10 was yes. List up to three recreation facilities that you think
are desirable.

       a.      Community center
       b.      Recreation center



                                             12
      c.     Pool
      d.     Park

12.   How can you best be informed about meetings, times, agendas, events, issues, etc.

      a.     Word of mouth                          40%
      b.     Notices at the fire station            20 %
      c.     Notices at the store, if existing      100 %
      d.     Notices at the post office             60 %
      e.     Posting on the internet                40 %
      f.     Other - Library, church

13.   Did you participate in the recent Vision Dixie planning program? Yes - 60%
      No - 40 %

14.   If you did participate, what are two or three things did you find valuable about the
      study, or about things that the area should do to comply with the study?

      a.     Preserve open space
      b.     Keep the rural atmosphere and feel
      c.     Meshing of ideas, differences of persons and still good ideas

15.   Any final comments relative to concerns that you would like to have considered
      in the General Plan study?

      a.     Impact on adjacent community
      b.     Keep the Federal Government out
      c.     Keep the rural feeling




                                            13
         WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY SURVEY ANALYSIS
                             FOR
                 THE AREA OF EAST ENTERPRISE
                          2010 - 2011

On August 24, 2010, staff members of the county planning department met with citizens
of the area of East Enterprise at the county library in Enterprise City. The group was
small, but those present entered into a discussion of the East Enterprise area of
Washington County. Questionnaires were completed by those in attendance with others
able to submit the same the same information over the internet or to fill out the form and
submit it to the county planning office.

Following is a summary of the questions and the comments that were responded to by
those present.

There were very few questionnaires filled out at the meeting, and even less that were
subsequently submitted to the county. The statistical review was small enough that the
validity of the information contained therein may be somewhat questionable.
Nevertheless, following is a review of the information collected.

The length of time that residents have lived in the area was rather long with an average of
37 years. This is greater than most of the unincorporated communities in the county.

The average family size indicated was five. This is more than double the average county
family size which is very close to three. It is more likely that the overall family size in
this area, if all residents responded, would be closer to the county average.

There are many reasons for living in this area of the county. The major reasons given by
the residents of this area were being close to family or friends, liking the open space, a
safe environment, and a small town atmosphere. These are all valid reasons for living
here and are similar to most of the unincorporated communities in the county.

As to how to maintain the characteristics that most people enjoy, answers include:
controlling growth, asking residents to "not sell" their property, and developing and
enforcing good zoning regulations.

The same response relative to farm land included the following as to how to protect the
farm land: Create buffer zones around the farms, let owners decide whether or not to
keep it agricultural. This last comment would be contradictory with the ways to protect
the rural atmosphere of the area. If owners are being encouraged not to sell their land, on
the other hand, how do you give farmers the choice to farm or not. These are some of the
decisions that need to be made in the area.




                                            14
Some of the respondents to the questionnaire felt that it would be nice to have walking
and bicycle trails in the area while the majority of those filling out questionnaires felt that
these trails are not necessary. The decision should be left op to the residents.
In the area of traffic safety, OHV use, road conditions, etc., none of these situations
raised to the height of a major concern in the area. Some of the conditions had some
concern, but none were raised to the area of a major concern. One additional concern
was raised by a respondent, namely that of making sure that plans for new streets be
coordinated with the street plan of the City of Enterprise. This is a good
recommendation.

There does not seem to be the same opposition to commercial or industrial development
in east Enterprise that has occurred in other unincorporated communities in the county.
To have no commercial was mentioned. On the other hand, several comments were made
relative to having commercial or industrial development in the area as long as it is of a
non-polluting variety. A valid comment was that local residents should give input as to
where such development should take place, and to have their comments strongly
considered.

Questionnaire respondents were asked to respond to their satisfaction, or lack thereof,
with a number of public services including such things as ambulance service, drinking
water, electrical power, fire protection, garbage collection, law enforcement, postal
service, school transportation, telephone and cellular service. The only public service
that received approval from everyone was Garbage collection. Telephone service was
also rated quite high. Most of the public services rated satisfactory responses. Cell
phone service was about as low as any service was rated, but even this service was given
a reasonable rating depending on your phone company and where you lived.

The question related to providing recreation facilities received a no response higher than
a yes response. There were several facilities mentioned that would be desirable to many
residents. These facilities included a community recreation center, a pool, and a park
were all facilities that were suggested.

How to let residents know of upcoming events or county information showed that posting
at the store (in Enterprise) would be the best way of letting people know of things that
they needed to know about. Posting notices at the post office was the next highest
method of informing people suggested.

East Enterprise is the only unincorporated area where the majority of those filling in the
questionnaire actually attended the Vision Dixie planning program. This was an
encouraging sign. Several things were mentioned as positive things coming from the
study which included preserving open space, keeping a rural feel to the area, and sharing
ideas with people with different thoughts and backgrounds.

Final comments from the questionnaire included keeping the Federal Government out of
the area, keep a rural feeling, and determine the impact of east Enterprise on the City of
Enterprise which is adjacent.



                                              15
