         THE GENERAL PLAN
                 FOR
       THE COMMUNITY OF VEYO
              2010 - 2011

A Part of the Washington County General Plan
                    2010




                   Prepared by
              The Washington County
               Planning Department
                    THE VEYO COMMUNITY GENERAL PLAN
                                2010 - 2011

Introduction:

Veyo is an unincorporated part of Washington County. Residents and others should take
time to review Section I of the Washington County General Plan which discusses
planning in general, the basis for planning, and the purpose of planning. Many of the
things mentioned in the beginning of Section VII are also relevant to residents of this part
of the county. The General Plan of the Veyo community provides guidelines for the
future for this particular part of the county in addition to those things that are applied
county wide in the other sections of the General Plan.

In 1911, James L. Bunker filed on water from the Santa Clara and a homestead of 160
acres. He was joined by John Hunt who also filed on 160 acres, and Stephen Bunker did
the same. In addition, James Cottam Albert Bunker filed on land south of the Santa
Clara.

In 1914, James L. Bunder moved his family onto his 160 acre parcel and was the first
resident of the community. James F. Cottam also moved his family to the area in 1914
and was the first family to stay permanently on the land.

The Homestead Act allowed a person to file on 160 acres of land, and if they were able to
live on the land for three years after paying a $16.00 fee, you could then acquire an
additional 160 acres for the rate of $1.00 per acre. Over the years Veyo has developed as
a quiet, agricultural and livestock raising community. In the 1971 County General Plan,
Veyo showed a population of 95 residents. Over the past forty years, Veyo has continued
to grow and develop as a quiet community and a desirable place to live and raise a
family.

The early residents could not get approval for the chosen name for the community so
turned over the task of naming over to the "Beehive" girls. From two Bee Hive words,
verdure and youth, came the name Veyo by taking the first two letters from each word, it
was readily accepted.

Geography and topography:

Veyo is centrally located along the western corridor of Washington County. With
Winchester Hills, Diamond Valley, and Dammeron Valley located to the south of Veyo,
Brookside, Central/Dixie Deer, and Pine Valley to north and east, and Gunlock to the
west, Veyo is located in the center and crossroads of the "west side" development in
Washington County.




                                             2
Veyo is located almost mid-way between the City of St. George, and the City of
Enterprise along State Highway 18 running between these two cities in Washington
County. With all of the above factors in place, the Veyo community is well positioned to
play an important role in any significant future development along the west side of the
county.

Veyo was developed over the years as basically an agriculturally based valley. There are
still many large, open space, agricultural and livestock oriented areas in the Veyo valley.
Unlike many of the other unincorporated communities in the county, Veyo is not closely
surrounded by public land. The valley itself is privately owned without public lands
taking up much of the valley area.

There is a small amount of land in the valley under the jurisdiction of the State and
Institutional Trust Lands along with some land controlled by the Utah Department of
Wildlife Resources. Most of the other land in the valley is privately owned.

Table I on the following page identifies the land ownership in the valley and the
approximate amount of land under the jurisdiction of each land ownership.

                                      Table I
                        Land Ownership / Management in Veyo

    State of Utah - Trust Land + UDWR              39.20 acres           0.06 sq. miles
     Private, vacant, quasi public land          2,416.82 acres          3.78 sq. miles

                              Total:             2,456.02 acres           3.84 sq. miles

The private land group is made up of several kinds of development. The following
Table, Table II, shows the breakdown of the various uses in the valley.

                                        Table II
                                   Existing Land Use

                      Residential Development                  190.78 acres
                      Vacant, grazing, farming               1,818.02 acres
                      Commercial                               144.31 acres
                      Industrial                                59.98 acres

                                             Total:          2,213.09 acres

The above figures may not be totally survey accurate, but they paint a relative picture of
the various types of land use. There is still much land available for development.

Residential development in Veyo occupies about 14 % of the private land in the valley.
Vacant, undeveloped, farming and grazing land occupies over 82 percent of the total land
area, and about 3 % is devoted to industrial development.



                                             3
Agricultural Development:

The majority of the valley is available for potential agricultural development. Farming is
limited in the Veyo community, largely because of a lack of irrigation water for crop
production. Livestock grazing makes up a large amount of the land area in the valley.

Irrigation water was brought to the valley years ago when early settlers filed on Santa
Clara River water and brought the water to Veyo in an open irrigation ditch. The water
was all subscribed to and no further water shares are available except by purchase from a
current owner. Years later, the Baker Dam was construction which stabilized the water
supply, provided for supplementary water, and for an agreement with the power company
to maintain the ditch in exchange for providing water for power generation.

The amount of power developed is a small amount by comparison with the electrical
needs of the county in this period of time, but it provided power to serve the small
communities in the county at the time it was developed, and the water provided local
farmers with water to grow crops in addition to livestock grazing.

The General Plan supports continued agricultural use of land in Veyo and elsewhere in
Washington County. Crop production in the Veyo area should be protected wherever
possible. Land owners involved in farming should make certain that their land is classed
in a green belt classification to protect against increases in land value until such time as
the land is sold. If farming is a nuisance to neighbors, the land may be placed in an
agricultural protection classification which gives protection for the continuance of
necessary agricultural operations in the event that non-agricultural development takes
place nearby.

In more recent years, conservation easements have been placed on agricultural land
which allows the owner to continue with agricultural use of their land and, at the same
time, compensate them for value that they might otherwise receive by selling the land for
development.

The residents of the community have strongly supported the continued use of land for
agricultural purposes. The above methods, along with others that may be suggested,
should be followed in the protection of the agricultural base of the community.

The amount of irrigation water in Veyo is limited. All of the water was subscribed to and
allocated at the time the Dam was constructed. Some shares have been sold to others
over the years, but there is not enough irrigation water in the valley to irrigate all of the
land that could be used for farming. As a result, much of the land is, instead, used for
livestock raising and to provide grazing for livestock animals.




                                              4
Residential Development and population considerations:

There are currently 73 building lots in recorded subdivisions in Veyo. There are only
three recorded subdivisions in the valley. These include the following:
    • Old Spanish Trails Subdivision which was recorded in 1973 and contains 43 lots.
    • Lava Ridge Subdivision which was recorded in 1974 and contains 18 lots.
    • Chadburn Subdivision which was recorded in 1979 and contains 11 lots.
        Three of those lots have been divided into 5 additional lots.

In these three subdivisions there are currently 11 vacant lots in Old Spanish Trails
Subdivision, 4 vacant lots in the Lava Ridge subdivision, and 16 vacant lots in the
Chadburn Subdivision, for a total of 31 vacant lots in the three subdivisions. This leaves
a total of 42 homes in the existing subdivisions.

There have been a number of lots sold be metes and bounds outside of the three
subdivisions. This number is somewhere in the range of 45 additional lots with homes on
them in the Veyo valley. These numbers total about 42 homes in the three subdivisions
along with 45 outside the subdivisions for an approximate total of 86 dwelling units in
Veyo.

The average family size in Veyo according to the completed questionnaires is 4 members
per family. This is about one person per family greater than the county average. Using
the county average of about 3 residents per dwelling unit, it would project a current
population in Veyo of about 258 residents. Using an average family size of 4, the
population would be about 348 residents.

Over the past ten years there have been 40 building permits issued in the Veyo area. If
this same pattern continued for the next ten years, the community of Veyo could expect
to have an additional 120 to 160 new residents over the next ten year period.

There are currently 31vacant building lots in the existing Veyo subdivisions. This would
provide 90 - 120 residents if no new development happens, and only the existing lots are
built on. Rarely do subdivisions build out to a 100% density total.

There have been no new residential developments in the community of Veyo since 1979.
One of the reasons for little growth over the past ten years is a lack of culinary water.
Many of the surrounding communities have been developed in whole or in part since
1979. With all of the new development in Washington County in the past 40 years, it
could be viewed as a little strange that such an attractive valley as the Veyo valley would
have no new subdivision during the last 30 or 40 years. If sufficient water was available
to support development and growth, it could be expected that there would have been
significantly more growth than has actually taken place.




                                             5
Population Density:

The projection of existing population and projected population are discussed above. The
projected population above shows one of the lowest population densities of any of the
unincorporated communities in the county. With a population of 250 to 350 residents
and a land area of 2,213 acres, the density is over 7 acres per dwelling unit. That is a very
low density by any standard of measurement. .

Vision Dixie Summary:

 According to the responses from the questionnaire circulated in the community, only a
few of the residents participated in the Vision Dixie Study that was undertaken by the
county a few years ago. The outgrowth of the study and recommendations by the
committee charged with reviewing the material collected was a series of guidelines and
policies aimed at guiding future growth in the county. The summary of the Vision Dixie
study, adopted by the county and most of the incorporated cities and towns in the county
is summarized for the residents of Veyo as follows:

1.     Plan Regionally, Implement locally - The General Plan for Veyo is a locally
       prepared plan for this area of the county only, and is a part of the overall county
       General Plan. It deals with aspects of the future of Veyo and may be amended
       from time to time as necessary, dealing with the concerns of the Veyo community
       and not the county at large.

2.     Maintain air and water quality, and conserve water - The Veyo area has a high
       standard of air quality. The low population density of Veyo and the separation of
       Veyo from other more urban areas of the county, help to maintain good air quality
       in Veyo. Water conservation is necessary in Veyo because of the limited amount
       of water that is available in the community.

3.     Guard our signature landscapes - With one exception, the surrounding hillsides of
       Veyo are maintained in an open space category on public land. Some years ago,
       the natural gas company requested construction of a pressurization station on the
       hillside west of Veyo, and received permission for the construction of this station.
       It is visible from the community of Veyo, and should not have been approved
       in that location. With the Vision Dixie Principles in place, it can be expected that
       there will be no further developments approved in the Veyo community view-
       shed.

 4.    Provide connected natural recreation areas and open spaces - This is covered by
       the previous item in protection of the view-shed surrounding the valley. It should
       be protected and maintained.

5.      Build a balanced transportation system. - There is presently no public
       transportation system serving the Veyo community. Public transportation may
       sometime come between St. George City and Enterprise City. If such



                                              6
       transportation system was in existence, Veyo would obviously be involved. At
       this point in time, such service will not likely take place during the period of this
       General Plan.

6.     Get centered by focusing on growth in walk-able mixed use centers - The center
       of Veyo is walkable, under the Vision Dixie Principles, to many of the residential
       dwellings in the valley. The study recommended that all dwellings should be
       within three-quarters of a mile from a commercial center. If the entire valley is
       developed, additional commercial centers should exist at various points within the
       valley. Further discussion of commerce in Veyo will be discussed following in
       the section dealing with commercial development.

7.     Direct growth inward - This policy is generally being followed in Veyo. Within
       the Veyo valley, residential development is generally contained to those areas of
       the valley adjacent to the State Highway and the country road that intersect in the
       center of the residential portion of the valley. Other development, if additional
       development takes place in the future, should be encouraged to grow outward
       from the "center" of the current growth area and not to "leapfrog" to far corners of
       the valley with no infill of development in between.

8.     Provide a wide range of housing types - This policy works well in the urbanized
       portions of the county where sewer service is available. In Veyo, where homes
       are on septic tanks for waste disposal, these septic tanks would not support large
       blocks of multiple family dwellings. A sewer system for waste disposal is not
       needed in Veyo at this point of time.

9.     Reserve areas for industry - Veyo identified areas for industrial development that
       are located in an area away from the residential development in the community.
       The type of industry which includes cinders and rock products seems to work
       well in the area in which it is located. These industries do not require freeway
       access on a regular basis which makes it possible for them to work well in the
       Veyo community. Most of the unincorporated communities in the county are
       basically a subdivision development. This is not the case of development in
       Veyo.

10.    Public Land Conversion - The Veyo valley is made up of private property. The
       public land surrounding the valley has not been identified as being necessary to
       the future growth and development of the Veyo community.

Commercial Development:

One goal of the Vision Dixie Plan is to try to make communities as sustainable as
possible. This means that residents should be able to find work where they live, and that
circulation through the community might be better with walking and bike trails as
opposed to automobiles.




                                             7
Relative to commercial development in Veyo, the questionnaires returned by the
residents attending the planning meeting held in Veyo last summer indicated that there
was mixed feelings relative to commercial development in the community. Many
suggested that no more commercial development was needed, and others suggested a
rather broad range of additional commercial facilities that they would like to see
developed in Veyo.

One interesting fact that has been revealed through the General Plan process in
surrounding unincorporated communities is that while most of these areas have very
little, if any, commercial development of their own, most recommended that future
commercial development take place in Veyo or St. George.

South of Veyo is three other communities, Winchester Hills, Diamond Valley, and
Dammeron Valley. North of Veyo is three other communities including Pine Valley,
Central/Dixie Deer, and Brookside/Pine Valley Mountain Farms. To the west of Veyo
lies the community of Gunlock. Each of the areas identifies Veyo as a potential
commercial area to serve their community. Based upon the Vision Dixie Plan, Satellite
commercial areas are needed to support commercial centers. Obviously St. George is a
major commercial center in Washington County. By the same token, Veyo fits the model
rather perfectly as a satellite commercial center to serve a certain section of the county.

There may be some question as to just where there is sufficient land available to provide
for additional commercial development in the Veyo community, in addition to the
development that already exists at the major intersection with State Highway 18 and the
county road to Gunlock. The General Plan recommends that Veyo be identified as a
satellite commercial center for the communities making up the "west side" of Washington
County. The community may want to survey the area to determine how much additional
commercial development could take place near the center of the existing community, or
where in proximity to this area additional development could take place.

The residents of Veyo should keep in mind the fact that commercial development is
largely determined by economics. When someone determines that there is a sufficient
demand for a certain commercial business, they will seek to develop that particular
business. Until someone decides that there is economic potential for a business, no
development will take place. There is currently no rush to develop in Veyo.

Industrial Development:

Industrial development in Veyo in terms of a typical industrial park development
containing a cross section of industrial businesses does not exist in Veyo, and is not
expected to take place. Industrial development, in normal terms, requires transportation
from the industrial site to the market. Most industrial industry areas require access to
ground transportations (freeways), or air transportation (airports). Veyo does not have
ready access to either of these basic needs.




                                             8
Industry in Veyo is tied to natural resources that are available in the surrounding area,
and are not tied to either large truck transportation or air transportation to sell the product
that is being developed at industrial sites in Veyo. The existing business fit the location
in Veyo, and the General Plan recommends that those types of industries that are
compatible with the industrial surroundings continue to be encouraged to locate in the
Veyo industrial area.

Public Services:

A section on public services, as they relate county-wide, is found at the beginning of
Section VII of the Washington County General Plan. Some comments that may
specifically relate to the Veyo valley are re-stated here as they relate specifically to this
community.

Electricity:

Electric service to Veyo is provided by the Rocky Mountain power company. This
company has recently upgraded their distribution lines from the Red Butte distribution
center. They are in the process of upgrading their main distribution line from the sub-
station at Sigurd, Utah, to the Red Butte sub-station located near the Central/Dixie Deer
community. With this upgrade in place, the power company feels that it will be in a
position to provide electrical service to the west side of the county for a long time to
come. The residents of Veyo generally gave their electrical system good marks in terms
of reliable service to the community. The ability to provide good service to the residents
of Veyo should continue for many years to come.

Natural Gas:

There is a major natural gas distribution line that currently parallels State Highway 18
and runs between the Red Butte sub-station near the Central/Dixie Deer community, and
joins a comparable line coming into the county from the east side of the Pine Valley
Mountains that serves communities on the east side of the county and which come
together in the St. George area. These lines provide a stable source of natural gas to the
county and to most of the communities therein.

Water:

Water to the Veyo community is provided by a private water company who sells shares
to land owners who request to purchase shares. The owners of the water shares become
the owners of the water company. The water company obtains most of the culinary water
from springs located to the north and east of the valley, and stores water in four different
storage tanks located at various points throughout the valley.

Water from the Veyo Water Company also provides water to a part of the Brookside
subdivision. The Pine Valley Mountain farms water company also provides water to a
portion of the Brookside subdivision.



                                               9
The limited amount of water available for purchase is the single most limiting factor to
additional development in Veyo. The Washington County Water Development District
has talked from time to time about running a water line along Highway 18 going north
from St. George to serve communities along such a line. The intent of the District is to
provide supplementary water to communities who need additional water in the case of a
breakdown in their local system, or to support additional development. The General
Plan does not recommend that water systems be turned over to the Water District, but that
they would be able to purchase supplementary water and add it to their systems should
the need arise.

There is a limited amount of irrigation water available to some parts of the Veyo area.
This water is limited to the extent that it does not allow for unlimited farming throughout
the valley. All irrigation water is currently in use. The irrigation water does provide for
farming on a limited basis in the valley. There is no un-appropriated water in any part of
the county, including the Veyo area.

Sewage Disposal:

This public service has been discussed previously. Veyo is served by individual septic
tanks for all homes and businesses in the valley. Based on the recommendations of the
county-wide wastewater report adopted some years ago, Veyo can continue to develop
using septic tanks for many years to come as long as lots are of sufficient size for
adequate outfall lines for septic tanks. Septic tanks should be inspected on a regular basis
and pumped or outfall lines replaced as necessary to keep the system working well. On
site treatment facilities are now available as a viable alternative to a sewage collection
system. This could some day be an option for the Veyo area in the event that substantial
residential or commercial development takes place at some time.

Roads:

There is a combination of road designations in Veyo. The major highway running
through town, State Highway 18, is managed by the Utah Department of Transportation
as a State Highway. Little by little, UDOT has been widening this highway to improve
traffic movement, particularly moving northward out of St. George, for some time. Over
time, this widening should continue all the way to the City of Enterprise, or at a minimum
to the Pine Valley turn off in Central.

It may be difficult to widen this highway to four lanes through the central part of Veyo,
but it could be needed as the volume of traffic continues to increase from north to south
in Washington County.

One major county road exists through the community of Veyo. This is the county road
that runs westward from Veyo to Gunlock. Widening of this highway from two to four
lanes is not anticipated at any time in the future of the General Plan for Veyo, and with




                                            10
minimum improvements over time, should be sufficient to serve the commuting needs
between Veyo and Gunlock.

Other county roads include the local street system in the Veyo area. Most of these roads
have been paved and are maintained in that condition by the county. This maintenance
level should be continued.

The policy of the county for many, many years has to maintain county roads in the same
condition and degree of improvement that they were in at the time the subdivisions were
recorded. The Lava Ridge subdivision falls into that category. For whatever reason, that
road was dedicated but accepted without being paved. It will be maintained in that
condition unless and until such time as land owners along that roadway cause the road to
be improved, after which time the county will maintain the road in the improved
condition.

Veyo also has one subdivision, Old Spanish Trails, which has private streets. These
streets were left as private streets at the time the subdivision was developed at the request
of the developer. Therefore, they are not maintained by the county. Some requests come
from time to time to have the county accept dedication of these roads. If that happened,
they would be maintained in the same condition as they are today.

There are some benefits to private roads. Usually traffic is less on private roads. As
areas for people to go to walk without higher traffic levels, they can be very attractive.
There may be good reason for the property owners in this subdivision to keep the roads
private. Or, on the other hand, a small assessment to the property owners could provide
funds for minimum improvement to these roads, as necessary, and they may be very
satisfactory as private roads which they have been for some forty years now.

Fire Protection:

The community of Veyo operates its own volunteer fire department. It is a part of the
North West Fire District. In recent years, Veyo has constructed a new fire station located
on the north side of Center Street just a little way east of the center of town.

The volunteer department participates with the Washington County Fire Chief's
Association. The 10 volunteer members of the department participate in training with the
District.

The new fire station contains one pumper truck and two brush trucks. The department
has also obtained safety equipment for the use of the volunteers during actual fire
fighting. The Veyo department is also on call to assist with fires outside of the Veyo area
as may be needed to assist fire departments elsewhere in the county. The department
continues to make efforts to improve and enlarge to meet the needs of the Veyo area.




                                             11
Public Safety:

Police protection in Veyo is provided by the Washington County Sheriff's Office. This
service will continue as long as Veyo continues as an unincorporated part of Washington
County. Some communities in the county desiring greater protection have contracted
with the county to increase the amount of sheriff's visibility in their community through a
specific contract calling for more sheriffs’ protection in exchange for additional funds
being raised by the community.

Solid Waste:

The county solid waste board is made up of one representative from each city or town,
along with one member from the county, oversee the collection of solid waste in the
county. This board contracts with a private company to provide the collection of waste in
the county. There is a central landfill location which is owned by Washington County
and managed by the solid waste company. This site is expected to be sufficient for many
years to come. The system of management and oversight is also expected to continue.
Overall, the solid waste program in Washington County is recommended by the General
Plan and currently works very well.

Building Inspection:

Building inspection for dwelling units and other types of building construction are
provided by the county building department. The cost of building permits is established
to defray the cost of inspection during the period of construction. Building permit fees in
the unincorporated communities are significantly less than found inmost of the
incorporated cities and towns in the county.

Communication:

Most of Washington County is served by the CenturyLink communication company. In
addition to CenturyLink services, there are a number of private cellular companies
providing service within the county. Citizen response to the planning questionnaire
resulted in a mixed response to the question of cellular services. This undoubtedly
depends upon what cellular system a person uses. However it would appear that the
communications in Veyo are generally adequate, with the General Plan recommending
that communication providers continue to upgrade their services to the Veyo area.

Flood Control:

Veyo appears to be one community in the county that is not severely impact with
flooding problems. The Santa Clara River canyon through the Veyo area is generally
quite deep which tends to minimize the problem of flooding.




                                            12
Cemetery, Parks, and Recreation:

A cemetery in Veyo is located towards the easterly end of town and is maintained in
connection with a park site that exists adjacent to the cemetery. The adjacent park site
has been developed by residents of the community and provides a certain need for park
and recreation development in the community.

The current park and cemetery are located on land obtained by Washington County many
years ago through the Recreation and Public Purpose Policy Act, when the county
obtained a 40 acre site in the Veyo community to allow the community to develop
additional recreation facilities. The county would deed the park to a body politic, if one
existed, with the intent that the residents of the community would work collectively to
develop additional park and recreation facilities in the area. The majority of the land is
located north of the road that intersects the land with the park and cemetery on the south
side of the road and the balance of the land on the north side.

The questionnaires submitted to the county as a part of the General Plan project listed a
number of facilities that they would like to see developed in Veyo. Many, if not all, of
the recommended facilities could be accommodated on the 40 acre tract of land that is
being held for recreation purposes. The location of this parcel of property is north, across
the street, from the current park and cemetery property.

There are also two privately owned sites in Veyo were recreation activities are available.
One of these is an arena facility located north of the community center where equestrian
activities are held from time to time. The other site is the well known Veyo Pool, located
south of the Santa Clara River and east of the State Highway.

The Veyo Pool property was homesteaded by the Cottam family, and a warm spring was
found coming out of the black lava canyon which was on the property. The family took
three years to construct a family pool. A year and one-half later, it was changed to a
public pool with a .15 cent admission price. Over the years it was enlarged a couple of
time to its current size of 28 feet by 70 feet. The Pool development has been one of the
well known recreation sites for swimming, picnicking, and other recreation activities in
the county, and was the one thing that made Veyo a well known community. For many
years it was the only public swimming pool in Washington County. As other facilities
have developed in recent years, the Veyo Pool has diminished in prominence, but for
many, many, years the pool served as a prime recreation site for residents of Washington
County.

Incorporation:

One final issue related to public services is the question of incorporation. Under Utah
State law, a petition for incorporation must originate from within the community that
desires to pursue this alternative. Whether or not this is an alternative that should be
considered further is a decision of the residents of Veyo. Incorporation has been
considered once or twice in past years, but has not reached fruition. The county does not



                                            13
promote incorporation, nor does it oppose incorporation. That is a decision that is left
totally up the residents of the area where incorporation is being discussed or considered.

The county does feel that government that is closest to the people is the best form of
government. Veyo does have a minimal local tax base that could help support
incorporation, and this tax base will likely continue to increase as the satellite commercial
concept for the Veyo continues to grow in coming years.

In each area of the county where planning meetings have been held with the residents, it
has been expressed that the residents would like to keep things just as they are.
Physically, most of these unincorporated areas have changed very little over a long period
of time. However, the residents of these communities continue to grow older, and in
most cases, the replacement by new younger families does not take place. Therefore, to
keep things just as they are is something that is not possible to happen.

The question is not whether things change, but rather, "Will we as citizens of a given area
be prepared to give direction and input to change when it happens, or will we sit back and
wait until something happens, and then wish that we bad been able to do something about
the change after it has taken place."

To be aware of what is happening, and to give citizen input to projected change before it
takes place is the opportunity for the residents of this community as a result of the
General Plan study that is contained herein.




                                             14
         WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY SURVEY ANALYSIS
                              FOR
                    THE COMMUNITY OF VEYO
                           2010 - 2011

A meeting was held at the Veyo Water District Office on August 18, 2010. Most of those
who attended the meeting filled out the questionnaire that was passed out to those in
attendance. The forms could also be submitted on the county web site.

Following is an analysis of the forms that have been received by the county up to the
present time.

1.     Residency status:

       There was a rather broad range of residents attending the meeting in 2010 ranging
       from one to 50 years. Many of those attending had lived there for a large number
       of years with an average residence of about 14 years.

2.     Reasons for living in Veyo:

       The like for open space and a quiet community were the greatest reasons given
       for living in Veyo. Other reasons rating high by residents included the
       opportunity to keep livestock animals, a safe community and the small town
       atmosphere were also given high ratings. Other reasons receiving votes included
       living close to the mountains, and being close to family, friends, or neighbors.
       The lowest reasons for living in Veyo came from those born and raised there, and
       opportunities for recreation. There were additional reasons given by residents that
       were not shown in the questionnaire were such things as less restrictions, a
       beautiful valley, a place safe for children, clean air, being able to have gardens,
       orchards, pastures, chickens, cows, and putting up clothes lines, though the
       consultant wasn't aware that they were illegal elsewhere. All of the reasons given
       were good reasons for calling Veyo home.

3.     Should the rural atmosphere be preserved?

       This question was nearly unanimous in wanting to keep the rural atmosphere and
       to keep the community as it is.

       Some of the methods to maintain the rural character would indicate a lack of
       understanding of county policy.
       1.       No curb, gutter, or sidewalk - The County will not require these
       improvements on any of the current roadways in Veyo. The county will only
       require improvements if they are requested by the residents along a particular




                                           15
     street, in which case the improvements will be paid for by those receiving the
     benefit of the improvement.
     2.       Leave the area alone - The County neither sponsor nor encourages any
     specific development. Developments are proposed by land owners. No land
     development will be started by the county.
     3.       Lower taxes - Space here does not permit a basic class on tax revenue in
     the State of Utah. Re-evaluation is mandated by the State of Utah. The General
     Fund property tax rate in Washington County has not been raised in the past
     decade, and in fact, the levy actually goes down each year based upon the Utah
     State tax formula.
     4.       Let the town make its own decisions - The best way to do this is for the
     community to incorporate. To incorporate or not is a community decision. The
     county will support whatever decision the community might make at some time.
     5.       Require minimum sized lots - This could be done in connection with any
     new development that is proposed for the area. The county however does not
     sponsor new development, and it is not likely that currently platter parcels will be
     re-zoned to a lower density because existing lots are what they are.
     6.       Limit water connections - Veyo maintains and operates its own water
     company. The company could limit connections based upon availability.
     However, a lot owner has the same right to a water connection should they decide
     to build, as does a current homeowner.
     7.       Allow no "cookie cutter" lots - This could happen if a development is
     proposed for the valley.

4.   Should farmland be preserved?

     The response to this question was, if anything, a greater majority in favor of
     preserving the agriculture than to maintain the rural character. Some of the ways
     to do this are a repeat of those in question #3 above. Others methods suggested
     include the following:
     1.      Have no land regulations - This would not serve to preserve farm areas.
     They would than be developed randomly and eventually the farm area would
     disappear.
     2.      Encourage livestock - In the agricultural areas livestock are a permitted
     use. It is not the purpose of the county to either encourage or discourage the
     keeping of livestock. If livestock keeping disappears from the valley, it will be
     done by the live stock owners selling their animals, or no livestock owners
     pressuring the livestock owners to eliminate the animals. This is not a county
     decision under the current ordinances.
     3.      Let owners decide - Whether or not to keep farming is a decision that will
     be made by the land owner. These are protections available for owners who want
     to farm. These include greenbelt designations, and the creation of agricultural
     protection areas which the county can assist in creating. The request for either of
     these methods begins with the land owner desiring protection. There are also land
     preserves which are done privately, but which will also provide continued use of
     farmland if the land owner is interested in pursuing them.



                                          16
5.    Would you favor a system of walking/bicycle trails?

      The questionnaire response reflects some disagreement among respondents. A
      large majority feel that they are not necessary, and that the roads and trails in the
      community are adequate. This is a question that could be re-visited on a
      community basis.

6.    Concerns about various public issues.

      For a majority of these issues the residents responded that there would not appear
      to be a significant concern. The only issue receiving a high number or responses
      related to the unsafe use of OHV's in the community. The solution to this concern
      would appear to be a local education program to bring the problem to the attention
      of the residents who can best control the problem with their family members.

7.    The question of commercial or industrial business also brought a divergence of
      opinion. Many said not to additional commercial use while others identified a
      desire for a variety of commercial businesses in the community. Whether any of
      these businesses would want to come to Veyo, depends upon the economic
      benefits to a developer as to whether or not they are feasible. If commercial
      development is proposed, the county would not likely oppose approving the
      business based on the community response.

8.    Where should commercial be located?

      There is not a lot of vacant land in the existing community center. Any site would
      need to be acceptable to the residents.

9.    Experience with local public services.

      Most of these services currently have a good service rating. All of the
      services should continue to make improvements to make their service better.
      None of the public services listed were given low ratings.

10.   Should the community provide recreation services?

      Most respondents said No. However a few listed things that they felt would be
      desirable. Keep in mind that there is a significant amount of park area in the
      community at this time. All it requires is someone to promote the development of
      some of the facilities that were suggested, or other facilities that would benefit the
      community.

11.   Facilities that could be provided. See comments in #10 above.




                                            17
12.   How to best be informed about meetings.

      Posting at the mail boxes and word of mouth were the highest recommended
      methods. Residents need to become more used to using the county web site for
      Staying informed. Mail is not an acceptable method because of the cost
      associated with mailing notices to all county residents.

13.   Did you participate with the Vision Dixie planning program?

      Most indicated that they did not, but a few residents indicated that they did
      participate. Of the "Westside" unincorporated communities, Veyo is the only one
      where citizens participated in the planning program. It is the residents of the
      community, or those acquiring land in the community, who make decisions as to
      what they want to do with their land. If left in the hands of the county, no
      changes will be made.

14.   If you participated - your comments.         See #13 above for comments.

15.   Other comments.

      1.       To have the county "stay out of our business", and have less county
      government, implies that the community should seriously consider incorporation.
      2.       To have competition for telephone services in beyond the authority of
      county government.
      3.       The water system is not a county water system. The county has no
      authority to tell the water company that improvements are necessary.
      4.       Survey of existing property lines is an issue of the State rather than the
      county. Disputes between property owners relative to property lines are a civil
      matter to which the county is not a participant.
      5.       500 North was originally approved as an unpaved road. If the property
      owners along this street would like to have it paved, the county could help
      facilitate doing so, but the county will continue to maintain county roads in the
      manner in which they were originally dedicated.,
      6.       The road running west out of Veyo is a county road. The road running
      north and south through town is a State Highway. Any change in that speed limit
      on State Highway 18 would be a decision by the Utah State Department of
      Transportation.




                                          18
     WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY STATISTICAL SURVEY
                           FOR
                 THE COMMUNITY OF VEYO
                        2010 - 2011

1.   Residency status:

     a.     How long have you lived in this area?                    14 years average
     b.     Number in family:                                         4 member average
     c.     Homeowners:                                              86.8 %
     d.     Land owners only                                          2.6 %

2.   Reasons for living in the Veyo area:

     a.     Born or raised in the area                              55.2 %
     b.     Close to family, friends, or neighbors                  76.3 %
     c.     Close to mountains, etc.                                76.3 %
     d.     Like open space                                         97.3 %
     e.     Opportunity to keep animals                             81.5 %
     f.     Quiet community                                         97.3 %
     g.     Recreational opportunities                              52.6 %
     h.     Safe community                                          86.6 %
     i.     Small town atmosphere                                   84.2 %
     j.     Other reasons                  less restrictions, beautiful valley, safe for
            kids, clean air, can have clothes lines; can have gardens, orchards,
            pastures, chickens, cows, clean air.

3.   Should the rural atmosphere be preserved? Yes          86.6 %          No      2.6 %

     How should it be done?        No curb, gutter, or sidewalk, leave the area alone,
     lower taxes, let the town make their own decisions, keep it as it is, require
     minimum sized lots, have no land use regulations, limit water connections, allow
     no "cookie cutter" subdivision lots.

4.   Should farmland be preserved?                  Yes     86.6 %          No      --

     How should it be done?         Leave it alone, lower taxes, keep the open space,
     have no land use regulations, let farmers control their property, have less
     expensive water, encourage livestock, no curb, gutter, or sidewalks, let lots keep
     their water, let land owners decide.

5.   Would you favor developing a system of walking/bicycle trails throughout the
     community?          Yes 13.1 %            No     71.0 %




                                            19
6.   Mark on a scale of 1 to 5 your concerns on each of the following: traffic, safety,
     street and road conditions, unsafe OHV use, and street dedication. 5 = most
     concerned, 1 = least concerned, 0 = no perceived problem.

     a.     Off-highway vehicles on streets - 0 = 52.6 %, 5 = 5.2 %, 4 = 2.6 %, 3 =
            2.6 %, 2 = 10.5 %, 1 = 5.2 %
     b.     Speed/traffic control - 0 = 47.3 %, 5 = 13.3 %, 4 = 2.6 %, 2 = 18.4 %,
            1 = 10.5 %
     c.     Road conditions - 0 = 34.2 %, 5 = 26.3 %, 4 = 7.8 %, 3 = 7.8 %,
            2 = 5.2 %, 1 = 13.1 %
     d.     Unsafe OHV use - 0 = 50.0 %, 5 = 5.2 %, 4 = 5.2 %. 3 = 5.2 %,
            2 = 7.8 %, 1 = 13.1 %
     e.     Road dedication - 0 = 50 %, 5 = 13.1 %, 4 = 2.6 %, 1 = 10.5 %,
     f.     Other - large trucks on street, with low maintenance, pave and maintain
            roads

7.   Desired commercial or industrial business: None (many times), leave alone, we
     have all we need, a grocery store, a car wash, a saw mill, an oil refinery, a
     commercial airport, create a county commercial district, locate out of Veyo,
     none, we need more, we live close enough to St. George, hardware store,
     plumbing supply, auto arts store, lawn and garden store, restaurant,

8.   Where should commercial development be located: North of town, along
     Highway 18, in St. George, Wherever someone wants, way out of the
     community, or the center of town?

9.   Relate your experience with local services as they relate to your area:
     Excellent = 5, Poor = 1, 0 = No experience.

     a.     Ambulance - 0 = 28.9 %, 5 = 26.3 %, 4 = 10.5 %, 3 = 13.3 %, 2 = 10.5 %,
            1 = 10.5 %
     b.     Drinking water service and quality - 5 = 52.6 %, 4 = 26.3 %, 3 = 26.3%,
            1 = 2.6 %
     c.     Electrical power - 5 = 28.9 %, 4 = 28.9 %, 3 = 18.4 %, 2 = 7.8 %,
            1 = 7.8 %
     d.     Fire protection - 5 = 39.4 %, 4 = 21.0 %, 3 = 18.4 %, 2 = 2.6 %,
            1 = 10.5 %
     e.     Garbage collection - 0 = 5.2 %, 5 = 47.3 %, 4 = 13.1 %, 3 = 21.0 %,
            1 = 5.2 %
     f.     Law enforcement - 0 = 7.8 %, 5 = 31.5 %, 4 = 12.8 %, 3 = 15.7 %,
            2 = 2.6 %, 1 = 10.5 %
     g.     Postal service - 0 = 2.6 %, 5 = 39.4 %, 4 = 21.0 %, 3 = 15.7 %, 2 = 2.6 %,
            1 = 13.3 %
     h.     School transportation - 0 = 10.5 %, 5 = 39.4 %, 4 = 18.4 %, 3 = 7.8 %,



                                          20
             1 = 5.2 %

      i.     Telephone service - 0 = 2.6 %, 5 = 52.6 %, 4 = 18.4 %, 3 = 2.6 %.
             2 = 5.2 %, 1 = 2.6 %
      j.     Cellular service - 0 = 2.6 %, 5 = 23.6 %, 4 = 23.1 %, 3 = 26.0 %,
             2 = 2.6 %, 1 = 10.5 %
      k.     Other services: garbage removal, enforce against unlicensed vehicles

10.   Should the community consider providing recreation services?          Yes     21.0%

      No     68.4 %

11.   List services that could be provided - Park (many times), public airport, ball
      fields, play equipment, rodeo arena, something to bring in money, recreation
      center, weight lifting, track, bowling alley, small library, pool tables, more park
      development

12.   How can you be best informed about meetings?

      a.     Word of mouth                                 63.1 %
      b.     Posting at the fire station                   36.8 %
      c.     Posting at the store                          52.6 %
      d.     At the mail boxes                             84.2 %
      e.     County web site                               26.3 %
      f.     Other: At the church, in church bulletins, e-mail to residents, U. S. Mail to
             residents, to the town council - have them tell others, newspaper

13.   Did you participate in the Vision Dixie planning program?      Yes 26.3 %
      No     71.0 %

14.   If you participated - your comments:        It was useful, we need to clean up,
      we need enforcement of current ordinances, let the residents decide where
      development is proposed

15.   Final comments:         Stay out of our business, less government, have
      competition for telephone services and not a monopoly, upgrade the water
      system, don't raise taxes, leave us alone, improvements should be made at the
      local level, improvements should be made at the town level, we need less
      restrictions, after twenty years, fence lines should be legal property lines. 500
      North should be chip sealed, the county road has a 25 mph speed limit in town,
      and State Highway 18 has a 40 mile an hour speed limit in the same area.




                                           21
