THE GENERAL PLAN
       FOR
 THE KOLOB AREA
     2010-2011




        Prepared by
   The Washington County
    Planning Department
Introduction:

In 2010 Washington County undertook the development of a General Plan for each of the
thirteen unincorporated community areas in Washington County. The Kolob area of the
county is one of the unincorporated areas containing many dwelling units even though
there are currently no year-around residents of the area.

The Kolob mountain portion of the county provides summer residences for many
residents of the county as well as for many of the residents of southern Nevada, including
Clark County and the Las Vegas area. During the summer months, the Kolob area of the
county has many residents at any particular point in time. Kolob is identified as a viable
part of Washington County, and has therefore been identified as one of the
unincorporated areas of the county where a plan should be prepared.

This part of the county has developed over a long period of time and has always seemed
to be slightly dis-organized. This may be because the development has been scattered
over a large distance without much unity between the various developments that have
taken place.

Geography and Topography:

Kolob is located in the northeast corner of Washington County. The area comprises
some XXXX acres, or XXXX square miles of the county. Kolob represents the largest
single block of private land in the county.

The elevation of the Kolob area is approximately 8,000 feet above sea level. The area is
bounded by Iron County to the north, Kane County to the East and Zion National Park to
the south and west. The major access to Kolob is from a roadway from the town of
Virgin along State Highway 9. This road traverses some parcels of private land, and a
large portion of the National Park, essentially terminating at the Kolob Reservoir which is
located near the southern part of the valley.

At 8,000 feet elevation, Kolob definitely has a four season climate. In fact, the winter
season is rather long. The main road to Kolob is closed by the National Park at the north
end of the Park boundary when the snow season begins and is not opened again until late
spring. Snowfall at Kolob is often eight to ten feet deep. The only access during the
winter months is by snowmobile.

At least one development made an effort to stay open year-around one winter, but has
since closed during the winter and early spring months. No one makes the area their
home on a year around basis. This makes Kolob a somewhat isolated area as a part of
Washington County which is known for mild winters and warm winter temperatures.




                                            2
Historical Background:

Washington County was first settled in 1852 with the construction of a fort in the
Harmony Valley. The original county seat of the county was at Fort Harmony near the
Iron County line. Later, development spread to the southern valleys of the county and St.
George became the eventual county seat. The eastern part of the county was originally in
the western part of what is now Kane County. The lower valleys of the county were
settled for the purpose of growing cotton during the years of the Civil War when cotton
products were not available in the Utah area. The first settlements included Swiss settlers
in the Santa Clara area and other settlers in the area of Washington City. The original
cotton mill, built to process cotton products is still located in the City of Washington.

Early settlement of the county was closely tied to the Agricultural industry and many of
the early settlers were involved in the livestock business. There were several large herds
of livestock and sheep in the early days of the county. The search for grazing land for
these animals during the summer months led to the acquisition of land holdings in the
Kolob area many years before Zion National Park was created.

At least one of these livestock producers tells that they could winter their herd in what is
now part of the City of Hurricane, and trail their animals in the summer to Kolob without
ever leaving their own land. They are still among the large land holders in the Kolob area
that still graze livestock there during the summer months.

Open Space Development:

Open space, livestock grazing, and wilderness areas

The majority of the Kolob area is undeveloped. In the county it is classed as
undeveloped open space. While much of the area is not developed in any urban manner,
it is used for livestock grazing. The advantage in the Kolob area for livestock grazing, as
opposed grazing in other parts of the county where the land is managed by a Federal
agency, is the fact that it is nearly all privately owned land. This means that the Federal
Government cannot continue to cut back on the number of animals that can be grazed on
an individual property. It is up to the land owner to manage grazing to protect the
capability of the land to continue grazing. The General Plan supports livestock grazing in
Washington County and recommends that this practice be encouraged to continue in the
Kolob area.

When the 2009 Washington County Land Bill was approved by Congress and the
President, much of the existing BLM land in the Kolob area was included as wilderness
area as was most of Zion National Park. In the entire county there were fifteen
wilderness areas that were identified and approved by Congress. Of these fifteen
wilderness areas, six are located in the Kolob area.

A complete detail of each of the wilderness areas is found in Appendix I of the County
General Plan adopted in October, 2010. In this section of the General Plan, only those



                                             3
wilderness areas in Kolob are identified, and only a minimum amount of information will
be repeated in this section of the Plan.

The wilderness areas found in the Kolob area are listed as follows:

                                       Table I
                               Wilderness areas in Kolob

                              Bear Trap Canyon                 40 acres
                              Deep Creek                    3,284 acres
                              Deep Creek North              4,062 acres
                              Goose Creek Canyon                98 acres
                              LaVerkin Creek Canyon           445 acres
                              Taylor Creek                      32 acres

                                             Total Acres:   7,561

These wilderness areas combined amount to about XXX percent of the total amount of
land identified as the Kolob area of Washington County. In addition to these areas
having been identified as wilderness in the 2009 Wilderness Bill, the streams that flow
through each wilderness area are identified as wild and scenic rivers. The only wild and
scenic rivers that have been identified in the State of Utah are currently found in
Washington County. There are 34 stream segments that were named in the Wilderness
Bill of 2009 as wild and scenic rivers. The large segments are the Virgin River flowing
through Zion National Park both from the North Fork of the Virgin River, and the East
Fork of the Virgin River are named as wild and scenic river segments. Some of the other
segments are those flowing through the six wilderness areas identified in the Kolob area
of the county.

Bear Trap Canyon, containing 40 acres, is located adjacent to Zion National Park on one
side, and by private land on the other three sides. It does contain wilderness
characteristics, but does not contain the 5,000 acres required for a wilderness area. The
deep canyon is mostly inaccessible from the private land or from inside the Park.

The Deep Creek wilderness is located in northeastern Washington County. It is adjacent
to Zion National Park on the south, to Kane County on the east, to additional wilderness
to the north, and to private land on the west. This area contains 3,284 acres.

Deep Creek contains an impressive canyon of Navajo Sandstone which dominates much
of the area. In places, the canyon rim rises 2,000 feet above the creek bottom. Access to
the canyon is from non BLM lands which are privately owned. It does contain
wilderness characteristics which, except for size, do meet wilderness qualifications.

Deep Creek North is separated from the Deep Creek wilderness area by an east-west
motorized trail that runs between the two wilderness areas. Deep Creek North contains




                                            4
4,062 acres. This wilderness area was deleted by the BLM as a wilderness study area,
but it was added back in by Congressional action without any further public input.

Deep Creek North is similar in many ways to Deep Creek south. It is essentially
surrounded by private land making access difficult. One reason that the BLM deleted
this wilderness study area from further consideration was the evidence of man that can be
seen from within the wilderness and the inaccessibility by the general public without
trespassing on private property.

Goose Creek Canyon is adjacent to Zion National Park on the south and to private land
on the other three sides. Goose Creek Canyon contains 98 acres. This parcel is isolated
from other BLM lands. The canyon rims are 2000 feet above the canyon floor. The only
access to the canyon is through Zion National Park. Goose Creek Canyon does contain
wilderness characteristics but does not contain sufficient acres to qualify, by itself, as a
wilderness area.

LaVerkin Creek Canyon is one of the larger of the Kolob wilderness areas and contains
445 acres. It is bounded by Zion National Park on the south and by private land on the
other sides. It contains 1.5 miles of LaVerkin Creek and a very small part of the Bear
Trap Canyon drainage. It is basically an "L" shaped wilderness area. The area is in a
natural condition and offers opportunity for hiking, back packing, horseback riding and
photography. Along with the National Park, it does offer opportunities for solitude
through its entire area.

Taylor Creek Canyon is the smallest of the Kolob wilderness areas. It contains only 32
acres. The area is dominated by rugged, barren slick rock terrain found at the head of a
deep drainage, the middle fork of Taylor Creek. The majority of the canyon is within the
National Park that is adjacent to Taylor Creek Canyon. High cliffs prohibit access from
this wilderness area into Zion National Park. It has natural qualities and other wilderness
characteristics, but it lacks the size requirement normally expected for wilderness areas as
do all of the other Kolob wilderness designations.

Residential Development:

Residential development did not begin to take place until 1961 when the first subdivision
plat was recorded. There were scattered livestock management cabins scattered
throughout the area in early years, but no residential subdivisions were recorded prior to
1961.

Following is a list of the subdivisions that have been recorded in the Kolob area along
with the number of lots in each subdivision. Many of these developments have been
developed in phases with the date of the first phase being listed.




                                             5
                                        Table I.
                  Subdivisions, # of lots, acres and date of recording

       1. Bastion Woodlands              1 lot                 5.00 acres   10-31-88
       2. Graceful Acres               96 lots               192.77 acres   06-30-72
       3. Home Valley Park             29 lots               193.46 acres   04-13-70
       4. Kolob Acres                  26 lots               unknown        09-16-61
       5. Kolob Grandview              10 lots               unknown        not recorded
       6. Kolob Highlands             127 lots               237.05 acres   02-16-71
       7. Kolob Pines                  48 lots               unknown        10-21-71
       8. Kolob Terrace                37 lots               unknown        09-12-65
       9. Kolob Woods                  24 lots               15.22 acres    03-04-70
       10. Owen Wrights sub.           27 lots               70.16 acres    04-13-72
       11. Peaceful Acres              93 lots               59.30 acres    04-70-71
       12. Terrace Drive               39 lots               12.6 acres     07-27-87
       13. Whispering Pines            84 lots              117.57 acres    08-21-09
       14. Woodland Retreat            48 lots              unknown         09-04-62
       15. Woody Albion                 1 lot                 3.00 acres    05-05-08
       15. Zion Panorama               91 lots              unknown         09-16-74
       16. Shady Acres metes & bounds 26 lots               unknown         unrecorded
       17. Spendlove Metes & Bounds    8 lots               unknown         unrecorded
       18. Blue Springs
       19. Kolob Mountain Ranch

The earliest subdivision on Kolob took place in 1961. A total of two subdivisions were
recorded in the 1960's. Seven more subdivisions were recorded in the 1970's. These
seven subdivisions were the most of any ten year period of time. Two subdivisions were
developed in the 1980's, and no subdivisions were recorded in the 1990's. There have
been two additional subdivisions recorded since the turn of the century in 2008 and 2009
respectively. Some early acres are not shown because they were not shown on the plat
that was recorded.

Some lots have been approved by metes and bounds in the form of a subdivision, and
there are a number of individual parcels scattered around the Kolob area that started out
as cabins used for the management of livestock grazing in the area.

Each of these residential developments is discussed briefly as follows:

1.     Kolob Acres - is a 26 lot subdivision that was recorded 09-16-61. This
       subdivision is located just east of the main road coming from Zion Park to the
       Reservoir in what could now be considered to be the "center" of the Kolob
       community.

       In 1961 there was no subdivision ordinance in Washington County. The first
       subdivision ordinance in the county was adopted about 1968. No particular




                                             6
     improvements were required in 1961. Roadways were either shale or dirt, and
     water was not a required part of any subdivision.

     The Kolob Acres subdivision today contains about 17 dwellings. All homes in
     the Kolob area are summer homes. There are no permanent residents in the Kolob
     area. All residents and residential dwellings are summer homes only. The Only
     access to the area in the winter months is via snowmobile.

2.   Kolob Grandview - is a 10 lot division of lots located on the south of, and
     immediately adjacent to, the Kolob acres subdivision that was recorded in 1961.
     For whatever reason, the lots in Kolob Grandview were sold without ever
     recording a subdivision plat. Possibly the developer was aware that the county
     did not have a subdivision ordinance and therefore decided to simply sell
     the lots without a plat being recorded.

     These lots were sold prior to the first subdivision ordinance being adopted in
     about 1968, and are known to have been in existence prior to 1966. There are
     approximately 5 dwellings in the Kolob Grandview area.

3.   Kolob Terrace.- subdivision was recorded in two phases recorded in 9-12-65 and
     8-16-66 respectively. Both phases of this development containing 37 total lots
     were recorded prior to the county having a subdivision ordinance. These early
     subdivisions started a pattern of having private roads in all subdivisions in the
     Kolob area. As a result, these roads were not well developed or maintained, but
     being private, they are not maintained by the county. In this subdivision there are
     approximately 14 homes at the present time. Kolob Terrace is located in the same
     vicinity as the two projects listed previously, but is located to the west of the
     Kolob road. This subdivision, as with most of the early developments, was
     recorded as a "dry" subdivision, meaning that no water source was required, and
     no water was provided.

4.   Kolob Woods - was developed by the same developer who developed Kolob
     Terrace. This subdivision is located north of Kolob Terrace. Kolob Woods has
     24 lots with about 14 dwelling currently having been built.

     The construction standards in this subdivision were about the same as the other
     early subdivisions even though the county had adopted a subdivision ordinance
     prior to this plat being recorded. In the original subdivision ordinance was a
     statement that all roads in the Kolob area would be private roads, and were
     specifically declined to be accepted for maintenance by the county. This
     subdivision was recorded March 4, 1970, soon after the adoption of a subdivision
     ordinance by the county.

5.   Home Valley Park - was recorded as a subdivision on April 13, 1970, shortly after
     the Kolob Woods subdivision was recorded. The construction standards were
     much the same as for the prior subdivisions. In this case, the subdivision was



                                          7
      located along the road leading to the Lava Point fire lookout that is inside of Zion
      National Park; therefore the road has been maintained better than most of the
      typical subdivision roads. Home Valley Park contains 29 lots and currently has
      11 dwellings constructed in the subdivision.

6.    Kolob Highlands - was originally developed with 127 lots and is located along the
      northern edge of Washington County, and adjacent to the Iron County Line. In
      recent years most of the subdivision has been vacated and returned to open space.
      There are still 25 lots in the recorded subdivision and 5 homes have been
      constructed there. Kolob Highlands was recorded as a dry subdivision with
      private and minimally improved roads.

7.    Peaceful Acres - is a 93 lot development located adjacent to the north of the
      Terrace Drive subdivision. It filled much of the "gap" between Terrace Drive
      and Kolob Wood subdivisions. This subdivision was recorded on April 20,
      1971. Since its original development, some of the lots in this subdivision have
      been provided with some water connections from water in adjacent subdivisions
      or other housing projects. There are 19 dwellings in the subdivision.

8.    Kolob Pines - is a subdivision located a significant distance to the east of the
      cluster of subdivisions located adjacent to the Kolob Reservoir Road. The
      subdivision contains 47 lots and currently has about 17 dwellings in the
      subdivision. It was recorded in two phases on 10-21-71 and 10-3-72. The
      roadways are also private.

9.    Woodland Retreat - is a subdivision located in the center part of the Kolob
      area just a short distance east of the Kolob Reservoir Road. The development
      includes 48 lots and there are currently about 28 dwellings constructed in the
      subdivision. Woodland Retreat was recorded on September 25, 1962. There was
      no county subdivision ordinance in 1962.

10.   Owen Wright subdivision - is located north of the "center" of the Kolob area
      development, immediately adjacent to the Kolob Reservoir Road. The Kolob
      Reservoir Road is the main roadway coming from the Town of Virgin, north
      through Zion National Park to the Kolob Reservoir. It is paved and dedicated
      through the Kolob area between the Park Boundary the Reservoir.

      Owen Wright developed this subdivision and recorded the county approved plat
      on April 13, 1972. The subdivision contains 27 lots and 9 residential dwellings
      have currently been constructed there. Other conditions in the subdivision are
      much the same as in all those subdivisions previously identified herein.


11.   Graceful Acres - is another subdivision located adjacent to the Kolob Pines
      subdivision and contains 96 lots. It was recorded June 30, 1972. The subdivision
      is much like the other early subdivisions in the area. The roads are sometimes



                                            8
      difficult to traverse because of their location and the manner in which they were
      constructed. There are currently only two dwellings in the subdivision.

12.   Terrace Drive - is a 39 lot subdivision located east of Peaceful Acres and has
      access from the Kolob Reservoir Road. There are currently 14 dwelling units in
      the subdivision. This subdivision is one that has provided some water
      connections to the subdivisions located to the west of this project. Terrace Drive
      is one of the few subdivisions that have water available to the lots in the
      subdivision. Terrace Drive was recorded July 27, 1987, and is therefore one of
      the more recent subdivisions in the Kolob area.

13.   Zion Panorama - is a subdivision located in the far eastern part of the Kolob area
      not too far from the Kane County line. This subdivision was recorded in several
      phases beginning with phase 1 on September 16, 1974. The subdivision contains
      91 lots. There are about 34 dwelling units currently constructed in Zion
      Panorama. This development is further away from the "center" of the valley than
      any other of the Kolob subdivisions.

14.   Bastion Woodlands - is a five acre, one lot subdivision recorded on October 32,
      1988. It is located in the area of Kolob Pines, and Graceful Acres. It contains one
      dwelling unit which was the purpose for which the development was created.

15.   Woody Albion - is a three acre, one lot subdivision located adjacent to the
      Bastion Woodlands one lot subdivision. It contains one residential dwelling
      which was the purpose for which the one lot subdivision was created.

16.   Whispering Pines - contains 84 lots and is located along the Kolob Reservoir
      Road on the west side of the main road. Whispering Pines is a new subdivision
      that was recorded on August 21, 2009. The subdivision currently contains one
      dwelling. This subdivision continues the county policy of not accepting
      subdivision roads in the county for county maintenance. It is also the only
      subdivision that contains paved roads. Paved roads are now required in all
      subdivisions in Washington County no matter what part of the county they are
      located in.

17.   Shady Acres - is an area located between Kolob Woods and Peaceful acres. It is a
      group of lots that were sold off by metes and bounds without ever being included
      as part of a subdivision plat. There are 26 lots in this area and there have been
      approximately 11 dwellings built in this area.

18    Spendlove metes and bounds - includes a group of about 18 lots that were
      approved by metes and bounds without recording a subdivision plat. There
      appears to be 8 welling units built in this area. This development is located
      south of Kolob Highlands and east of the Kolob Reservoir. There are no other
      subdivisions located in the general area of this group of properties.




                                           9
19.    Blue Springs Recreation Area - is a planned development that was created in the
       early 1960's before the county had either a subdivision ordinance or a planned
       development zone in the zoning ordinance. The site contains a reservoir covering
       35 acres of land. There are 30 building lots in the project of 1 acre each. An
       additional 12 to 14 building sites have been identified since the original plan was
       prepared. These additional sites that have been sold are no longer part of the
       recreation area. The Blue Springs Recreation Area is available for use by owners
       and guests of owners.

20.    Kolob Mountain Ranch - was a residential lodge development that commenced
       with the first phase being developed in 1988. Phase I contained 12 rooms with
       two other phased being added later on. The intent of the project was to have
       residential facilities available for rent, or ownership on a time share basis. These
       facilities were clustered together in close proximity on a 600 acre parcel of land.
       The project also included a water system with a large storage facility. Some water
       was also provided to some adjacent lots that were originally approved as dry
       subdivision lots.

       The intent of the development was to allow residents and guests to spend time in a
       clustered setting with common indoor areas, and to have outdoor access to most
       of the 600 acre site for outdoor recreation including hiking, horseback riding, etc.,
       without ever leaving the 600 acre commonly owned property.

       At one point, an effort was made to keep the resort open through the winter
       months. This proved to be difficult to do because of the difficulty of access, the
       lack of snow removal on roadways, and the isolation of the lodge during winter
       months. During the summer season, it is a desirable location.

21.    Scattered parcels - There are other scattered dwelling units on parcels of privately
       owned land that exist in various areas of Kolob. Because of the size of most of
       the many privately owned parcels of land, permits can be obtained for dwellings
       on this land without the need for recording a specific subdivision plat.

There are a total of about 230 dwellings in subdivisions and metes and bounds projects,
along with about 30 to 40 scattered parcels throughout the area. The total number of
dwellings in the Kolob area is about 260 to 270 dwellings. The summer population in the
area could be as high as about 800 persons on any given day, particularly during holiday
week-ends.

Commercial Development:

There is a very minimal amount of commercial development on Kolob. Years ago, a
restaurant was constructed just off of the Reservoir Road. It was not successful and
closed down after a short run. Following this facility, a store occupied the building for a
time, and then it also went out of business.




                                            10
Some additional land along the reservoir road has been zoned for commercial
development when a request was made to establish a commercial business in a dwelling
that is located along the road. None of these efforts was successful.

Most recently, the original restaurant business has again been remodeled and opened for a
commercial store business. The General Plan supports commercial development in the
Kolob area, and the areas presently zone for commercial use are in the proper location to
fill that need as it expands. The problem at this time with commercial development in the
Kolob area is the fact that commercial development is dependent upon a perceived need
of the public for commercial business. That need may be difficult to identify in an area
that is limited to just a few months each year in which to bring a return on the investment.

Recreation:

One reason for the development in Kolob is for the purpose of providing summer season
recreation opportunities for those having property and homes there. The location, low
density pattern of development, fresh air, cool summer temperatures, and a beautiful
night sky are all reasons for the success of residential development projects in this area.
Those purposes will continue to grow and develop in coming years, and certainly there is
sufficient space for more development to take place.

The major recreation facility in the area is the Kolob Reservoir and the land surrounding
the reservoir. Originally, the reservoir was created for water storage for agricultural
purposes in the lower valleys of Washington County. Recreational use of the site was not
part of the original proposal. Iron County (Cedar City) also maintained an interest in the
reservoir and later determined that it was not economically feasible to transport the water
from the reservoir into Iron County.

Following the pull-out from Iron County, the Hurricane Irrigation Company, originally
developers of the reservoir, turned the site over to the Washington County Water
Conservancy District for management and maintenance purposes.

Early on, the Conservancy District organized a committed to study the future use of the
reservoir and to oversee the preparation of a long range plan for future development.
This study was carried out during the summer of 1996 and completed in November of
that year. The main need identified in the report was to provide sanitary facilities for use
by those using the reservoir for recreation purposes.

Kolob Reservoir had become a popular fishing site with help from the State in stocking
the reservoir with fish. During some periods of time it has been a "catch and release"
reservoir as opposed to keeping the fish that were caught. An additional facility
constructed early on by the District was a boat ramp to allow fishing craft to be launched
into the reservoir in one place as opposed to random launching around the reservoir.
These early needs have been completed.




                                             11
The original plan for the reservoir called for the development of a number of camp sites
at various points around the reservoir. Ninety two sites were identified, staked out on the
ground, and surveyed into a development plan. There were an additional fifteen sites
identified as day-use only sites. There were also two sites at each end of the reservoir
that were identified as group use areas for use by larger day-use groups for various
activities.

The General Plan recommends that this plan be reviewed by the Water Conservancy
District, and that it be updated, and included in the annual Conservancy District budget
for future implementation. This recreation area is an important summer recreation area
for the entire Kolob area.

Another summer recreation facility in the Kolob area is a Boy Scout camp developed and
maintained by the Greater Las Vegas, Nevada, Council of the Boy Scouts of America. It
receives extensive use by scouts and scout leaders from the Las Vegas Valley, and
surrounding Nevada areas. .

A Girl Scout camp is also located in the Kolob area. It provides summer camping
opportunities for young girls from the Las Vegas, Nevada area. These scout camps are
not open for public use, but they do provide for summer activities for many youth from
the Southern Nevada area which are not available in the southern Nevada desert.

Public Services:

There are a number of public services that are provided in the Kolob area. These are
identified and discussed briefly as follows:

1.     Electricity - At this time there is no electric service available in any of the
       subdivisions in the Kolob area. Electrical service has been proposed to be
       extended from the Kanarraville area to Kolob, but has not been realized up to this
       time. The General Plan recommends that efforts continue to bring electrical
       power to Kolob from whatever direction appears to be the most economical.

2.     Natural Gas - There is no natural gas service to the Kolob area. It is less likely
       than electrical service to be extended here either from Iron County, or from the
       lower valleys of Washington County. With only seasonal use of the homes in the
       area, it is not currently economically feasible for natural gas to come here.

3.     Water - Historically water has been limited in most of the Kolob subdivisions. A
       few subdivisions have been able to develop water for their projects. Most of the
       early subdivisions were approved as "dry" subdivisions. Some of these areas
       have since been able to develop water.

       One of the main reasons for a slowdown in development in the last 20 years has
       been the requirement by the county that there will be no more dry subdivisions
       approved anywhere in Washington County which included Kolob.



                                            12
     The Water Conservancy District has just completed the construction of a water
     line to bring water from Crystal Creek to the Kolob Reservoir. The construction
     of this line has also made it possible to provide culinary water to some locations
     in the Kolob area. The Water Conservancy District did provide the culinary water
     for the Whispering Pine Subdivision recorded in 2009, as well as some other
     projects located along the water line. Having culinary water available for
     development will go a long way to encourage additional residential development
     here which could not have happened without a reliable source of culinary water.

4.   Sewage Disposal - The Kolob area is currently served by individual septic tanks.
     Washington County has recently approved an agreement with the Water
     Conservancy District to provide for approving waste disposal systems in the
     western part of the county and in the Kolob area. The District will make sure that
     no development is approved that would not protect the water in the Kolob
     reservoir.

     The State Department of Environmental Quality has, in recent years, approved
     alternate methods of waste disposal that could be approved by the District for use
     in developments in Kolob subdivisions. The General Plan feels that with the
     Water District having oversight for disposal in the Kolob area that the area will be
     well served in the future.

5.   Solid Waste - Solid waste collection is provided by the county solid waste district.
     The supervising board is made up of one representative from the county and one
     member from each incorporated city in the county. This organization contracts
     with a provider to take care of solid waste collection in the county.

     Currently, there is a collection station located in the Virgin area on the Kolob road
     to allow residents of Kolob to deposit their waste materials as they leave the
     county road on their way from Kolob to their homes elsewhere.

     As long as there is no provision for year round habitation at Kolob, this system
     seems to work as well as any that has been devised. It would be very difficult for
     the large collection trucks to make the trip to Kolob, not counting how they would
     be able so service the scattered subdivisions and other homes, not to count the
     difficulty in traversing some of the private roads in order to collect waste
     materials. The General Plan supports this method of collection until such time as
     there are full-time residents, the private roads are improved and dedicated, and the
     mountain area is accessible throughout the entire year.

6.   Building Inspection - is provided by the Washington County Building
     Department. Inspectors travel to Kolob as necessary to take care of new
     construction or remodeling that takes place during the summer season. The
     county also allows for the use of travel trailers during a limited period of time in
     the summer. The Building Department also oversees the use of travel trailers.




                                          13
7.   Communications - Telephone service is available in the Kolob area to
     subdivisions where lines have been installed. The Beehive Telephone Company
     provides telephone service to the Kolob area. Line can be installed in
     subdivisions where service is desired. There is some cell phone service available
     in the Kolob area, but this service varies from place to place. Some subdivisions
     or parts of subdivisions, find cell service and many others nearby do not. If a cell
     tower was provided in the area, then it would depend upon which service was
     represented on the tower as to whether or not a person would have service. The
     General Plan would expect that at some point of time, the county will receive a
     request to construct a cell tower in the area which could provide service for cell
     phones. The county required that at least three networks be allowed to locate on a
     given cell tower.

8.   Flood Control - There are many washes, canyons, and tributaries to the Virgin
     River that have their origin in the Kolob area. There is no specific flood control
     plans or districts that have been created for flood control. One of the largest
     problems in the Kolob areas is to be hiking in one of these slot or side canyons
     when a storm takes place which could provide for dangerous flooding for people
     in those areas,

9.   Roads - There is only one major road to and from Kolob. The major road leaves
     State Highway 9 in the center of the Town of Virgin and goes from there
     northward through a portion of Zion National Park and is dedicated for a part of
     the northern end of the road as it approaches the Kolob Reservoir.

     This road is closed at the Park boundary during the winter months because of the
     difficulty in keeping it open with the large amount of snow that falls there. The
     county should work closely with Zion National Park in making improvements to
     the road through the National Park to the point of providing assistance if
     necessary to make the roadway a safe route to travel to and from Kolob. This
     roadway is paved from Virgin Town to the Kolob Reservoir.

     During the summer months there is a county road by right of use that goes north
     and east from the reservoir across the summit of the mountain and connects with
     State Highway 14 in Cedar Canyon. This road is not open in the winter. Another
     road leaves this roadway and travels down Kanarraville Canyon to the town of
     Kanarraville, also located in Iron County. These roads are not paved and are
     made for seasonal use only. Even during the summer months, summer storms
     could provide problems in traveling these roads.

     There is a private easement located between the two Deep Creek wilderness areas
     that would provide access to the east side of Zion National Park, and would
     connect to a roadway on the east side of the Park. A county road between the two
     wilderness areas would be a difficult road to construct.




                                          14
       All of the roads in the subdivisions are private roads. In order for the county to
       consider taking them over for maintenance, they would have to be brought to
       current county standards and dedicated to the county. While the requirements for
       improvement have been improved substantially in recent years, the newer roads
       are still considered to be private roads.

       Winters in Kolob are not that much different than they are in areas such as Duck
       Creek along State Highway 14 going over Cedar Mountain. In which case, the
       highway is a well traveled road and connects Iron County to Kane and Garfield
       Counties. It is a State Highway and is maintained by the Utah Department of
       Transportation.

       Similar development in the Kolob area could some time necessitate keeping year
       around access similar to the Duck Creek area. The General Plan projects that this
       will happen at some time in the future. However, it will not be soon.

10.    Fire Protection - The Kolob area receives fire protection through the Hurricane
       Valley Fire District. There some discussion about dissolving this District. Before
       it was created, Hurricane City provided fire protection to Kolob. If the District is
       eliminated, it can be assumed that Hurricane City will once again provide fire
       protection. Right now it is not feasible to create a Kolob Fire District. As with
       roads, that could sometime take place, but not anytime soon.

11.    Public Safety - Police protection in the valley is provided by the Washington
       County Sheriff's Office. Kolob will be a part of the county for a long time to
       come. Therefore, police protection will be provided by the county.

12.    Cemetery - There a recognized cemetery located in the Kolob area. It is near the
       main county road leading to the reservoir. It is available for use by anyone in the
       area desiring burial at Kolob. It is privately owned and maintained, but it is
       available for use by the public.

13.    Incorporation - is one consideration for each of the unincorporated communities
       in the county. The State Law indicates that prior to any consideration there must
       be a minimum of 100 registered voters living in the area. At this point of time

       There are no registered voters living in the Kolob area who live there as their
       permanent resident and vote in a precinct there for each election. Obviously,
       Kolob, while unincorporated, does not fall into that category at the present time.
       It may happen some time, but not anytime soon.

Summary:

Kolob is a "high mountain" area in the north-east corner of Washington County.
Elevations range above 8,000 feet. The area has several hundred summer homes located
in subdivision and scattered throughout the area. Many of the early subdivisions were



                                            15
recorded without any source of culinary water. Some of these subdivisions have been
able to develop water since their recordation.

One of the features of Kolob was the construction of the Kolob Reservoir which provides
some camping and fishing opportunities in the Kolob area. There are still further
improvements that could be made to improve this resource. The only dedicated road is
the main road leading to the reservoir. There are roads by right-of-use that continue from
the reservoir on into Iron County and connect with State Highway 14 east of Cedar City.

The main road to and from the Kolob area begins in the Town of Virgin and passes
through a large part of Zion National Park. This is the only paved road, and nearly all of
the other roads in Kolob are private. Most of them are not well maintained. Only the
most recent subdivision in the area has been developed with paved roads.

The use of the area is for seasonal use only because of the main road being closed at the
Park boundary, and the heavy amounts of snow that occur here in winter months. The
area may some time be used for year-around living, but that use would appear to be along
way off before it happens. In the meantime, Kolob will continue as a beautiful and
desirable are for summer recreation use by the land owners there.




                                            16
