          The General Plan
                For
   The Community of Dammeron Valley
            2010 - 2011

A part of the Washington County General Plan
                  2010



             Prepared by
       The Washington County
        Planning Department
                THE DAMMERON VALLEY COMMUNITY GENERAL PLAN
                               2010-2011

Introduction:

Dammeron Valley is a part of the unincorporated area of Washington County. Residents and
others should take time to review Section I of the county General Plan which discusses planning
in general, the basis for planning, and the purpose of planning. Many of the things mentioned in
the beginning of Section VII are also relevant to residents of this part of the county. The General
Plan provides guidelines for the future of this particular part of the county in addition to those
things that are applied county wide in the other sections of the General Plan.

Dammeron Valley is among the more recent developments in the County and was never part of
an area settled by the original pioneer settlers. The first phase of the Dammeron Valley
community called the Dammeron Valley Ranches was recorded on May 17, 1976 and was the
first phase of many in the valley which included other names such Damameron Valley
Homesteads, Dammeron Valley Meadows, and some phases by other similar names.

On January 23, 1990, a companion development was undertaken named Pinion Hills. Several
phases of Pinion Hills have been recorded since that time. Pinion Hills is located on the hillside
along the south side of the valley and goes nearly to the boundary of the Red Cliffs Wilderness
area on the south.

Altogether in both developments there are some 382 lots that have been platted and recorded
since the beginning in 1976. Of these lots 255 have been recorded in the various Dammeron
Valley subdivision plats, and 127 in the Pinion Hills Subdivisions. All of this development has
taken place over the last 34 years.

Prior to the development of either of the current subdivision developments, the area was more
historically used for livestock grazing and a small amount of farming.

Geography, Geology and Topography:

Dammeron Valley is located on both sides of State Highway 18, just a few miles south of the
unincorporated community of Veyo, and a few miles north of another unincorporated community
called Diamond Valley. All three of these communities lie along Highway 18 connecting St.
George City on the south and the City of Enterprise on the North.

The Geology of the land in Dammeron Valley is very similar to the soil types found in Diamond
Valley. These soil formations make up about 8 % of the soil types in Washington County as
determined by a survey by the U.S. soil Conservation Service between the years of 1967 and
1971.

Quoting from this soils study the soils in Dammeron Valley are generally identified as belonging
to a group of soils called Napalene - Redbank - Schmutz - Palma association. Most of the soils
in this classification are formed in alluvium from sedimentary and igneous rocks. These


                                            Page 3 of 21
formations have many elements in common. They are generally deep, well-drained brown and
reddish-brown silt loams. Permeability is moderately rapid above about 40 inches and moderate
below 40 inches. Runoff is considered to be slow and erosion hazard slight. Soils of this type
are normally found in slopes of 1 to 5 %. The soils will support irrigated and non-irrigated
crops.

The community of Dammeron Valley is generally identified as including about1,850.51 acres
and 3.03 square miles of land. Dammeron Valley essentially abuts Diamond Valley on the south
and Veyo on the north. The land ownership of the valley is as follows:

                                         Table I
                            Land Ownership in Dammeron Valley

               Bureau of Land Management                287.33 ac.   0.45 sq. mi.
               BLM Wilderness area                     3.94 ac.      0.01sq. mi.
               State of Utah                            501.49 ac.   0.78 sq. mi.
               Private Land                          1,013.76 ac.    1.78 sq. mi.
               Quasi Public Land                         3.99 ac.    0.01 sq. mi.

                                     Total:          1,810.51 ac.    3.03 sq. mi.

The topography of the valley is generally level, in the Dammeron Valley part of the community.
The Pinion Hills development lies on the hillside along the south side of the valley.

Land Use:

Most of the public land under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management land is vacant.
A small part of the BLM land includes the northern end of the Red Cliffs Wilderness area,
recently designated by act of Congress in 2009.

There is one parcel of land in the valley designated as commercial land. It is located nearly in
the center of the valley, on the east side of Highway 18. Primarily it has been used as a
restaurant facility and has gone through several ownerships over the years. Other than this
facility, the only other commercial land in the valley is in the form of Home Occupations that
may have been approved by the county and for which the permits are renewed each year by the
county.

At the southern end of the valley is located the northern boundary of the Red Cliffs Wilderness
area that was created by Congress in 2009. This boundary is not likely to change. To the west of
Dammeron Valley is land owned by the power company which could be acquired for
development in the future. To the north is land owned by the State Institutional Trust Lands
which could also be made available for development in years to come. To the east is land under
the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management. This land is not likely to change its open
space use any time soon.




                                              Page 4 of 21
                                             Table II
                                        Existing Land Use

                       Residential Development                        836.90 ac.     83.88 %
                       Agriculture                                      -
                       Vacant Undeveloped Land / Grazing              155.06 ac.     15.54 %
                       Commercial                                       1.75 ac.      0.01 %
                       Industrial                                        -
                       Public / Quasi Public                             3.99 ac.      0.03 %

                                                       Total:         997.70 ac.     99.46 %

The above figures are not survey accurate, but do paint a relative picture as to the relationship
between the various types of land use.

Open Space:

There is still significant open space in the area surrounding Dammeron Valley. On the other
hand, there is also significant land that could be made available for development if all of the
factors necessary for development are in place. Some of these things will be discussed elsewhere
in this plan.

Agricultural Land:

Agricultural land is currently limited in Dammeron Valley. Some lots, those of 5 or more acres,
are large enough to support a degree of agricultural use on the individual lot. The one acre lots
also provide agricultural use in terms of some livestock, particularly horse, stabling and riding.
The lots in the Pinion Hills development do not support agricultural uses. It was provided for in
the initial development to provide a green belt on both sides of Highway 18 through the valley.
The lots backing up against the highway right-of-way were established to prohibit building in the
rear portion of the lots. This land could be used for agricultural development including crop
production, livestock raising, and other similar green belt activities. There is likely some
agricultural land in Dammeron Valley, but this land is difficult to calculate as a significant part
of the valley area.

Residential Development:

There are basically three types of residential lot development in the Dammeron Valley
community. These lots include the Dammeron Valley Meadows and Ranches which consist of
lots of five acres in size. Most of the valley land is divided into lots of one acre in size which
was the minimum size that was approved for septic tank disposal, and which also provided for a
limited amount of agricultural use. The third type of lot was a smaller lot of 40,000 sq. ft. or less
which provided for residential development, but no agricultural uses. These lots are mostly
confined to the more recent development known as Pinion Hills.




                                             Page 5 of 21
                                           Table III
                         Type of Residential Lots in Dammeron Valley

                       Type of Lot                     Total Vacant % Vacant
                       5 acre Lots                       75     11   14.6 %
                       Valley Lots                      180    55    30.5 %
                       Pinion Hills Lots                127    70    55.1 %

                                        Total:           382    136      35.6 %

There are a total of 382 lots in Dammeron Valley with 136 of these lots being developed. In the
5 acre lot area, there are still 11 vacant lots which are not far from build-out. The 1 acre lots in
the valley area total 180, with 55 of them being vacant, and of those 55 lots, they are
significantly more than 11 lots, The Pinion Hills development is of a different nature. It is the
most recent development in the valley with over 50 % of the lots being vacant. There are more
vacant lots in Pinion Hills than in the other two areas combined.

There is one significant difference in the Pinion Hills area than the other two areas. That is, that
Pinion Hills is served by a single waste disposal system. The General Plan discusses this
situation in more detail under the section dealing with public services.

The actual number of building permits issued for dwelling units over the past ten years is shown
in Table IV as follows:

                                           Table IV.
                             Residential Permits Issued 2001 - 2010

                               Year     Dammeron Valley          Pinion Hills

                               2001               12                     3
                               2002               11                    11
                               2003                4                     7
                               2004                8                     2
                               2005                9                     6
                               2006                9                     4
                               2007                3                     4
                               2008                1                     0
                               2009                0                     2
                               2010                2                     1

                               Total:             59                    40

Over the past ten years, there has been an average of 10 permits issued each year. During the
years 2008-2010 there were very few permits issued in Dammeron Valley which reflects the
reduction in residential building county-wide as well as state and nation-wide. If the last three
years are deleted from the totals, the average per year becomes 13 permits per year, which may


                                                 Page 6 of 21
be a more accurate figure during more “normal” times.

With 382 lots in Dammeron Valley and 35 % of them (136) being vacant and an average of 13
building permits per year being issued, Dammeron Valley could support further development of
permits per year for another 10 years before reaching complete build out. Under normal
conditions, a residential area never reaches a 100% complete build out. There will always be a
few vacant lots for whatever reason, which never get homes built on them.

Current Population and Population Density:

Dammeron Valley is part of the unincorporated area of the county. Specific population figures
for Dammeron Valley are not available. The average family size in the county is in the range of
2.8 to 3.2 residents per dwelling unit. Using these figures, it can be estimated that the current
population of Dammeron Valley would be in the range of 1,070 to 1,220 residents. Using an
average of 3.0 residents per dwelling, the figure would be about 1,150 residents at the present
time.

From a density standpoint, Dammeron Valley is still very low. Using the projected population
within an area of 1,810.51 acres, the density becomes about 1.57 acres per resident which is a
low density.

Future Growth and Development:

Projecting population over the next ten years is best done by using the average number of
permits for the past ten years combined with possible future growth. Permits could be expected
to increase incrementally over a period of years. The number of permits issued could likely be
reduced to an 8 year average because of the lack of permits the past two years. The desire for
single family homes will likely continue even though the Vision Dixie Plan calls for a mixed use
type of development with higher density interspersed with single family and commercial
development. How quickly the economy rebounds will determine how quickly additional
development will take place.

                                          Table V.
                               Projected Population Growth
                              Year Number of New Dwellings
                                   7 yr. Ave.      10 yr. Ave.
                         2011              13             10
                         2012              13             10
                         2013              13             10
                         2014              13             10
                         2015              13             10
                         2016              13             10
                         2017              13             10
                         2018              13             10
                         2019              13             10
                         2020              13             10


                                           Page 7 of 21
Using the 7 year average, 130 permits would be issued in the next 10 years and 100 permits
would be issued using the entire 10 year average. In terms of actual numbers of residents, using
the 7 year average the population could increase by about 400 new residents. Using the 10 year
average, the projected increase would be about 300 to 400 new residents.

The above calculations, in simple terms, represent the current and future populations of the
Dammeron Valley area. The General Plan supports those calculations and projections.
However, in the case of Dammeron Valley, things are not that simple.

Lying essentially to the west of the current Dammeron Valley are three blocks of land, each of
which have potential for development. One is owned by the Utah State and Institutional Trust
Lands. These lands were intended by Congress at the time of Utah Statehood, to provide land
for the future support of the State School System. The land was intended to be sold over time
with the income from the sale to be placed in a trust, the income of which would ensure to the
schools of the state.

Another block of land immediately adjacent to Dammeron Valley is property owned by Rocky
Mountain Power Company. It runs westward from Dammeron Valley to the edge of Gunlock
and contains both the upper and lower sand cove reservoirs.

Adjacent to the power company property is another block of land under the jurisdiction of the
Bureau of Land Management. The 1990 BLM Resource Management Plan identified this block
of BLM land for future disposal purposes. The 2009 Land Bill, approved by Congress and the
President, also identified this parcel of land as being one that would be disposed of by the BLM.

There are no dates identified by which any of these blocks of land should be disposed of or
traded for development. Under the current economic situation, it is not likely than any of them
will change in the foreseeable future. In combination these blocks of land total some 4,500 to
5,000 acres of land. Such a development would reach from State Highway 18 westward to the
community of Gunlock.

Therefore the General Plan must bring this possibility to the attention of the residents of the
community of Dammeron Valley. Assuming that utility services, primarily water, could be
developed, there is really nothing that would prohibit development if it is requested at some
future time.

Because Dammeron Valley is unincorporated, and is not adjacent to any incorporated city or
town, the decision relative to the future essentially lies in the hands of the residents of
Dammeron Valley as to whether it should incorporate, or should continue to be an
unincorporated part of Washington County. The General Plan has always taken the position that
self determination is preferable to other forms of government, and that the government closest to
the people is the best possible form of government. Neither the General Plan nor the county has
authority to require incorporation. The decision as to whether or not to incorporate would need
to be made by the residents of Dammeron Valley. The only purpose of the General Plan is to
make the residents of the valley aware of the possible potentials that could take place at a future


                                             Page 8 of 21
time so that the residents can weigh these considerations into any decision as to the future of
Dammeron Valley.

Vision Dixie Principle Summary:

Along with recommendations for residential growth and future development in Dammeron
Valley, along with other types of development such as commercial growth, the Vision Dixie
Project, which was sponsored by Washington County a few years ago, and which was adopted
by the county upon its completion, makes recommendations for many other phases of
community development. A summary of the Vision Dixie Principles and their relationship to
Dammeron Valley is shown as follows:

1.     Plan regionally, implement locally - The General Plan for Dammeron Valley is a local
       plan for the residents of Dammeron Valley, It is however, intended to be adopted as a
       part of the Washington County General Plan.

2.     Maintain air and water quality, and conserve water - Air and water quality is very
       important to residents of Dammeron Valley. Many people live in communities such as
       Dammeron Valley because of the clean air that exists. Conservation is also evident here
       because of the limited outdoor watering of lawn areas. There are trees in Dammeron
       Valley, however much of the landscaping is of a natural variety that does not require
       additional water.

3.     Guard our signature landscapes - See the section of the plan dealing with open space
       development. There is surrounding land surrounding Dammeron Valley, much of which
       will not be used for development purposes.

4.     Provide rich connected natural recreation areas and open spaces - There is no shortage of
       natural open space recreation areas surrounding Dammeron Valley. The Pine Valley
       Mountain is not far away on the east. The Red Cliffs Wilderness area is almost adjacent
       on the south.

5.     Build a balanced transportation system - The County has developed a county-wide
       transportation plan. See Section III of the General Plan for further information on the
       county transportation plan. As far as such things as a commuter bus system connecting
       Dammeron Valley with the St. George City valley, that service is still many years in the
       future, but could become a reality at a future time. It is possible that a bus system could
       operate between St. George City and Enterprise City at some future time with stops along
       the way in each of the communities along State Highway 18.

6.     Get centered by focusing on growth in walkable mixed use centers. In a community such
       as Dammeron Valley that was essentially developed prior to the Vision Dixie Plan being
       developed, it is difficult to retrofit the community into a mixed use center now that it has
       been almost fully completed. On the other hand, Dammeron Valley is compact enough
       that it could be considered to be generally walkable as it is currently developed. It is not
       a mixed use community in the true sense of mixed use, although the single family homes


                                            Page 9 of 21
       do provide a mixture of lot sizes and uses within the community. It would be difficult at
       this time to identify areas for true mixed uses to be developed. Unless a sewage disposal
       system was installed for the entire community, it would be difficult to develop lots of a
       mixed use nature using septic tanks as a means of waste disposal.

7.     Direct growth inward - Dammeron Valley has been developed as a relative compact
       subdivision insofar as various sized of single family lots and homes are concerned. The
       valley, as well as all of the other unincorporated areas has not been able to support a
       higher or mixed use density using septic tanks. Sewer systems have not been available in
       the county with the exception of the Pinion Hills project which has been served by a large
       septic tank and by an on-site treatment facility at some time in the near future.

8.     Provide a broad range of housing types - This element has been discussed previously. As
       far as the unincorporated communities of the county are concerned, Dammeron Valley
       provides a greater variety of housing types than any other of the unincorporated
       communities. The Vision Dixie Plan suggests a broader variety of mixed uses and
       multiple family dwelling units which are not possible in this valley without a sewage
       disposal system.

9.     Reserve areas for industry - This is discussed in the following section dealing with
       industrial development.

10.    Public land conversion - No conversion of public land is needed for the build out of the
       community. However, as discussed in this Plan, there are potentials for future
       development in Dammeron Valley which would include much additional land being
       added to the valley, some of which has been identified for disposal by the BLM for future
       development. In an area of new development, the principles of the Vision Dixie Plan
       could be incorporated into community planning from the very beginning.

Commercial Development:

Commercial development is mostly non-existent in Dammeron Valley except for one
commercial business located adjacent to State High 18. There are also some home occupations
in the valley which can be expected to expand in future years. In some communities both
incorporated cities and unincorporated communities. Home occupations make up a significant
element in those areas. The General Plan would suggest that it may be possible for other
commercial business to locate in the Dammeron Valley area to provide additional commercial
facilities beyond the current business. The General Plan suggests that it would not be prudent for
Dammeron Valley to try to bring in businesses along the State Highway to attract consumers to
stop in the valley to shop for commercial services. It would be within the range of possibility for
commercial business to develop in the Dammeron Valley area to support the needs of the
residents of the community.

It is difficult to attract industrial or manufacturing business to an area without ready access to an
interstate freeway. State Highway 18 is a major highway, and as such can support a significant
amount of traffic. Further, it should be widened to at least four lanes all the way between


                                             Page 10 of 21
St.George City and the community of Central as quickly as possible. However, with all of the
potential for development of additional land in the Dammeron Valley area, only that land
adjacent to the State Highway would have any significant industrial potential. If it did develop
with an industrial base, it is still a significant distance to the Interstate 15 Freeway. For these
reasons, the General Plan does not project any significant industrial development in the
Dammeron Valley area during the time of this Plan.

Public Services:

A section of the General Plan relative to public services in the county is contained at the
beginning of this section of the plan, Section VII. Many comments are re-stated here as they
specifically apply to the community of Dammeron Valley.

Electricity:

Electric service in Dammeron Valley is provided by the Rocky Mountain Power Company. A
few years ago a new sub-station was constructed at the south end of the valley, about mid-way
between Diamond Valley and Dammeron Valley. With the completion of this sub-station, the
power company is better able to serve this area of the county. The same power company is
planning an expansion of their service capacity between the major power hub at Sigurd, Utah,
and the sub-station located at Central / Dixie Deer Estates. This expansion with another service
line is expected too be complete in about 3 to 4 years. This will provide good service to the
Dammeron Valley area for many years into the future.

During the county input meeting, comments were made relative to contact with the power
company relative to identifying ORV and other trails within the power company property. The
General Plan would support continued dialogue with the residents of Dammeron Valley relative
to providing access to and through the power company property.

Natural Gas:

A number of years ago, the Questar Gas Company installed a natural gas line from a point near
the town of Central, running parallel State Highway 18 southward toward the City of St.
George. The installation of this line made natural gas service available to communities along the
way, including Veyo, Dammeron Valley, Diamond Valley and Winchester Hills. This line
connects with the other major supply line serving the St. George valley from the east, giving
service to most of the county from either direction. This supply of natural gas should be
sufficient to serve all of the communities currently connected to the system for both current
demand and for future growth.

Water:

Water in Dammeron Valley is provided by the Dammeron Valley Water Company. This is a
privately owned company under the ownership of the developer of Dammeron Valley. It appears
that this system is sufficient to serve the community of Dammeron Valley through the period of
the General Plan. It would not be sufficient to provide culinary water to the other blocks of land


                                            Page 11 of 21
adjacent to Dammeron Valley that could, at some time in the future, be proposed for
development. It is possible that the Washington County Water Conservancy District would be
able to provide supplementary water to the valley at some future time, should it be necessary to
obtain supplementary water for the existing community, or to supply water for additional land in
the Dammeron Valley area.

Sewage Disposal:

Presently, liquid waste is disposed of through two separate methods. All of the Dammeron
Valley area is served by individual septic tanks. This system has seemed to serve the valley well
up to this point. In order to maintain the septic system as a healthy means of disposal, the valley
should consider a program of septic tank maintenance in which home owners pay a maintenance
fee just as a homeowner on a sewage system would pay. This would provide for an annual
inspection of each system in the community, with those needing pumping or other
improvements, these improvements would be made at no further cost to the home owner. In so
doing, septic tanks could be a satisfactory method of disposal for years to come.

The Pinion Hills portion of Dammeron Valley is presently connected by outfall lines leading to a
large septic tank and drain field system. This system has worked generally well since its
inception. At some agreed upon time, the developer is bonded to provide an on-site disposal
system to take care of the entire Pinion Hills system. This plan will work well, and will provide
service to the Pinion Hills area for the period of the General Plan.

An alternative to an on-site system would be to extend an outfall line from Dammeron Valley to
the existing sewer system currently extended to the Ledges development in St. George City.
This outfall line extension may be less expensive than the installation of a package plant. It
would particularly make sense if the community of Diamond Valley also precipitated in the
outfall line extension.

Washington County recently made an agreement with the Washington County Water
Conservancy District to oversee waste services to all of the western part of the county. Any new
development in western Washington County will be required to meet the requirements that may
be established by the Water Conservancy District.

Roads:

Road maintenance of the roads in Dammeron Valley now comes from the Washington County
Road Department. Most of the roads in the valley have been dedicated to the county through the
subdivision process. Most of the roads in the valley portion of the community are, or have been,
graveled while the roads in Pinion Hills have been paved via changes in county ordinance
requiring paved roads in subdivisions as opposed to gravel roads which were required many
years ago.

In unincorporated county areas, the roads are classified by the State as “Class B” roads.
Depending upon the degree of improvement, the county receives funds from the State for
maintenance purposes. This amount is subject to change from one year to another with the funds


                                           Page 12 of 21
for maintenance coming from the Gasoline Tax applied to all gasoline purchased throughout the
country. Dirt roads receive the least amount of funding; paved roads receive the most
maintenance money.

In Washington County, roads have historically been maintained with the money received from
the State gas tax fund. Property Tax funds have not been used for road maintenance. It has long
been the county policy to maintain roads in essentially the condition in which they were created.
If the property owners in Dammeron Valley want to have their roads maintained at a higher
standard, the position of the county would be that when the owners of an area bring their roads
up to that higher level, the county will then maintain them at the new standard. This is
sometimes done through an improvement district that spreads the cost of improvement over a
period of usually not more than ten years, instead of a one-time payment up front from the
property owners.

Fire Protection:

Fire protection in Dammeron Valley is provided by the Dammeron Valley Fire Department.
This fire department works under the umbrella of the Dammeron Valley Landowners
Association. It is essentially a “stand alone” fire department and is not tied to either the
Northwest, or the Southwest District Fire Departments that serve areas both to the north and
south of Dammeron Valley. The fire chief participates in the county fires chief’s association,
and does participate in training programs available on a county wide basis.

There is a fire station located in Dammeron Valley, and the fire department is a volunteer fire
department. They do have significant equipment available for use by the firemen, and the
department would appear to be adequate for the community as it currently exists, including
Pinion Hills, assuming that there is no significant development outside of the currently platted
and recorded development. Should the valley experience extensive expansion, the issue of fire
protection could be revisited at that time.

Public Safety:

Police protection is provided by the Washington County Sheriff’s Office. This service will
continue as long as Dammeron Valley continues as an unincorporated part of Washington
County. This method of police protection would continue even if Dammeron Valley was
incorporated until such time as the town created their own law enforcement department. Some
communities have contracted with the county for an increased visibility of sheriff’s officers
through a contract with the county calling for more sheriffs’ visibility in their community
through a specific contract calling for more sheriffs’ protection in exchange for additional funds
being raised by the community.

Solid Waste:

A solid waste board, made up of one representative from each city or town in the county, along
with one member of the county, oversee the collection of solid waste in the county. This board
contracts with a private company to provide the collection of waste in the county. There is a


                                           Page 13 of 21
central land fill location which is owned by the county and managed by the solid waste company.
That site is expected to be sufficient for many years to come. This system of management and
oversight is also expected to continue, and appears to be adequate to serve the valley.

Building Inspection:

Building inspection of new construction in Dammeron Valley is provided by the county building
department. The cost of a permit in the county is approximately $2,000.00 for an “average”
home. The cost of a permit is established in order to pay for the cost of the service provided, and
is intended to be subsidized by residents of the county in general. The county has no impact fees
outside of the fee for the preservation of the Desert Tortoise, which fee is collected county wide.
Some incorporated communities in the county also contract with the county to provide building
inspection services.

Communication:

Most of Washington County is served by the CenturyLink communication company. In addition
to CenturyLink services there are a number of private cellular companies providing service
within the county. Except for the possibility of a cellular tower somewhere in the Dammeron
Valley area, it would appear that communication services are sufficient for the present time.
There are some communication services through cable television and computer companies and
from satellite communications.

Flood Control:

Flood control has not been a major problem in Dammeron Valley compared to some of the other
unincorporated communities in the county. During heavy storms there have been time when the
culverts under the state highway have not been sufficient to carry the runoff, but overall,
Dammeron Valley has gotten by comparatively well.

Annexation / Incorporation:

There have been comments, from time to time, from the Dammeron Valley area relative to
consideration to incorporate as a stand alone community in the county. This issue was discussed
by the General Plan in the previous section dealing with residential development.

The General Plan would simply suggest that of all of the unincorporated communities in the
county, Dammeron Valley may have more to gain through incorporation because of the great
potential for development adjacent to the community. If all of that land remains in the county,
there is no reason for the county to give special direction to the development of these areas other
than through current county ordinances. Dammeron Valley could establish specific development
criteria that would allow development to take place, but under the direction of the current
community. The county would support incorporation of Dammeron Valley.

 The General Plan currently being proposed, would constitute a significant part of a feasibility
study, currently required by State law prior to an annexation being considered, without another


                                           Page 14 of 21
extensive study being required for the same purpose. To incorporate or not to incorporate is a
local decision, and the county will continue to support each area of the county as an
unincorporated part of the county.




                                           Page 15 of 21
     WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY STATISTICAL SURVEY
                            FOR
              THE COMMUNITY OF DAMMERON VALLEY
                         2010-2011

1.   Residency status

     a.     How long have you lived as this location? 8 year average
     b.     Number in family     3 average
     c.     Home Owner 100 %
     d.     Land owner 100 %             3.25 acres average

2.   Please mark characteristics that you value the most or that help you choose to live or own
     property in this area.

     a.     Born or raised in the area                            22.2 %
     b.     Close to family, friends, or neighbors                22.2 %
     c.     Close to mountains                                    77.7 %
     d.     Like the open space                                   88.8 %
     e.     The opportunity to keep horses, animals, etc.         77.7 %
     f.     Quiet community                                       77.7 %
     g.     Recreational opportunities                             88.8 %
     h.     Safe environment                                      100.0 %
     i.     Small town atmosphere                                 100.0 %
     j.     Other: There are four seasons here

3.   Should the rural atmosphere be preserved?

     a.     Yes 100 %                                             No       0
     b.     If yes, how should it be done?
                     Keep homes on large acreage, maintain CC&R’s, no 1/4 acre lots in 1 acre
                     area, limit density and land use, manage growth, it is already being done.
     c.     Should existing farm land be preserved? Yes 88.8 % No 22.2 %
     d.     How should it be done? Tax breaks, water cost incentives, require more open
            space in developments, the land is privately owned leave it alone.

4.   Would you favor developing a system of walking/bicycle trails throughout the
     community?
           Yes 55.5 %                          No 44.4 %

5.   Please mark on a scale of 1 - 5 your concerns on each of the following: Traffic, safety,
     street and road conditions, unsafe ORV use, street dedication.

     a.     Off-highway vehicles on streets - 0 = 44.4 %, 2= 22.2 %, 5 = 33.3 %
     b.     Speed/traffic control - 0 = 1 = 11.1 %, 3 = 33.3 %, 4 = 22.2 %, 5 = 33.3 %
     c.     Road conditions - 0 = 11.1 %, 2 = 11.1 %, 3 = 22.2 %, 4 = 33.3 %, 5 = 22.2 %


                                         Page 16 of 21
      d.      Unsafe ORV use - 0 = 44.4 %, 5 = 55.5 %
      e.      Street dedication - 0 = 44.4 %, 4 = 11.1 %, 5 = 11.1 %

6.    Desired commercial or industrial business?
             Yes 22.2 %                             No      44.4 %
      What types of commercial would be desirable?
             Restaurant, feed store, storage units,
7.    Where should it be located?
             Near the substation south of the valley, in St. George

8.    Rate your experience with the following local services as they relate to your area.
      Excellent = 5, Poor = 1, No experience = 0.

      a.      Ambulance / medical - 0 = 44.4 %, 3 = 11.1 %, 4 = 11.1 %, 5 = 22.2 %
      b.      Water service & quality - 1 = 11.1 %, 3 = 33.3 %, 4 = 11.1 %, 5 = 44.4 %
      c.      Electrical power service - 2 = 22.2 %, 3 = 33.3 %, 4 = 11.1 %, 5 = 33.3 %
      d.      Fire Protection - 0 = 22.2 %, 4 = 33.3 %, 5 = 44.4 %
      e.      Garbage Service - 4 = 22.2 %, 5 = 77.7 %
      f.      Law Enforcement - 0 = 33.3 %, 3 = 11.1 %, 4 = 33.3 %, 5 = 22.2 %
      g.      Postal Service - 3 = 22.2 %, 4 = 11.1 %, 5 = 66.6 %
      h.      School Transportation - 0 = 33.3 %, 4 = 33.3 %, 5 = 22.2 %.
      i.      Telephone Service - 1 = 22.2 %, 2 = 11.1 %, 3 = 33.3 %, 4 = 22.2 %, 5 = 11.1 %.
      j.      Cell Phone Service - 1 = 44.4 %, 2 = 33.3 %, 3 = 11.1 %, 5 = 11.1 %
      k.      Other - Natural Gas - 4 = 11.1 %

9.    Should the community provide recreation facilities for residents of the community?
             Yes 11.1 %                         No 66.6 %

10.   If answer is yes, list desirable facilities: Hiking trails, ATV trails

11.   How can you best be informed about meetings, times, agendas, events, issues, etc?

      a.      Word of mouth - 44.4 %
      b.      Mail boxes - 99.9 %
      c.      Fire Station - 66.6 %
      d.      Posting on the internet - 88.8 %
      e.      Other - Store - 11.1 %, Home Owners - 11.1 %

12.   Did you participate in the Vision Dixie program?
             Yes 33.3 %                     No 77.7 %
      What did you like most about it? It was a good presentation.




                                            Page 17 of 21
             WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY SURVEY ANALYSIS
                                 FOR
                  THE COMMUNITY OF DAMMERON VALLEY
                               2010-2011

On July 27, 2010, members of the Washington County Planning Department met with residents
of the community of Dammeron Valley at the Dammeron Valley fire station. The group was
small, but those present entered into a discussion of the Dammeron Valley community.
Questionnaires were completed by those present with others able to submit the same information
over the internet or to fill out the form and submit them to the county planning office.

Following is a summary of the questions asked, and the comments that were responded to by
those present along with other comments submitted to the planning office

The length of time that residents have lived in the community was 8 years, and the average
family size reported was 3.

Many reasons were given for living in Dammeron Valley. These reasons included being born or
raised there; close to family, friends or neighbors. Because Dammeron Valley has not been in
existence for that many years, more reasons for living there included such things as being close
to the mountains and parks; the open space; it being a quiet community; the opportunities for
recreation; a safe environment, and all respondents favored the safe environment and the small
town atmosphere. One resident was attracted by the four seasons that exist in the valley.

All residents agreed that the small town atmosphere should be maintained. As to how to do this,
such things as keeping homes on large lots, maintenance and enforcement of the CC&R’s; and
by managing growth.

Most respondents also would like to maintain the agricultural use of land in the area. To do so, it
was suggested that tax breaks be enacted; water cost incentives should be offered to agriculture;
more open space should be required in developments; or, because it is private land, it should be
left alone.

There seems to be an interest in developing walking and bicycle trails in Dammeron Valley,
although the comments submitted also showed a strong feeling that these things are not
necessary or desirable. The respondents were quite evenly divided on this issue. .

A few respondents considered off-highway vehicles on the streets to be a problem. Most did not.
However, most had a significant concern relative to traffic control and speed on the streets of
Dammeron Valley. Road conditions seemed to be mostly acceptable, with a few respondents
indicating that further improvement would be desirable.

Relative to the unsafe use of ORV units in Dammeron Valley about half of the respondents had
no opinion, and the other one-half felt that there was a significant problem. Perhaps more
education of users, especially under-age riders might be necessary.




                                            Page 18 of 21
A majority of those in Dammeron Valley are not supportive to commercial development in
Dammeron Valley. Among those that favored commercial development, such things as
restaurants, a feed store, and storage units were suggested. However, even among those wanting
some commercial development, the logical location was somewhere south of the valley near the
electrical substation or even further south, in the City of St. George.

There are a number of local public services that are provided in Dammeron Valley. These
include such things as ambulance service wherein about half of the respondents indicated having
no experience with ambulance service. This may indicate a healthy population not needing this
service. Among those seeing a need, or having had experience, most felt that the service was
reasonably good.

The provision of culinary water was rated very high suggesting a well run water system.
Electrical service generally rated quite high, and fire protection was generally good. Among the
best rating was garbage collection with law enforcement also getting generally high marks. The
service of the Post Office also rated very high, indicating that residents are mostly satisfied with
the service of the Post Office.

Many residents were unfamiliar with the provision of school transportation, indicating that many
of the residents do not have children of school age. Among others, transportation to schools was
rated good to excellent with no poor ratings.

Telephone service appeared to receive an “adequate” rating, but cell phone service would
indicate that perhaps additional cell phone service would be beneficial. Either a resident has a
service that works in the valley, or it does not. Overall, improvement in this area seems to be
desirable.

In terms of being informed of meetings, public notices, etc., a notice posted near the mail boxes
received the highest rating. The use of the internet also rated high, followed by notice at the fire
station, followed by work of mouth from one resident to another.

A few years ago, the county sponsored a planning effort titled “The Vision Dixie” program. As
far as respondents were concerned, most did not participate in this planning effort, with only a
few indicating that they had been involved. More will be said about this program as a part of the
body of the General Plan that is the major part of this questionnaire process.




                                            Page 19 of 21
     WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY STATISTICAL SURVEY
                            FOR
              THE COMMUNITY OF DAMMERON VALLEY
                         2010-2011

1.   Residency status

     a.     How long have you lived as this location? 8 year average
     b.     Number in family     3 average
     c.     Home Owner 100 %
     d.     Land owner 100 %             3.25 acres average

2.   Please mark characteristics that you value the most or that help you choose to live or own
     property in this area.

     a.     Born or raised in the area                            22.2 %
     b.     Close to family, friends, or neighbors                22.2 %
     c.     Close to mountains                                    77.7 %
     d.     Like the open space                                   88.8 %
     e.     The opportunity to keep horses, animals, etc.         77.7 %
     f.     Quiet community                                       77.7 %
     g.     Recreational opportunities                             88.8 %
     h.     Safe environment                                      100.0 %
     i.     Small town atmosphere                                 100.0 %
     j.     Other: There are four seasons here

3.   Should the rural atmosphere be preserved?

     a.     Yes 100 %                                             No       0
     b.     If yes, how should it be done?
                     Keep homes on large acreage, maintain CC&R’s, no 1/4 acre lots in 1 acre
                     area, limit density and land use, manage growth, it is already being done.
     c.     Should existing farm land be preserved? Yes 88.8 % No 22.2 %
     d.     How should it be done? Tax breaks, water cost incentives, require more open
            space in developments, the land is privately owned leave it alone.

4.   Would you favor developing a system of walking/bicycle trails throughout the
     community?
           Yes 55.5 %                          No 44.4 %

5.   Please mark on a scale of 1 - 5 your concerns on each of the following: Traffic, safety,
     street and road conditions, unsafe ORV use, street dedication.

     a.     Off-highway vehicles on streets - 0 = 44.4 %, 2= 22.2 %, 5 = 33.3 %
     b.     Speed/traffic control - 0 = 1 = 11.1 %, 3 = 33.3 %, 4 = 22.2 %, 5 = 33.3 %
     c.     Road conditions - 0 = 11.1 %, 2 = 11.1 %, 3 = 22.2 %, 4 = 33.3 %, 5 = 22.2 %


                                         Page 20 of 21
      d.      Unsafe ORV use - 0 = 44.4 %, 5 = 55.5 %
      e.      Street dedication - 0 = 44.4 %, 4 = 11.1 %, 5 = 11.1 %

6.    Desired commercial or industrial business?
             Yes 22.2 %                             No      44.4 %
      What types of commercial would be desirable?
             Restaurant, feed store, storage units,
7.    Where should it be located?
             Near the substation south of the valley, in St. George

8.    Rate your experience with the following local services as they relate to your area.
      Excellent = 5, Poor = 1, No experience = 0.

      a.      Ambulance / medical - 0 = 44.4 %, 3 = 11.1 %, 4 = 11.1 %, 5 = 22.2 %
      b.      Water service & quality - 1 = 11.1 %, 3 = 33.3 %, 4 = 11.1 %, 5 = 44.4 %
      c.      Electrical power service - 2 = 22.2 %, 3 = 33.3 %, 4 = 11.1 %, 5 = 33.3 %
      d.      Fire Protection - 0 = 22.2 %, 4 = 33.3 %, 5 = 44.4 %
      e.      Garbage Service - 4 = 22.2 %, 5 = 77.7 %
      f.      Law Enforcement - 0 = 33.3 %, 3 = 11.1 %, 4 = 33.3 %, 5 = 22.2 %
      g.      Postal Service - 3 = 22.2 %, 4 = 11.1 %, 5 = 66.6 %
      h.      School Transportation - 0 = 33.3 %, 4 = 33.3 %, 5 = 22.2 %.
      i.      Telephone Service - 1 = 22.2 %, 2 = 11.1 %, 3 = 33.3 %, 4 = 22.2 %, 5 = 11.1 %.
      j.      Cell Phone Service - 1 = 44.4 %, 2 = 33.3 %, 3 = 11.1 %, 5 = 11.1 %
      k.      Other - Natural Gas - 4 = 11.1 %

9.    Should the community provide recreation facilities for residents of the community?
             Yes 11.1 %                         No 66.6 %

10.   If answer is yes, list desirable facilities: Hiking trails, ATV trails

11.   How can you best be informed about meetings, times, agendas, events, issues, etc?

      a.      Word of mouth - 44.4 %
      b.      Mail boxes - 99.9 %
      c.      Fire Station - 66.6 %
      d.      Posting on the internet - 88.8 %
      e.      Other - Store - 11.1 %, Home Owners - 11.1 %

12.   Did you participate in the Vision Dixie program?
             Yes 33.3 %                     No 77.7 %
      What did you like most about it? It was a good presentation.




                                            Page 21 of 21
Page 22 of 21
