                     PINE VALLEY COMMUNITY GENERAL PLAN


INTRODUCTION

The General Plan for the Pine Valley Community is a part of the General Plan of Washington
County. Planning in Washington County began about 1970 and has continued since that time.
The most recent update of the plan was in November 1995. However, a Plan for the Pine Valley
Community was prepared in 1992 but did not consider the Pine Valley area in any detail. In the
year 2002, the County Commission appointed a planning committee to work with the County in
the updating of the General Plan for Pine Valley. This committee has work diligently for the past
year to gather information relating to the valley, review and strive to understand the information
gathered and to prepare an updated plan for the Pine Valley Community. Included in this effort
was a community survey sent to all property owners in the valley to gain input as to the things
that are important to those that live here whether year around or during the summer months.
This plan then, becomes the first comprehensive look at the Pine Valley Community area.


BASIS FOR PLANNING

The authority for a General Plan comes from enabling legislation passed by the State of Utah and
found in the Utah Code, Article 17, which outlines the methods to be followed, and charges the
County Planning Commission with the development of a General Plan.

Many other public agencies also are involved in planning for the areas that they are responsible
for, such as the Bureau of Land Management, the National Forest, and the National Park. The
Forest Service is presently involved in an update of the Forest Management plan for the Dixie
National Forest that will impact land surrounding the Pine Valley Community.


PURPOSE OF THE PLAN

The purpose of the plan is to serve as a guide for orderly development. It sets the pattern for
growth and change. It expresses the goals as to what the area should look like in the future, and
it establishes the policies or guidelines for achieving these goals.


THE GENERAL PLAN AND ACTION

Effectuating the Plan is the responsibility of public and private groups. The Plan alone does not
cause things to happen, nor does it give precise recommendations for development of various
projects. The Plan provides the road map to follow. Vehicles of implementation, such as the


                                               1(D)
Zoning Ordinance and the Subdivision Ordinance, are needed to carry out the provisions of the
General Plan.


UNDERSTANDING THE PLAN

The General Plan identifies various land use categories and considers the use of each of these
classifications. Many of these types of land use are considered in terms of Goals and Policies
that are adopted as a part of the Plan. Goals and policies are described as follows:

A GOAL represents an objective relative to some aspect of development that the County has
determined to achieve.

A POLICY is an action that will allow, or help the County to achieve the desired goal.


ELEMENTS OF THE PLAN

The Pine Valley Community is a beautiful area with many unique characteristics. There are
many qualities about the area that set it apart from other areas of the County. Therefore, as the
area continues to grow and develop, it is necessary that the things that make Pine Valley what it
is, are preserved. The amount of land is limited because the valley is surrounded by public land
under the jurisdiction of the National Forest system. There is a limit to the amount of water that
can be developed in the area as well as a limit to the number or solid waste (septic tank) disposal
units that can be constructed without the need for a central collection and treatment system.

It is the intent of the Plan to guide development in a manner that will maintain and protect the
values that have caused people to come to this area. The Goals and Policies of the County to
accomplish this purpose are identified in the various elements of the plan.


BACKGROUND AND HISTORY

Pine Valley is located near the geographical center of Washington County. The valley is
surrounded by the Pine Valley Mountains. Vehicular access is limited to a paved Forest Service
road running eastward from the town of Central. Central is served by State Highway 18 which
connects St. George on the south and Enterprise on the north.

Andrew Karl Larson in his book I Was Called to Dixie, describes Pine Valley in the following
Manner. “Pine Valley is near the headwaters of the Santa Clara, in a sequestered spot that
delights the eye of the beholder when it comes suddenly into view as he tops the hill on the
northwest. So must it have delighted the sensibilities of Isaac Riddle when the valley came into
his vision as he came over the eastern rim in 1855 looking for a strayed cow belonging to the


                                               2(D)
members of the Indian Mission at Fort Harmony. What he saw was tall lush grass that rubbed his
horse’s belly and wet his stirruped feet as he rode through an area yet untouched by man. The
tall timber of aspen, spruce, and pine grew thick on the slopes of the rugged hills and in the
canyons that opened into the valley.”


Timber attracted the first settlers of the valley and with the construction of a saw mill in the valley
in the fall of 1855, much needed timber and shingles were provided to surrounding settlements
including the St. George valley, southern Nevada settlements as far south as the Muddy settlement
near Overton and to Pioche on the north, as well as to Silver Reef on the east side of the
mountain. In fact, timber for the St. George LDS Tabernacle, and the Salt Lake Tabernacle Organ
came from Pine Valley.

As the timber industry gradually died out, farming and livestock raising increased. In 1868 the
frame chapel, designed by Ebenezer Bryce, an Australian ship builder, was built of native timber.
There are still a number of pioneer homes standing in Pine Valley as evidence of the work of early
pioneer stock settling in the valley.

In time the number of residents in the valley declined from a high of about 300 until finally there
were no full-time residents living there. Over the years, Pine Valley became more known as a
summer home area for residents of southern Washington County and southern Nevada. Not until
the 1970's did people once again began living year around in Pine Valley. There are currently 30 -
35 families claiming Pine Valley as their permanent home. That number increases many fold
during the summer months when seasonal residents return for the summer.


QUALITY OF LIFE

There is a quality of life in Pine Valley that is available nowhere else in this area. The town has a
historic flavor to it because of its history and background. This element itself creates a certain
feeling toward the valley because of its pioneer heritage.

Another factor that impacts the quality of life is the surrounding National Forest. The valley is a
small island surrounded by public land, thus limiting the amount of development that can take
place. The Forest Service is encouraged not to trade private land found elsewhere in the National
Forest for land adjacent to Pine Valley. The size and scale of the community are very important to
the residents of Pine Valley.

The fact that the valley is predominantly made up of residential dwellings and open space, without
the impact of significant commercial or any industrial development, adds to its unique character.
As identified throughout this plan, the residential and open space character of the valley should be
protected and preserved while other conflicting uses should continue, for the most part, to be
minimized. Any industrial development should not be allowed.


                                                 3(D)
Changes to the character of the valley should come slowly, and then only after careful thought and
consideration as to their impact on the quality of life that people here have come to expect.
Besides the temperature change in Pine Valley compared with the temperatures elsewhere in
southern Utah and southern Nevada, it is the quality of life that attracts people to the Pine Valley
area. This plan attempts to identify in more detail some of the qualities that make Pine Valley
what it is, and recommendations are made for maintaining that quality while still allowing the
valley to continue to grow and develop.


TOPOGRAPHY, GEOLOGY, AND CLIMATE

Pine Valley is set in the midst of the hills of the Pine Valley Mountains. Located at an elevation
just over 6,500 feet above sea level, the valley is several thousand feet higher than the southern
part of the County. It is small wonder that the early settlers quickly learned about going to Pine
Valley during the hot summer months.

Temperatures in the valley vary in the summer with warm days and cool evenings. The valley
remains cool until after sunrise in the mornings. High daytime temperatures may be in the 80's
compared to well over 100 degrees in the lower valley’s. Winter temperatures are much cooler
with daytime temperatures often remaining below freezing and dipping well below zero at night.

The community is somewhat flat with a general slope from the easterly end of the valley to the
west. Mountain slopes rise rapidly from the valley floor to the tops of the mountains at over
10,000 feet in elevation.

The valley is generally located within a tertiary sedimentary and igneous rock formations which in
turn is underlain by the claron, grapevine wash, iron springs, dakota, carmel, and temple cap
formations before reaching the navajo sandstone.


ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS

The major environmental concern in Pine Valley is the effect that groundwater has on the future
development of the valley and the impact that it may have on other areas outside of the valley
itself. From the groundwater protection study developed by Hansen, Allen, and Luce, published
in July 1998, two potential areas of concern are identified as follows:

1.     Groundwater flow patterns within the valley are generally controlled by alluvial flow
       systems with ground water gradients of 6.7% to the west toward the town of Central. With
       a developed zone some 4,500 feet wide, an average saturated thickness on the order of 200
       feet, and a permeability of between 10 and 25 feet/day. The total ground water moving
       westward would be between 5,050 and 121,653 acre feet per year. It is estimated that it
       would take approximately 18.5 years for a contaminant originating in Pine Valley to travel


                                               4(D)
       the five miles to Central.

2.     The second community potentially impacted by Pine Valley contamination may be those
       utilizing ground water wells located within the Millcreek drainage north of Washington.
       A review of geologic mapping shows strong north-south trending fracture systems which
       have been documented to traverse at least 2/3 of the distance between Pine Valley and the
       City of Washington. A contamination source therefore within Pine Valley that entered an
       open fault system may find it way to the Millcreek well field. Should such a flow path
       exist, it is estimated that it would take some 75 to 80 years for the contaminant to show up
       in the Millcreek drainage.

The same groundwater protection study made a recommendation for septic tank density to protect
downstream water from becoming contaminated. The actual figures from the study indicate a
density of two acres per septic tank in the Pine Valley area. Such a density, applied to the land in
the basin, would allow for an additional 520 dwelling units north of the river and 1,610 dwelling
units south of the river. These figures likely represent more dwelling units than the amount of
vacant, privately owned land will support at a full build-out level. This is particularly true if no
development takes place in the meadow area of the valley where the water table is probably too
high to permit installation of septic tanks.


LAND USE ANALYSIS

During the fall of 2002, a land use survey of the valley was completed by members of the
Planning and Historical committee. The valley was divided up into sections and the survey was
recorded by section. (See Figure 1) The number of single family homes at the present time in the
valley is 401. Additionally, there were 300 vacant building lots identified which could provide
sites for 300 more homes to be built. Most of the existing homes are second dwellings or summer
homes. However, there are presently about 35 of these homes occupied on a full-time basis by
year-around residents. Using the State average of persons per dwelling unit of 3.7, there could be
as many as 1,483 residents of Pine Valley in the area on any given day or weekend during the
summer months when most of the dwellings are occupied. An additional 1,110 residents could be
added if all vacant building lots were built on.

In addition to the residential lots, there are 18 parcels of agricultural land that also contain
residential dwellings. They are classified in the land use survey as residential agriculture. This
would increase the population potential by another 66 residents, making the present “build-out”
population of Pine Valley somewhere near 2,650 to 2700 residents. While most of these would be
summer time residents, the number of year around residents continues to increase.

Besides the parcels of land discussed above, there were identified some 19 vacant parcels of
varying sizes throughout the valley. This number indicates that there is still additional land that
could be developed with building lots in the future, with a still greater increase in the number of


                                                5(D)
potential residents.

While not specifically a part of Pine Valley insofar as this planning study is concerned, the
National Forest campground east of Pine Valley provides campsites used by residents of other
areas. This adds many more people to the population of the region at any given time. The
campers are not considered to be residents of the valley. However, they all travel through the
valley to and from the campground which adds traffic on the streets. Others come to the valley to
stay at the Pine Valley lodge, or to eat at the fine restaurant in Pine Valley. Some others come to
Pine Valley simply to sightsee, or to get away from the heat of the lower valley for a period of
time.

Other uses identified in the land use survey include commercial uses which include the lodge,
restaurant, and a real estate office. There is also a church building in Pine Valley. Dixie State
College maintains a building in Pine Valley for educational purposes related to the College. It is
not available for use by the general public.

The National Forest also maintains buildings inside the town site of Pine Valley. These include a
visitor center, lodging facilities for employees, and maintenance facilities. There are a new and an
old fire station in the valley as well as a Post Office facility. The fire station also includes a
meeting room that is used for town meetings of the Special Service District Board and the
Planning and Historic Advisory Committee.

The largest single use of land in Pine Valley is for agricultural use. The beautiful meadows that
lie in the center part of the valley encompass some 550 acres. Much of this land is sub-irrigated
by the Santa Clara River flowing through the valley. This same river, because of the high water
table that it creates through much of the meadow land, causes much of the land to be unsuited for
installation of septic tanks which would be required for residential development. For this reason,
unless a sewage disposal system was installed in the valley, which most residents hope to avoid,
the land will, for the most part, probably remain classified as agricultural land.

Altogether in the Pine Valley community town site there are approximately 1,300 acres of land.
This acreage includes the cemetery that was originally part of the National Forest, but was deeded
to the Pine Valley Water Company some years ago for upkeep and maintenance. The cemetery
lies just outside of and adjacent to the original town site.


AGRICULTURE / OPEN SPACE


Agricultural and open space areas of the valley may include the National Forest land surrounding
the community, some of the steep hillside slopes in parts of the valley, and the meadows along the
Santa Clara River running through the center of the valley. Following are goals and policies
relative to the agriculture / open space classification and use of land in the Pine Valley


                                               6(D)
community:


GOAL:        Identify agricultural / open space areas within the valley and provide protection
             from development in the areas identified. Areas that because of steep slopes, high
             water table, or other natural considerations should be maintained as agricultural or
             open space areas in order to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the present
             and future residents of the valley.


POLICIES:

      •      Maintain an agricultural / open space designation along the Santa Clara River and
             all associated land having a high water table not conducive to septic tank
             installation.

      •      Some of the meadow areas may be in the 100-year flood plain. Do not issue
             building permits, or approve subdivisions in these areas.

      •      There are some streams and washes coming from the adjacent hills toward the
             Santa Clara River. Maintain these streams and washes and preclude them from
             being developed, or filled in by other adjacent development.

      •      Encourage the National Forest not to exchange any forest land in the valley for
             private land located elsewhere in the County. Allow the public lands to provide a
             buffer between the valley and other private lands outside the valley.

      •      Protect steep hillside land from being scarred by grading for home or subdivision
             development.

      •      Continue to encourage uses in agricultural and open space areas that will allow
             these areas to remain open. Livestock grazing in the valley should be continued
             and encouraged on low lying lands with a high water table.

      •      Establish zoning classifications that will preserve the Agricultural / open space
             lands identified in the valley as well as protecting the open space forest lands
             surrounding the valley.

      •      Encourage “green belt” classification of agricultural land.

      •      Encourage the establishment of agricultural protection areas according to State and
             County ordinances to protect the agricultural use.
      •      Educate new residents as to the agricultural character of the valley and solicit their


                                              7(D)
               support for agricultural use of land to avoid citizen complaints against livestock
               grazing operations.

       •       Work to maintain the quality of water in the Santa Clara River as it passes through
               the Pine Valley community.


RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT

Residential development is the primary type of development taking place in the Pine Valley
community. There are three distinct residential areas in the valley. These include (1) the west
area of the valley containing the Pine Valley Ranchos and other areas located nearby, (2) the
central part of the valley which is dominated by the original town site development of lots, blocks,
and streets, and (3) the subdivision and commercial development lying between the original town
site and the forest boundary on the east


GOAL:          To provide for residential housing in attractive, functional neighborhoods to meet
               the needs of potential residents.


POLICIES:

       •       Residential development should be encouraged to continue as the predominant type
               of development in the valley.

       •       Continue to use the same standards for manufactured homes as for other types of
               residential construction.

       •       The Zoning Ordinance should be used to determine the housing densities in
               different areas. Identify such densities in areas where they are not already
               designated.

       •       Maintain the overall density recommendations of the Ground Water Protection
               Study.

       •       Consider developing a plan for density transfer from areas where development is
               not feasible to areas where a greater density could be approved.

       •       Encourage home owners to use “earth tones” on exterior and roof treatments when
               constructing new homes in order to create a community that harmonizes without
               calling undue attention to particular dwellings because of bright color tones.



                                               8(D)
       •       Encourage residents to plant trees within lots and along streets. This would help
               beautify the town, and by placing the town under a canopy of trees, it would help
               provide shade and cooler temperatures during the summer months.
       •       There are many “small” parcels of residential property in the original town plat.
               While these small lots are legal lots of record, lot owners should be encouraged to
               combine small lots into larger parcels that comply with the current zoning
               classifications.

       •       Encourage new residents to take into account the relationship of their home to
               those around them in considering the height and size of a new dwelling, the
               direction of desirable views, etc., in order to help maintain a sense of scale in the
               valley, thereby not simply creating a valley filled with “large boxes” which block
               the view shed of others.


COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT

Commercial development in the Pine Valley Community should be kept to the minimum needed
to serve the convenience needs of the residents. People are attracted to Pine Valley not only
because of the summer climate, but also the peace and quiet that prevail in the valley. No
development which could change that characteristic of the valley should take place.

Most residents are not in favor of additional commercial development as evidenced by the
responses to the citizen survey recently sent out and returned by residents of the valley. Respect
the wishes of the majority of the residents. The number of requests by single individuals for
specific commercial businesses does not warrant significant expansion of the commercial area
beyond the present boundaries.


GOAL:          Allow only sufficient development to provide for the convenience commercial
               needs of valley residents.


POLICIES:

       •       Limit commercial development to the areas where limited commercial
               development already exists in the valley.

       •       Any request for additional commercial business must provide for water and waste
               disposal in the same manner as for residential development.

       •       Encourage existing commercial business to maintain a high quality of appearance
               and service.


                                                9(D)
       •       Do not permit any commercial or noncommercial activity in the valley that would
               generate light, sound, or increased traffic not consistent with normal residential
               development



PUBLIC FACILITIES

Public facilities account for a great number of things that are of importance to the residents of the
Pine Valley community inasmuch as individual home owners and business owners are dependent
upon such things as water, power, waste disposal, access and circulation, and other similar
infrastructure that goes toward making up a viable and liveable community. The following are
some of the services that are available in one form or another that go toward making Pine Valley a
delightful place to live.

Cemetery       The Pine Valley cemetery is located at the intersection of the Pine Valley road and
               the roadway running eastward from the Pine Valley road along the north side of the
               valley. The cemetery is owned and operated by the Pine Valley Irrigation
               Company. The size of the property is ten acres, about two acres of which have
               been developed and platted.

               There is no landscaping in the cemetery, but it is covered with natural vegetation.
               There is no water available and maintenance is done by way of volunteer labor
               during periodic cleanup days. The road to the cemetery and parking at the
               cemetery have recently been graveled and improved. It is estimated that the
               cemetery should serve the community for at least fifty years. There is a charge for
               burial plots which could be amended from time to time by the water company.


GOAL:          Provide an area where those desiring to do so can acquire burial plots and be
               buried in the Pine Valley cemetery at a minimal cost.


POLICIES

       •       Continue to maintain the cemetery as is presently done by the Pine Valley
               Irrigation company.

       •       Encourage citizens to “turn out” to help on clean up days to keep the cemetery
               looking neat and attractive.

       •       Do not change the character of the cemetery through the removal of natural


                                               10(D)
              vegetation, landscaping, etc.

Fire Protection
              The Pine Valley fire department consists of one paid officer and one paid
              secretary along with a volunteer force of 14. The department has a new (1998)
              fire station, 2 pumpers, 1 reserve pumper, and two brush trucks. The present fire
              rating is a 6. This was last evaluated in 1998. The fire department works under the
              supervision of the Special Service District.


GOAL:          Continue to improve the ability of the fire department to serve the community of
               Pine Valley, and continually work to lower the fire rating from its present level.

POLICIES:

       •      Continue to train fire fighters in all aspects of fire fighting, including structural and
              wild land fire fighting.

       •      Continue to acquire fire fighting equipment for the fire fighters.

       •      Encourage the Forest Service to continue to develop a “fire break” around the
              community on the adjacent forest service land.

       •      Continue to work with the irrigation company to install additional fire hydrants in
              newly developed areas and to locate additional hydrants in already developed areas
              as necessary.

Law Enforcement
            Washington County is responsible for law enforcement in the Pine Valley
            area. The County also has a contract with the Forest Service to provide law
            enforcement on National Forest land adjacent to the community, including the
            forest campground area.


GOAL:         Continue to improve the level of law enforcement in Pine Valley.



POLICIES:

       •      Work with the County Sheriff and other County authorities encouraging them to
              increase the number of patrols in Pine Valley especially during the summer season
              and on holiday weekends.


                                               11(D)
       •         Work toward having a full-time, or part-time officer in Pine Valley during summer
                 or peak times of the year, and encourage more coverage during the off-season.

Postal Service
                 Postal service is provided by the United States Postal Service office out of Cedar
                 City Utah. Deliveries are made six days per week, excluding Sunday’s and
                 holidays. Mail is delivered to a building located on Main Street, next to the fire
                 station. The facility provides a mail drop only, and no other services are available.
                 There are 304 regular boxes that are available. The current level of service is
                 excellent.


GOAL:            To maintain the quality of service that is presently available to residents of the Pine
                 Valley area, and to continue to improve facilities and service as time goes on.


POLICIES:

       •         Continue to make the Pine Valley Post Office one that the residents of the valley
                 and the Post Office officials can be proud of.

       •         Continue to provide a service to the residents of the valley by having bulletin board
                 space announcing community activities and making the post office a gathering
                 place for residents.

       •         Expand the facility as necessary to provide for the needs of the residents, and at
                 some future time, construct a permanent, enclosed building with additional
                 services found at regular post office buildings.

Waste Disposal
              Presently the valley is served by a common garbage disposal site about one
              mile out of town on land provided by the Forest Service adjacent to the highway
              coming into Pine Valley. The site is maintained by the Washington County solid
              waste district. The district is made up of one representative from each of the
      incorporated cities in the County and one County representative. This facility
      provides a significant improvement over previous collection sites which provided
       for several small collection sites around the valley.


GOAL:            Work with the solid waste district to continue to improve the quality of service at
                 the collection site, especially during summer months, on weekends and holidays.



                                                 12(D)
POLICIES:

       •      Continue to keep the area around the dumpsters cleaned up and presentable to
              residents and visitors.

       •      Request from the solid waste district that collections be more often on weekends
              and holiday periods.

       •      Work to have larger dumpsters (roll-offs) made available at the site for weekend
              and holiday use.

       •      Continue to increase the number of dumpsters beyond the present number as the
              community continues to grow and develop with more and more residents using the
              service.

Culinary Water
            Culinary water to Pine Valley is provided through springs and storage tanks
            located in various parts of the valley. There is a 200,000 gallon storage tank on the
            west side of town and a 250,000 gallon tank on the east side. The main spring
            produces a flow varying between 630 and 250 gallons per minute depending upon
             he season and the length of the drought that the area is currently in. Four Hundred
            acre feet of water is presently committed to the system and an additional 1,800 acre
            feet could be added as necessary. A new well is currently nearing completion and
            will be added to the system as soon as it is complete.


GOAL:         Make certain that there is sufficient culinary water available at all times to serve
              the needs of the community for culinary use and for fire protection.


POLICIES:

       •      Monitor the system regularly to determine that there is adequate water in the
              system at all times to meet the needs of the valley.

       •      Comply with all State testing and monitoring requirements to make sure that the
              system is state approved at all times.

       •      Add additional water to the system when necessary to provide for the needs of the
              residents.

       •      Continue to upgrade the distribution system throughout the valley to make sure that


                                              13(D)
              there is adequate water and water pressure available at all times.

       •      Make sure that there are adequate fire hydrants throughout the community to
              provide for fire protection. Coordinate fire fighting needs with the fire department.

       •
       Electricity
              Pine Valley is served by the Dixie Escalante Rural Electric Company. The
              capacity of the line at the present time is 2.5 megawatts. A new line has been
              constructed from Pinto which will provide 13.7 megawatts of power. The
              equipment for a new substation has been ordered, and will be installed within a
              week of its arrival. It    will be located near the solid waste facility and will allow
              the 13.7 megawatts to be utilized. The system would then be adequate to serve
              approximately one thousand dwellings.


GOAL:         Develop sufficient electrical power in Pine Valley to provide for the present and
              future needs of the residents, both permanent and part-time.


POLICIES:

       •      Support the Forest Service in providing the necessary easements to allow the
              substation to be constructed.

       •      Encourage development of the new substation as soon as possible to continue to
              make adequate power available.

       •      Monitor the electric needs of the valley and communicate the need for power
              regularly with the power company.

Communication
           Pine Valley is presently served by Quest communications for telephone
           service. According to telephone company representatives, there is sufficient
           capacity in the present system to provide telephone service to anyone in the valley
           at the present time and well into the future. Only if some type of large-scale
           development took place would the amount of lines available become a problem.

              Presently fiber optic lines run only as near as the Veyo area. They may not be
              readily available in Pine Valley. Because of the seasonal character of the valley,
              major changes in the telephone system are not anticipated in the near future other
              than continuing to accommodate the request for telephone service by single family
              home owners on an as-needed basis.


                                               14(D)
              Depending upon the company providing the service, and the location in the valley
              of the person using a cellular telephone, cellular phones provide some additional
              service to the area. Quality of service by cellular telephone is known to vary
              somewhat throughout the valley.


GOAL:         Continue to have good telephone service provided to residents of Pine Valley.


POLICIES:

       •      Support the telephone company as necessary in continuing to provide adequate
              telephone service to the valley.

       •      Encourage the telephone company to continue to upgrade the system with
              improved capabilities as they are able to do so.

       •      Do not support the installation of cellular towers anywhere in the valley where they
              could be seen by residents from their various home locations.

Circulation & Transportation
             Circulation and transportation are very important to the residents of the Pine Valley
             community. Only the main road from Central to Pine Valley is a paved road. This
             road extends through the community to the Pine Valley Forest Camp Ground, and
             westerly to the western end of Main Street. All other streets, except those in some
             of the more recent subdivision developments, are gravel roads. A secondary access
             into Pine Valley is on Forest Service land running north from the Pine Valley /
             Central road. This roadway runs through Grass Valley and connects with the Pinto
             and New Castle areas. This road is generally unimproved, and it would be up to
             the Forest Service to make any needed improvements.


GOAL:         Work with Washington County and the Forest Service to continue to improve and
              upgrade the roads in the Pine Valley community.




POLICIES:

       •      Prepare a map of roads in Pine Valley and identify the condition and needs
              associated with each roadway.



                                              15(D)
       •       Discuss with the County the present level of maintenance that is provided in each
               of
               these road areas.

       •       Encourage the County to work with the Forest Service for continued improvement
               of the road between Pine Valley and Central.

       •       Encourage land owners in any given subdivision who desire to have their roads
               paved to work together, or with the County, to create improved districts for those
               areas desiring improvement.

       •       Work to encourage the Forest Service to dedicate their portion of the roadway
               serving the north side of the valley.

       •       Work with the County to develop a plan for snow removal to be carried out on
               valley roadways during winter months.

Historic Preservation
              There are a number of historic homes and other locations in Pine
              Valley. Several homes were built by early settlers and are still used today. In
              addition, the site is still known of several historical sites related to the lumber
              industry that should be identified and preserved.


GOAL:          Preserve and identify historic homes and other historic sites in Pine Valley.


POLICIES:

       •       Catalog the location of all historic homes and other historic sites in the valley.

       •       Create an identifying marker or historic sign that could be used to identify each of
               the previously cataloged sites.

       •       Map the location of each identified site and make this map available to residents
               and visitors to the valley.

       •       Prepare a short written history of each of the historic sites identified. Include the
               history as a part of a visitor’s guide or historic map of the valley.

Parks & Recreation
            Pine Valley is surrounded by the National Forest. In addition, there is a
            forest camp ground adjacent to the community. Most of the people who come to


                                                16(D)
               Pine Valley come for rest and relaxation. The recent community survey filled out
               by full-time and part-time residents indicated that there is no current demand for
               structured recreation facilities in Pine Valley.

               There is sufficient land adjacent to the fire station, approximately
               nine acres, that could be developed at some future time for park,
               recreation, and picnic facilities should the demand for such kind of activity
               increase in the future. Likely such improvements would be made by the volunteer
               efforts of residents. At this time, no structured recreation facilities are planned for
               Pine Valley. This reflects the desire of most of those returning survey forms. The
               adjacent Forest Service development provides for picnics, hiking, fishing, and
               other relaxing activities.


       Paths & trails There are presently a significant number of walking and hiking trails in
             the valley with trail-heads on Forest Service land. Some of these trails allow
             motorized activity, but some do not. Maps of trail systems are available at the
             Forest Service visitor center. The citizen survey recently completed indicated that
             there is not a demand or a need for walking, or trails of other kinds, to be
             developed in the community at this time.

               Pine Valley is in an area where various trails are planned and are in the process of
               being proposed on a broad scope as a part of a countywide or multi-county trail
               system. Some of these trails may connect closely to the Pine Valley area. The
               Pine Valley community is opposed to any inter-county trails passing through the
               community. In approving any such trail system, provision must be made to go
               around the town rather than through any portion of it. The construction of a
               bridge across the gulch west of town has been discussed. This would provide the
               necessary connection between the Grass Valley Forest Service road and the old
               Pine Valley road on the south side of the gulch and west of town. A better solution
               might be to locate any inter-county trail further to west of Pine Valley entirely.

               Additional efforts toward local trail development could be taken up again at some
               future time when there is an indication that such facilities would be desirable to
               residents of Pine Valley.

Special Service District
              As with most of the unincorporated parts of the County, and authorized under
              authority of the Utah Code, a Special Service District has been created in the Pine
              Valley Community. Special Service Districts are created for the purpose of
              providing for the special needs of a given area that may not be needed in exactly
              the same manner as other areas of the County. The Pine Valley Special Service
              District was created by resolution of the County Commission on December 27,


                                                17(D)
               1978

               This Special Service District was formed primarily to take care of the needs of the
               residents of the valley in the area of fire protection, water development, and septic
               tank disposal. Other functions of the board may be added from time to time by the
               County Commission as it is shown that other needs should be addressed. The
               board has the authority to levee taxes for the purpose of taking care of the needs of
               the Valley. At this time, the members of the board are appointed to staggered
               terms by the County Commission. The board meets on a regular monthly basis and
               is available to consider concerns of any resident of the valley at any time.


SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS

Pine Valley was first discovered by pioneer settlers as early as 1855. The valley has gone through
several changes since that time which include a period of timber production during which time
there was a significant population in the valley. Following the demise of the timber industry, the
valley changed to mostly an agricultural setting with livestock and animal production providing
the main activity in the valley. From a population of some 300 residents, the valley changed to
the point where no one lived there on a year around basis. In the 1970's there once again began to
have families living in the valley on a permanent basis although the predominant use of land since
the 1970's has been for seasonal or summer home development.

Presently, the greatest use of the valley is for residential use on a seasonal basis. The center of the
valley is still used for livestock grazing. The attraction of the valley is its peaceful, pastoral
setting where things are quiet and where one can get away for a time from the “hustle and bustle”
of city life. For this reason alone, residents are very hesitant to see any significant changes in the
valley in terms of commercial development, public recreation activities outside of the forest
campground, and other development that would tend to urbanize the valley.

Most residents responding to a questionnaire sent out by the special service district and the
planning and historical committee either didn’t respond, or of the nearly 50% that did respond,
indicated that they most liked the valley the way is was and did not want to see any significant
change in any area of development.

For this reason, the planning and historic committed, in preparing this General Plan of the valley
to guide growth and development, have been very conservative in their recommendations for
change. Most categories of land use are recommended to maintain their current status and public
services are recommended to continue to provide for the growth of the valley, but not to introduce
any number of services that are not presently found.

There were individual requests for certain changes such as more commercial, a golf course, parks
and recreation areas, paths and trails, etc., but these comments represented the thoughts of only


                                                18(D)
one or two rather than the majority who responded to the survey. A copy of the survey, along
with the numbers and percentages who responded is attached to this plan as an appendix to it.

This plan will be forwarded to the County Planning Commission for review and recommendation,
as required by State law, and then considered in public hearing by the County Commission for
adoption as the General Plan of the Pine Valley community. It will then be added as a part of the
General Plan of Washington County and will be referred to for information whenever any
significant proposal for development in the Pine Valley area comes before the Planning
Commission or the County Commission.




                                              19(D)
