           THE GENERAL PLAN
                   FOR
          THE COMMUNITY OF
BROOKSIDE / PINE VALLEY MOUNTAIN FARMS
                 2010-2011

 A PART OF THE WASHINGTON COUNTY GENERAL PLAN
                      2010




                   Prepared by
              The Washington County
               Planning Department
    THE BROOKSIDE / PINE MOUNTAIN VALLEY FARMS COMMUNITY
                          GENERAL PLAN
                            2010 - 2011

Introduction:

The Brookside/Pine Valley Mountain Farms community is a part of the unincorporated
part of Washington County. It is one of about twelve unincorporated communities in the
county. Residents of this community, and others, should take time to review Section I of
the County General Plan which discusses planning in general, the basis for planning, and
the purpose of planning. Many of the things mentioned in the beginning of Section VII
are also relevant to the residents of this part of the county. The General Plan provides
guidelines for the future of this particular part of the county in addition to those things
that are applied county-wide in the other sections of the General Plan.

The Brookside / Pine Valley Mountain Farms community is interesting inasmuch as the
original development in Brookside took place prior to the county having any type of
planning ordinances such as subdivision or detailed zoning regulations. On the other
hand, the Pine Valley Mountain Farms subdivision development is among the more
recent subdivisions in the unincorporated area of the county. Access to the Brookside
area is through the Pine Valley Mountain Farms subdivision. Roads are paved in Pine
Valley Mountain Farms and are dedicated county roads, while the roads in Brookside are
unimproved and undedicated. While these areas are technically two separate
developments, they are generally referred to as the Brookside development.

The first plat in Brookside was recorded on June 16, 1965, with two or three phases being
added later. The Pine Valley Mountain Farms subdivision plat was recorded on April 19,
1976, with a smaller phase added at a later date. All of the Brookside subdivision plats
contain a total of 108 recorded lots, and the Pine Valley Mountain Farms plats contain 43
lot. There is some land north of the Farms subdivision containing a farm house and one
other home along with land acreage which combines with the subdivision areas to make
up the community.

Geography and Topography:

Pine Valley Mountain Farms was developed alongside State Highway 18 between St.
George and Enterprise in Washington County. The subdivision was located just a few
miles north of the community of Veyo which is also unincorporated. The Brookside
development originated at a lower elevation than its companion subdivision, and was
platted in lots on both sides of the Santa Clara River. Because many of these lots back up
to the river, the subsequent home development, in most cases, took place at the back of
the lots with the homes being constructed immediately adjacent to the river.

The location of these homes are in a beautiful location and have especially been desirable
to part time home owners who have developed their property as seasonal homes for



                                             2
seasonal use as opposed to the year-around residents who live there. County records
would indicate that about 45 - 50 lots in the Brookside area are second dwellings mostly
for owners who spend a portion of the year in Brookside, but whose primary residence is
outside of Washington County.

To the east of the Brookside development the topography rises quite quickly toward the
Pine Valley Mountains. Not all of the Brookside lots are immediately adjacent to the
river. Later development was still below the hill, and developed with private roads, but
was removed from the river by some distance with some lots being located against the
hillside.

The open land north of the Pine Valley Mountain Farms area also is adjacent to State
Highway 18, and was the land originally settled in the area. At one time, the access to
the Brookside development was through this land, along a road known as the Lucky 7
Ranch Road, which ran not far from the original farm home. The Brookside access was
changed following the development of the Pine Valley Mountain Farms subdivision.

All of this community is located north of the community of Veyo, and is surrounded on
three sides by public land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, and further to
the east, the Dixie National Forest. There is private land on the south side of the
community leading to the community of Veyo, which land is mostly undeveloped and
primarily in an open space category.

                                    Table I
            Land Ownership in Brookside / Pine Valley Mountain Farms

       Bureau of Land Management              660.99 acres          1.03 sq. miles
       Private Land                           861.13 acres          1.35 sq. miles

                              Total:       1,522.12 acres*          2.38 sq. miles*

* These totals reflect the area identified as a part of the community for General Plan
purposes and does not reflect the total amount of BLM land surrounding the community
for a significant distance on three sides of the community.

                                      Table II
                                EXISTING LAND USE

               Residential Development              257.25 acres    0.24 sq. miles
               Agricultural Development
               Commercial Development
               Industrial Development               15.82 acres     0.02 sq. miles
               Vacant, undeveloped, grazing        494.72 acres     0.77 sq. miles

                              Total:                 762.79 acres   1.03 sq. miles




                                            3
The above figures are does not survey accurate, but they do paint a relative picture as to
the relationship between the various types of land use.

Open Space:

There is a significant amount of open space in the area surrounding the Brookside/Pine
Valley Mountain Farms development. It is managed by the BLM, and the present open
space use of land is not likely to change in the foreseeable future. The only current use is
the small area used as a cinder pit lying to the west of the community. The part of the pit
currently being used could be expanded, but the overall size of the cinder pit is what it is.
It is not likely to get any larger.

There is a large parcel of private land lying toward the northern end of the community
that is also mostly open space and land used for livestock grazing. There are currently
two dwellings in this area. Agricultural use is not likely to expand beyond small areas
currently being used. However, if services, particularly water, were available in large
quantity, the area could be developed residentially similar to the other developments in
the community.

Agricultural Land:

Other than individual home gardens, there is virtually no agricultural development in this
community. The actual amount would be too small to calculate as a percentage of the
total land area. There is not a lot of land area where agricultural pursuits could be
pursued.

Residential Development:

The only type of residential development in the community is single family dwellings.
This is the type of development that has been planned and carried out since the area was
started. The soil condition in Pine Valley Mountain Farms does not lend itself to farming
with a rather shallow layer of soil to absorb septic tank effluent.

In the case of the Brookside development, the dwellings are generally located close to the
Santa Clara River which may cause septic tank problems by the proximity of the
dwellings to the water course.

In order to support other types of residential development, i.e. townhomes,
condominiums, apartments, etc., it would require an on-site treatment plant of some kind
to take over the liquid waste requirements. This is not likely to happen any time soon.
The General Plan discusses this situation further in the service section of this Plan.

There are a total of 43 lots in the Pine Valley Mountain Farms subdivision. There are still
approximately 10 vacant lots in this development. The Pine Valley Mountain Farms
development has essentially reached "build out." In the Brookside Development there are
some 108 platted lots along with some lots sold by metes and bounds and not platted. In



                                              4
the Brookside section of the community there are approximately 50 lots that are vacant
and available for building.

With about 60 vacant lots in the entire community, the entire area is not far from "build -
out." The actual number of building permits issued for dwelling units over the past ten
years is shown Table III as follows:

                                       Table III
                         Residential Permits Issued 2001 - 2010

                       Year            PVM Farms              Brookside
                       2001            0                      1
                       2002            0                      3
                       2003            0                      1
                       2004            0                      0
                       2005            1                      2
                       2006            0                      1
                       2007            2                      2
                       2008            1                      0
                       2009            1                      0
                       2010            0                      2

                       Totals:         5                     12       combined = 17

Over the past ten years there has been an average of almost 2 permits issued each year.
With some 150 lots in the community and about 60 of them being vacant, and an average
of 2 building permits being issued each year, the community could support further
development of permits per year for another 30 years before reaching complete build-out.
This projection does not anticipate a great amount of future growth to take place.

Current Population and Population Density:

As a part of the unincorporated area of the county, specific population figures for each of
the individual unincorporated communities are not available. The total population for
Washington County unincorporated, based upon the recent census information, was 7,606
residents, or a community about the size of the City of Ivins.

The average family size in the county is in the range of 2.8 to 3.2 residents per dwelling
unit. This is a little less than the average family size found in the statistical information
gathered for this community. However, using an average of the county figures and
estimating about 3.0 residents per family, it can be estimated that the General Plan would
project the current community population to be in the range of 270 residents. This would
constitute a community between the size of the Town of Rockville, and the Town of
Springdale. .




                                              5
Future Growth and Development:

Projecting population over the next ten years is best done by using the average number of
permits for the past ten years combined with possible future growth. Building permits
could be expected to increase incrementally over a period of time. The desire for single
family homes will likely continue even though the Vision Dixie Plan calls for a mixed
use type of development with higher density interspersed with single family and
commercial development. How quickly the economy rebounds will determine how
quickly additional homes will be built in the community.

Using a projected annual growth similar to the average number of building permits of the
2001 to 2010 period, the General Plan would project an increase of 60 residents over the
next ten years. This would make for a population growth in 10 years of about 300 more
residents.

The General Plan also calls to the attention of the residents of the area; Brookside is
home to a number, about 50, homes as second dwellings. This could reduce the
permanent population over the next ten years to even less than 300 permanent residents.

Vision Dixie Principle Summary:

Along with recommendations for residential growth and future development in the valley,
along with other types of development such as commercial growth, the Vision Dixie
Project, which was sponsored by Washington County a few years ago, and which was
adopted by the county upon completion, makes recommendations for many other phases
of community development. A summary of the Vision Dixie Principles and their
relationship to this area is shown as follows:

1.     Plan regionally; implement locally - The General Plan for this community is a
       local plan for the residents of this area. It is also intended to be adopted as a part
       of the Washington County General Plan.

2.     Maintain air and water quality, and conserve water - Air and water quality is very
       important to the residents of this combined community. Most of the people, who
       live in communities such as this area, are there because of the clean air that exists.
       Conservation is also evident because of the limited outdoor watering on
       individual lots and the amount of natural landscaping that exists. There are trees
       in the area to provide summer shade, but much landscaping is of a natural variety
       that does not require additional water.

3.     Guard our signature landscapes - See the section of the plan dealing with open
       space development. Most of the land surrounding the community is under the
       direction of the BLM, with the mountains to the east controlled by the Forest
       Service. There are no plans for development on any of this land. The areas
       surrounding this community should protect the view shed of this area with the




                                              6
     possible exception of views to the south which contain a considerable amount of
     private land which could generate development.

4.   Provide connected natural recreation areas and open spaces - There is no shortage
     of natural open space recreation areas surrounding Pine Valley Mountain
     Farms/Brookside. This area is available for open space recreation activities.
     There is no significant desire on the part of residents to develop additional
     recreation facilities within the community, but there are natural and developed
     recreation areas within a close distance to this area already existing.

5.   Build a balanced transportation system - The county has developed a county-wide
     transportation plan. See Section III of the General Plan for further information
     the county transportation plan. As far as such things as a commuter bus system
     connecting St. George City and Enterprise, that service is still many years in the
     future, but could become a reality at some future time with stops along the way in
     the various communities between the two cities.

6.   Get centered by focusing on growth in walkable mixed use centers - In a
     community such as this one, that was developed prior to the Vision Dixie Plan
     being developed, it is difficult to retrofit the community into a mixed use center
     now that it has been almost fully completed. The community is compact enough
     that it could be considered to be generally walkable as it is currently developed.
     Residents responding to the county questionnaire were not in favor of developing
     any system of walking or bicycle trails, as such. But those things are available in
     the community as it is currently developed without any special consideration to
     those services.

     It is not a mixed use community in the true sense of mixed use, although the two
     aspects of the community do provide a variety of living experiences, either on the
     bench adjacent to Highway 18, or in the Santa Clara River valley below the rim. It
     would be difficult at this time to identify areas for a true mixed use of residences
     to be developed. Unless a sewage system was installed for the entire community,
     it would be difficult to develop lots of a mixed use nature using septic tanks as the
     means of waste disposal even if there was still an undeveloped part of the
     community where it could be done. To develop mixed use in the open space area
     north of Pine Valley Mountain Farms would require a system of waste disposal as
     well as a source of culinary water. It could happen, but is not likely in the near
     future.

     The future of commercial development as a part of a mixed use center is
     discussed in a future section concerned with commercial development.

7.   Direct Growth Inward - The area has developed with relative compact growth.
     This community, as well as all other unincorporated communities, has not been
     able to support a higher mixed use density using septic tanks. On-site treatment
     systems have not been available for use in Utah until recent years. There are



                                           7
       currently no such facilities in use in the county except for a large common septic
       tank system in the Pinion Hills area of Dammeron Valley.

8.     Provide a broad range of housing types - This element has been discussed
       previously. As far as the unincorporated communities of the county are
       concerned, the variety of housing types is definitely limited. As far as housing
       types are concerned, the county approves conventionally built homes and modular
       homes. There are probably more modular homes in the county than in any of the
       cities and towns. However, all of these types of dwellings are of a single family
       residential nature. The limitations to mixed use housing are discussed above.

9.     Reserve areas for industry - The residents of this area have strongly indicated that
       they are not in favor of industrial development. One industrial development does
       exist to the west of the community in the form of a cinder pit leased by the Bureau
       of Land Management as a community pit with a portion leased for commercial
       use to a business in the St. George area. Such things as a cinder pit or gravel pit
       are located where they are, but to locate various types of industrial business in this
       area is not feasible because of the distance to freeway travel and to the markets
       that are associated with long distance transportation. Any additional industrial
       use of land in this community is not proposed by the General Plan and is not
       likely to happen.

10.    Public land conversion - No conversion of public land is needed for the build-out
       or additional growth of this community. The only potential for future
       development in the valley which would include more land being added to the
       existing development lies to the north and south of the current development, all of
       which are already on private land. While the acquisition of some public land for
       future use might be possible, it does not appear to be a feasible, or needed,
       alternative in the case of Brookside or Pine Valley Mountain Farms. .

Commercial Development:

Commercial development is mostly non-existent in this community. Those responding to
the county questionnaire were nearly unanimous is their recommendation against any
significant commercial business in the area. In terms of the Vision Dixie Project, the
recommendation relative to commercial development was to identify an area in the
community center within 3/4 mile of all of the residential development and to combine
commercial development with a mixture of residential development.

The General Plan, in identifying an area where a commercial center could exist, would be
on the land north of Pine Valley Mountain Farms. However, a true mixed use of
residential and commercial use would not be possible without the construction of an on-
site waste disposal system.

The General Plan suggests that to locate business along the State Highway in an effort to
attract travelers to stop along the Highway would not be successful. Economics



                                             8
determines the decision to create a commercial center. That demand would not appear to
exist at this time in this area.

Residents suggested that commercial development be left to the desire of residents as
whether or not to develop commercially. The General Plan would generally support this
policy. If commercial development did take place, the General Plan recommends that it
be done to serve the residents and not to cater to the traveling public, therefore a
Highway location would not be necessary or useful. Many of the residents suggested that
the convenience commercial facilities currently located close by in Veyo, were sufficient
to fill the needs of residents of this area.

A very small commercial business was started years ago and was zoned commercially at
that time. It involved a commercial fishing operation which was not successful. A small
gift shop exists along the highway today, also in a commercial zone. By themselves,
without being part of a larger commercial center, neither of these commercial businesses
could be projected to generate a lot of commercial activity.

There are many home occupations in Washington County. There are most likely home
occupations existing in this community. More of the home occupation types of business
can be expected to continue and are regularly licensed by the county.

Public Services:

A section of the General Plan relative to public services in the county is contained at the
beginning of Section VII of the county General Plan. Many comments are re-stated here
as they specifically apply to this part of the county.

Electricity:

Electric service is provided by the Rocky Mountain Power Company. Some years ago, a
major sub-station was constructed near the Dixie Deer Subdivision. At the present time,
the power company is planning another major expansion of the sub-station with another
transmission line being brought from the facility in Sigurd, Utah, to the facility near
Dixie Deer Estates. When this facility is completed in about 3 to 4 years, the west side
communities of Washington County should be provided with good electrical service for
many years into the future.

Natural Gas:

A number of years ago the Questar Gas Company installed a natural gas line from a point
near the town of Central, running parallel to State Highway 18 southward toward the City
of St. George. The installation of this line made natural gas service available to
communities along the way. This line connects with the other major supply line serving
the St. George Valley from the east, giving service to most of the county from either
direction. This supply of natural gas should e sufficient to serve all of the communities
connected to the system for both current demand and for future growth.



                                             9
Water:

The water in this community is provided from two separate sources. In the Brookside
subdivision portion of the community, water is provided by the Veyo Water Company.
This supply is sufficient for all of the currently subdivided property. It is not sufficient
for any significant growth and expansion anywhere in the water company area of service.
In the case of the Pine Valley Mountain Farms subdivision, water was provided from a
mutual water company created to serve this particular subdivision. Again, the supply of
water is sufficient for the needs of the subdivision area, but would not provide for
significant expansion into currently undeveloped areas.

Both of these water companies appear to be well managed and have a good record in
providing service to each of the areas that they serve. The citizens comments submitted
to the county indicate good satisfaction on the part of the residents for the service
presently being provided. The General Plan expects that this level of service will
continue to both of these areas as they currently exist.

There is the potential in future years for water to be obtained from the Washington
County Water Conservancy District as is being made available to other incorporated and
unincorporated communities in the county. The Water Company is continually extending
their service line further north along Highway 18, and could well be available to this area
in the future so that supplementary water could be obtained by either water company
should it become feasible and desirable to do so.

Sewage Disposal:

Presently, liquid waste is disposed of through the use of individual septic tanks. This
system seems to have served the valley well up to this point. There are some concerns
about long-term use of septic tanks in the community because of shallow soil levels in the
Pine Valley Mountain Farms area, and proximity to the Santa Clara River in the
Brookside part of the community.

The General Plan recommends that consideration be given in the future to developing a
system in the community in which property owners could pay a fee similar to fees
charged in areas where sewage systems exist, and to use these funds for regular
inspection of septic tanks and to provide for pumping, or making repairs to any system in
the community that was in need of repair or maintenance at no additional cost to the
homeowner. By using such a system, the Department of Environmental Quality would
feel that septic tanks can continue to be used in this area safely for many years.

It is much easier to eliminate the possible effects from septic tank failure by taking a pro-
active position rather than waiting until problems surface, and then trying to find a good
solution.




                                             10
Roads:

Road maintenance for the roads in Washington County is done by the Washington
County road department. These roads are classified as "Class B" roads by the State of
Utah. Depending upon the degree of improvement, the county receives funds from the
State for maintenance purposes. This amount is subject to change from year to year with
the funds coming from the gasoline tax applied to all gasoline purchased throughout the
country.

Dirt roads receive the least amount; paved roads receive the most money. In Washington
County roads have historically been maintained with the money received from the State
gasoline tax. Property tax money has not been used for road maintenance in this county.

It has long been the county policy to maintain roads in essentially the condition in which
they were created. If property owners want to have their roads improved too a higher
standard, the position of the county has been that when the owners of an area bring their
roads up to that higher level, the county will then maintain them at the new standard.
This is sometimes done through an improvement district that spreads the cost of
improvement over a period of time, usually not more than ten years, instead of a one-time
payment up front from the property owners.

In the case of the Brookside area, the property owners appear to be strongly opposed to
dedication of their roads if it means bring them up to the current county standard.
However it would appear that many of these same residents would favor having the
county do some routine maintenance of their roads.

Many of these roads have no established right-of-way, although the most recent addition
to the Brookside does have an identified right-of-way even though the roads are still
private.

The General Plan makes a recommendation that representatives from Brookside meet
with county officials to explore the possibilities of dedicating the Brookside roads in their
current condition, and that they will be maintained in their current condition without any
effort to improve or upgrade them.

Citizens of Brookside living on the far side of the Santa Clara River have expressed a
desire to have a second way out of this area in time of flood or disaster. The General
Plan points out that the north-south road east of the river was the original road from the
Pine Valley area to the St. George valley. This road was used until such time as State
Highway18 was constructed. Therefore, it is likely a county road by right of use based
upon its historical use in the county. The General Plan recommends that the county
should explore what it would involve to open the road from Brookside to Veyo,
Dammeron Valley, or to Baker Dam for emergency use. This road could be maintained
in a dirt condition unless upgraded at a future time by the residents of Brookside. The
most feasible route would appear to be a distance of about six miles via the Bonnie
Springs Road to Dammeron Valley.



                                             11
Another issue raised by residents is the desire for a larger bridge crossing over the Santa
Clara River in the Brookside area. The General Plan could support such a request, but
does raise the concern that if such a bridge was constructed and it was clogged during a
flood period by a large tree, or other debris, the resulting flood in the valley would be
much greater than it is with the current crossing. Again, the county could not consider a
new bridge unless the roads were public roads. In the short term, it may be a wiser
decision to improve a secondary access out of the area than to get into a discussion of
how best to improve the river crossing. Such a discussion cannot begin until such time as
the roads have been dedicated to the public.

Fire Protection:

Fire protection in the community is provided by the volunteer fire department in the
community which is a part of the Northwest Fire District in Washington County. A fire
station was constructed several years ago on a parcel of BLM land in the Pine Valley
Mountain Farms area. The fire department members receive training within the
Northwest Fire District and from county-wide training that is available. The fire district
participates with the fire chiefs association on a county-wide basis. It would currently
appear to be adequate for the needs of the community as it can continue from this time to
enlarge and get even better over the years.

Public Safety:

Police protection is provided by the Washington County Sheriffs' Office. This service
will continue as long as the valley continues as an unincorporated part of Washington
County. This method of police protection would continue even if the valley was
incorporated until such time as the incorporated town created their own law enforcement
department. Some communities have contracted with the county for an increased
visibility of officers in their community through a contract with the county calling for
more visibility of sheriff's officers through a specific contract, and with the additional
funds being raised by the community.

Solid Waste:

A Solid Waste Board made up of one representative from each city or town in the county,
along with one member of the county, oversee the collection of solid waste in the county.
This board contracts with a private collection company to provide the collection of waste
throughout the county. There is a central land fill location which is owned by the county,
and is managed by the solid waste company. That site is expected to be sufficient for
many years to come. This system of management and oversight is also expected to
continue, and appears to be adequate to serve the community.

Some residents have requested door to door pickup which would obviously cost the
residents an increased fee from the current charge. Most citizens appeared to be quite
satisfied with the satellite facility that is located close by for the use of residents.



                                            12
Building Inspection:

Inspection of new construction is provided by the county Building Department. With the
low number of permits being issued, the General Plan would recommend that this method
of inspection continue. The cost of county building permits is significantly less than
comparable costs in most of the incorporated cities and towns.

Communication:

Most of the county is served by the CenturyLink communication company. In addition to
CenturyLink services there are a number of private cellular companies providing service
within the county. Except for the possibility of adding additional cellular towers over
time, most residents expressed a generally favorable opinion with the current level of
telephone service. This level of service will likely continue with improvements from
time to time by private cellular companies.

Flood Control:

Flood control has not been a major problem in the Pine Valley Mountain area of the
community. Flooding does take place from time to time in the Brookside subdivision
area. Many of the original lots and homes built in Brookside are shown to be in the flood
plain area as shown on the Federal flood maps. This area was subdivided, or sold by
metes and bounds, prior to the county developing its first subdivision ordinance and flood
control ordinance. However, those living along the river enjoy the beauty and tranquility
that exists in that area most of the time. Flooding does take place along the river from
time to time. This issue was discussed previously in the section dealing with roads in the
community. There is probably not a good answer to this problem with the lots and homes
being where they are, and with the river being subject to flooding from time to time.

Annexation / Incorporation:

As far as this community annexing to another city or town, there is no incorporated city
or town to which this area could annex. Incorporation of an unincorporated area into a
town is always a possibility. The position of the county has been that government that is
closest to the people is usually the best form of government. There are towns in the
county, notably Rockville and Springdale that have a population that is less than the
population of this development. On the other hand, with the size of this community in
the county, and the projected slow level of growth that is likely to take place in the future,
there would appear to be no good reason for the General Plan to recommend that the
community seriously consider incorporation at this time. Whether or not to incorporate is
a local decision. The county will continue to support each area of the county as an
unincorporated part of the county, and does not attempt to influence any area of the
county as to whether or not to incorporate.




                                             13
          WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY SURVEY ANSLYSIS
                              FOR
     THE COMMUNITY OF BROOKSIDE / PINE VALLEY MOUNTAIN FARMS
                            2010-2011

        On August 12, 2010, members of the Washington County Planning Department
met with the residents of the community of Brookside/Pine Valley Mountain Farms at the
Pine Valley Mountain Farms Fire Station. The group was not large. However, in
reviewing the questionnaires returned, it can be assumed that the number of
questionnaires filled out would represent a valid cross-section of residents of the entire
community. The feelings of one part of the community are not that far distant from the
feelings of residents of the entire area.

Following is a summary of the questions asked, and the comments that were responded to
by those present at the community meeting along with other copies of the questionnaire
submitted directly to the planning office via the internet, or otherwise.

Residency Status:

The average time of residency by those responding to the questionnaire was 9.5 years.
This figure indicates a stable population base in the community, many of whom have
lived there for upwards of 15 years. The average family size of those responding was 3.6
which is slightly larger the average family size in the county. Most residents live on
platted subdivision lots with 2 or 3 indicating that they have acreage up to almost twenty
acres in a couple of cases. Most of the land, in the larger parcels, is used for livestock
grazing with very little actually used for farming. All except for one respondent
indicated that they were a home owner as opposed to a land owner only.

2.      Characteristics that cause you to live or own property this community.

Many characteristics were listed as being reasons for people wanting to live in this area.
The most identified being close to the mountains and parks, the opportunity to keep
livestock animals, desire to have open space, a safe living environment, and a small town
atmosphere. All of these are factors are indications of a desire for maintenance of a rural
community atmosphere away from many of the characteristics of city living.

3.      Should the rural atmosphere be preserved?

The answer is one hundred percent yes by those responding. A few ways to maintain the
rural atmosphere were given and include the following: Keep farm animals, don't tax so
high that property owners have to sell their land to pay taxes, keep things as they are with
no major changes.




                                            14
4.     Should farm land be preserved?

Again there was a strong feeling to preserve farmland, even though realistically, farming
in the community is not very great. Those who responded with a "NO" answer were
really saying, whether to farm or not to farm is up to the land owner. They should be
allowed to farm as long as the desired to do so, but only if that is what they want to do.

5.     The question related to developing walking or bicycle trails in the community.

A few favored such development along existing roads. In the Brookside area, such trails
should remain a "dirt" condition without any paving. Most residents however, were not
in favor of creating a system of trails or bike trails in the community. Obviously, walking
along existing roads, or bicycling along existing roads as they are, can be done without
making any special effort to identify a specific or separate trail or bicycle system.

6.     Mark concerns about each of the following conditions:

Off highway vehicle use received mostly comments of no concern. Speed and traffic
control did not receive a significantly higher concern with only a few respondents
indicating even a slight concern. The same mild concern was relative to unsafe use of
such vehicles. Most residents indicated no concern relative to dedicating roads. The
roads in Pine Valley Mountain Farms were dedicated when the subdivision plat was
recorded. The roads in Brookside are private roads. The responses may indicate that
there is no desire to have the county take over the maintenance of these roads if
improvement of them was a condition of dedication. Dedication would have to be done
before any county maintenance would have to precede any county involvement.

7.     Commercial and Industrial development.

The responses would indicate that there is no desire to have commercial or industrial
development take place in the community. Some said to leave it up to the land owner
whether or not to develop commercial or industrial development. Most felt that St.
George was near enough for this type of development to take place.

8.     A similar response to the question asked above.

9.     Rate local services as they relate to your area.

Most citizens either had no experience with ambulance service, or felt that the service
was excellent. Water service was generally rated as adequate. Electrical power was rated
about the same as for water service. Generally okay, but not great. Most felt that
garbage collection was excellent because of the disposal site near the community. A few
would prefer door to door pickup, but were not totally opposed to the disposal site
nearby. Law enforcement was rated as adequate, if not excellent. The post office




                                             15
delivery was given high ratings as was telephone service. The quality of cell phone
service appeared to depend upon the type of cellular service being used.

10.     Should recreation services be provided?

The answer to this question was strongly NO. Very few felt that some recreation would
be good, and at least one said maybe. Facilities suggested included baseball fields.
Others suggested using existing facilities in other areas such as Pine Valley or Baker
Dam.

11.     This question is covered in the previous response.

12.     How can you best be informed about meetings?

Word of mouth and the use of the mail boxes were the highest methods suggested. Many
said to put notices at a store, if it existed, but at this time, no such facility is proposed. A
few were in favor of using the county web site, which is already being used, and a few
would prefer having notices mailed, which, because of cost, is probably the least likely
method to happen.

13.     Did you participate in the Vision Dixie Program?

The 100 % answer was No, even though there were some comments about the county not
buying into the program, even though the county adopted the results.

14.     No comments relative to the Vision Dixie plan in the community were made.

15.     Some final comments were made and can be found at the end of the statistical
        summary.




                                              16
     WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY STATISTICAL SURVEY
                          FOR
 THE COMMUNITY OF BROOKSIDE/ PINE VALLEY MOUNNTAIN FARMS
                        2010-2011

1.   Residency Status

     a.     How long have you lived in this location?        9.5 years average
     b.     Number in family:    3.6 persons, average
     c.     Homeowners           92.9 %
     d.     Land owner only       7.1 %

2.   Characteristics that you value or that help you choose to live or own property in
     this area:

     a.     Born or raised in the area                      7.1 %
     b.     Close to family, friends, or neighbors          4.3 %
     c.     Close to mountains, etc.                      78.6 %
     d.     Like open space                               71.4 %
     e.     Opportunity to keep horses, animals, etc.     64.3 %
     f.     Quiet community                               78.6 %
     g.     Recreational opportunities                    50.0 %
     h.     Safe environment                              85.7 %
     i.     Small town atmosphere                         85.7 %
     j.     Other reasons: dirt roads, dark night sky - stars, slower pace of life,
            a garbage collection station nearby, away from the city, good neighbors,
            no curb & gutter, no concrete, county feel, beauty, peace, and tranquility

3.   Should the rural atmosphere be preserved?

     a.     Yes 100 %              No
     b.     How should it be done?        Keep farm animals, don't tax so high that
            owners have to sell, keep things as they are no major land use changes

     c.     Should existing farm land be preserved?         Yes 85.7% No 14.3 %
            How should it be done?           Better planning, Vision Dixie Principles
            buy it or lease it, let farmers keep farming, preserve it only if the farmer
            wants to, let the owners do what they decide to do

5.   Would you favor developing a system of walking/bicycle trails throughout the
     community? Yes 23.1 %                 No 76.1 %
           Dirt trails only, locate along roads



                                          17
6.     Mark on a scale of 1 to 5, your concerns on each of the following: Traffic safety,
       street and road conditions, unsafe ORV use, and street dedication. Most
       concerned = 5, least concerned =1, no problem = 0

       a.     Off-highways vehicles on streets - 0 = 64.3 %, 2 = 14.3 %, 5 = 14.3 %
       b.     Speed/traffic control - 0 = 28.6 %, 2 = 21.4 %, 3 = 42.9 %
       c.     Road conditions - 0 = 42.9 %, 2 = 35.7 %, 3 = 7.1 %, 5 = 7.1 %
       d.     Unsafe ORV use - 0 = 42.8 %, 2 = 21.4 %, 3 = 7.1 %, 5 = 7.1 %
       e.     Road dedication - 0 = 71.4 %, 1 - 7.1 %, 5 = 7.1 %
       f.     Other - don't pave roads, develop a second exit from Brookside, for fire
              and safety purposes, use Mt. View Lane to Veyo

7.     Desired commercial or industrial business - None, whatever people want to do,
       small growth, no big industry, small business only, home occupations only, we
       like it how it is

8.     Where should commercial or industrial uses be located - along main roads, below
       Winchester, downtown Saint George, wherever people want it if neighbors are
       okay

9.     Rate your experience with local services as they relate to your area - Excellent =
       5, Poor = 1, No experience = 0

       a.     Ambulance - 0 = 43.8 %, 5 = 35.7 %, 4 = 7.1 %, 3 = 7.1 %, 1 = 7.1 %
       b.     Drinking water service and quality - 0 = 14.3 %, 5 = 28.6 %,
              4 = 21.4 %, 3 = 7.1 %, 1 = 7.1 %
       c.     Electrical Power - 0 = 7.1 %, 5 = 14.3 %, 4 = 28.6 %, 3 = 42.9 %
       d.     Fire protection - 5 = 35.7 %, 4 = 21.4 %, 3 = 14.3 %, 2 = 7.1 %
       e.     Garbage collection - 0 = 35.7 %, 5 = 7.1 % %, 4 = 14.3%, 3 = 14.3 %, 1 =
              7.1 %
       f.     Law enforcement - 0 = 7.1 %, 5 = 28.6 %, 3 = 35.7 %, 1 = 7.1 %
       g.     Postal Service - 5 = 64.3 %, 4 = 28.5 %,
       h.     School Transportation - 0 = 21.4%. 5 = 50.0 %, 4 = 21.4 %
       i.     Telephone service - 5 = 85.7 %. 3 = 14.3 %
       j.     Cell phone service - 5 = 42.9 %, 4 = 28.5 %, 3 = 28.5 %
       k.     Other services desired - DSL service, more internet access, garbage pickup
              at homes,

10.   Should the community consider providing recreation services - yes - 7.1 %
      No - 71.4 %    Maybe - 7.1 %

11.    List facilities that could be provided - None, Pine Valley, Baker Reservoir, Veyo
       Park, Water at Baker campground, baseball fields



                                           18
12. How can you best be informed about meetings, etc?

       a.     Word of mouth          71.4 %
       b.     Fire Station           28.5 %
       c.     Store if constructed   50.0 %
       d.     Mail boxes             100 %
       e.     County web site        21.4 %
       f.     E - mail               14.3 %
       g.     Mail

13.    Did you Participate in the Vision Dixie planning program Yes 0       No. 14

14.    None

15.    Any final comments - No curb and gutter or street lights, have the county
       maintain the dirt roads, put a bridge over the river crossing, limit growth because
       of limited water, pave the main roads only.




                                           19
