            The General Plan
                  For
     The Community of Diamond Valley
              2010 - 2011

A part of the Washington County General Plan
                    2010



                Prepared by
           The Washington County
            Planning Department
       The Diamond Valley Community General Plan
Background and History:

Unlike many settlements in Washington County, the Diamond Valley area does not have
a historical pioneer heritage. The community is not mentioned in any history books on
the subject of Washington County. The private property in Diamond Valley has been
owned by a number of owners over the years, and it appears to have been used primarily
for ranching and livestock grazing.

In the late 1950's, Arlen D. Moore began purchasing property in the Diamond Valley
area, and consolidating much of the landownership in the valley. Mr. Moore was
responsible for the construction of a ranch house in the northern end of the valley. He
also constructed livestock stables, a bunk house, a pond, and developed much of the
original water supply that now serves the community.

In the early to mid 1970's a group of local investors joined together in purchasing the
Moore property and created an organization known as Diamond Valley Ranches, Inc.
This started the development of Diamond Valley, and the beginning of what has come to
be known today as the Diamond Valley community.

Over the years, Diamond Valley has developed into a quiet, attractive community not
fronting along State Highway 18, but rather developed into a quiet, attractive community
located off the highway, and nestled in the valley that was originally the Moore Ranch.
The developmental history of the valley therefore dates back about twenty-five to thirty
years, making it one of the more recent developments in Washington County.

Geography, Geology, and Topography:

Geographically, Diamond Valley lies about midway between the "historic" boundary of
the City of St. George, and the unincorporated town of Veyo. About the same time as the
development of Diamond Valley was taking place, other developments were springing up
along State Highway 18, including the communities of Winchester Hills, Dammeron
Valley, and its companion development of Pinion Hills. Diamond Valley is reached via
State Highway 18 between St. George and Enterprise which is located at the north end of
the county.

The topography of the valley generally slopes from north to south, and is surrounded by
relatively low hills sloping toward the Pine Valley Mountains. The valley itself slopes
generally toward the south and was, at one time self contained. This means that it was a
closed valley with no outlet at the south end of the valley, in effect creating a "dry lake"
in times of storm runoff.



                                              2
The closed valley has since been breached to allow water to escape from the valley into
the lava rocks at the southern end. Flooding in the valley is still a problem in some areas
of the community and this issue needs to be brought to a conclusion.

Quoting from a soils study of the county done by the U. S. Soil Conservation District
between the years 1967 and 1971, soils in Diamond Valley are generally identified as
belonging to a group of soils called the Napalene - Redbank - Schmutz - Palma
association. Most of the soils in this classification are formed in alluvium from
sedimentary and igneous rocks. These formations have many elements in common.
They are generally deep, well-drained brown and reddish-brown silt loams. Permeability
is moderately rapid above about 40 inches and moderate below 40 inches. Runoff is
considered to be slow and erosion hazard slight. Soils of this type are normally found in
slopes of 1 to 5 %. The soils will support irrigated and non-irrigated crops.

The community of Diamond Valley is generally identified as including about 19.1 square
miles (13,582.0 acres) of land. Diamond Valley essentially abuts Winchester Hills on the
south and Dammeron Valley on the north. The ownership of the valley is as follows:

                                      Table I
                          Land Ownership in Diamond Valley

               Ownership/Management                           Acres        Sq. Mi.
               National Forest                               2,877.84       4.50
               Bureau of Land Management                     6,338.21       9.90
               State of Utah                                   196.12       0.31
               State Park                                    1,575.50       0.34
               Private Land                                  2,584.19       4.04
               Quasi Public Land                                10.21       0.02

                                      Totals:               13,582.03       19.11

Land Use:

Most of the public land, specifically the land under the jurisdiction of the National Forest
land, and the Bureau of Land Management land, is vacant, undeveloped land except for
some minimal mineral development near the north end of the valley on BLM land. Much
of this land has historically been used for livestock grazing and has not changed for many
years.

The land inside the northern end of Snow Canyon State Park is generally an undeveloped
part of the Park, particularly the land that lies within the Diamond Valley community.
That part of the Park area is not likely to change at any time in the foreseeable future.
The natural lava rock on the State Park land provides for permanent open space, and
helps to provide a buffer between Highway 18 and the community.




                                             3
There is currently no land in the valley identified as commercial land beyond a number of
home occupations licensed to various residents. There is one identified mineral
extraction lease on BLM land that is used for the extraction of aesthetic rock products.
This site has been used for a number of years under a Bureau of Land Management lease,
years and could be classed as an industrial development, even though the use is minimal
in nature.

Another industrial use in the area is on a portion of the cinder pit adjacent to Highway 18.
Cinders have been removed for many years for use on roads in the area, to make cinder
blocks, and for decorative purposes. A portion of the pit is included in Snow Canyon
State Park. The balance of the site is privately owned and could still be used for the
mining of cinders.

Of the land in the Diamond Valley area under control of the State, some 180 acres belong
to the Institutional Trust Land Division of the State of Utah. This land could become
available for development.

There is an elementary school in the valley. The land for this school was obtained some
years ago when the Washington County School Board felt that an elementary school was
needed for this part of the county. The School District obtained ten acres of land from the
Diamond Valley developers, purchased a building lot from a resident which provided
access to the ten acre site, and moved ahead to construct the elementary school.

There is very little agricultural land in the valley. Land is still devoted to livestock
grazing.

                                          Table II
                                     Existing Land Use

               Residential Development                         410 acres      17.05 %
               Agriculture                                      79 acres       2.74 %
               Vacant Undeveloped Land /Grazing              1,876 acres      78.72 %
               Commercial                                        0 acres           0%
               Industrial                                        8 acres        .33 %
               Public / Quasi Public                            10 acres        .42%
                                     Total:                  2,383 acres      99.26 %

The above figures may not be survey accurate, but they paint a relative picture as to the
relationship between the various types of land use. Considering the private land in the
community alone, some 1,876 acres (78.72%) of private land is undeveloped. There is
still much room for various types of land-use development. One of the benefits of living
in Diamond Valley is that while the amount of private land would allow it to grow
significantly, it is really an island surrounded by public land, most of which likely will
never be developed.




                                               4
Open Space:

Approximately 81% of the land within the Diamond Valley community area is public
land. This land is open space, undeveloped property. Some of it could be, and probably
is used for livestock grazing. No other development on the public land is proposed. The
public land is not an area high in mining or mineral claims. The current mining of
decorative rock is likely the maximum amount of mineral activity on the public land in
the Diamond Valley area.

Agricultural Development:

Agriculture in Diamond Valley is mainly a small amount of dry-land farming and a sod
farm which has more recently been converted to crop farming in the form of alfalfa.
Prior to residential subdivision development taking place, the area was historically used
for livestock grazing, and was never a major farming area in Washington County.

With the limited amount of agricultural use taking place in the valley, it can be expected
that the amount of land devoted to agriculture will diminish as the need for other
development takes place. Anyone wanting protection should apply for an agricultural
protection area to protect their farmland from adjacent development. Once in an
agricultural protection area, it is not protected for any specific length of time. The land
owner may remove it from that designation at any time.

Residential Development:

The first subdivision plat in Diamond Valley was recorded on January 29, 1975. There
have been a total of nine plats recorded in subsequent years along with a few individual
lot splits. There are currently 378 platted and recorded lots, not including about 11 lots
that were approved outside of the platted area. The total number of dwelling units
presently existing in Diamond Valley is 313 homes along with various accessory or
miscellaneous buildings.

The actual number of building permits issued for dwelling units during the past thirteen
years is shown in Table III as follows:

                                       Table III
                         Residential Permits Issued 1997 - 2010

                              Year            Number of Permits

                              2000                    13
                              2001                     8
                              2002                     9
                              2003                    16
                              2004                    21
                              2005                    14



                                             5
                              2006                   2
                              2007                   6
                              2008                   2
                              2009                   0
                              2010                   0
                                             Total: 91      Average: 10.1 per year*

* Over the past decade there has been an average of 10.1 permits issued each year. This
does not include the years 2009-2010 when no permits were issued because of the decline
in the economy.

Theoretically, with 378 subdivision lots and 300 homes in platted subdivisions, Diamond
Valley could reach "build out" in about six more years. Realistically, that scenario will
not happen. Currently, according to the County Planning Department figures there are an
additional 300 lots in some state of proposed development. This many additional parcels
could, if fully developed, nearly double the current amount of residential development
available in the valley.

Current population and population density:

Because Diamond Valley is part of the unincorporated part of the county, population
figures are not available for the community itself. However, the average family size in
the county is in the range of 2.8 to 3.2 residents per dwelling. Using the total number of
dwelling units in the area, 313 and multiplying by an average of 3.2 residents, the current
projected population would be 1,000 residents. If the lower range of 2.8 residents per
dwelling unit is used, the total would be nearly 900. Perhaps a figure of 3.0 residents per
dwelling unit would be a more accurate figure, making the current population about 900 -
950 residents at this time.

From a density standpoint, Diamond Valley is very low. Using a population of 950
residents, and 10,997.84 acres, the density is about twelve acres per resident. By any
standard of measurement, that is a very low density.

Future Growth and Development:

Because Diamond Valley is unincorporated and is not adjacent to any other incorporated
city or town, Diamond Valley has essentially two choices in the future. One choice is to
incorporate as a town. The other is to remain as an unincorporated part of the county.
The General Plan has always stated that self determination is preferable to other forms of
government, and that the government closest to the people is the best possible form of
government. Nevertheless, the General Plan has no authority to require incorporation.
The decision as to whether to incorporate or not to incorporate would need to be made by
the residents of Diamond Valley.

Projecting population over the next ten years is best done by using the average number of
permits for the past ten years combined with possible future growth. Permits could be



                                             6
expected to increase incrementally over a period of years. The desire for single family
homes will likely continue even though the Vision Dixie Plan calls for a mixed use type
of development with higher density interspersed with single family and commercial
development. The lack of septic tanks in Diamond Valley has slowed development here
for some time. With recent State Department of Environmental Quality approval, new
methods of waste disposal are now available as an alternative to septic tanks. The use of
one of their methods for new development could significantly change the number of new
permits that could be issued in coming years.

It should be noted that the number of permits has been relatively low for the past
several years. Reflecting the slow National economy which has also affected the growth
and development in Washington County.

There are several hundred lots that have been preliminarily proposed to the county by
developers who are interested in the Diamond Valley area. How the economy rebounds
will determine how quickly some of these developments might take place.

                                       Table IV
                             Projected Population Growth

                      Year Number of New Dwellings          Population

                      2011                            5               965
                      2012                            6               983
                      2013                           10             1,013
                      2014                           10             1,043
                      2015                           10             1,073
                      2016                           12             1,049
                      2017                           14             1,091
                      2018                           17             1,142
                      2019                           20             1,202
                      2020                           25             1,277

Without more accurate current population figures, and by trying to project future rates of
growth, the above figures are but a rough estimate of future population growth in
Diamond Valley. These figures should be reviewed regularly and corrected based on
current and more accurate figures.

Vision Dixie Principle Summary:

Along with recommendations for residential growth and future development in Diamond
Valley, along with other types of development such as commercial growth, the Vision
Dixie Project, which was sponsored by Washington County, and which was adopted by
the county upon its completion, makes recommendations for many other phases of
community development. A summary of the Vision Dixie Principles and their
relationship to Diamond Valley is shown as follows:



                                            7
1.    Plan regionally; implement locally - The General Plan for Diamond Valley is a local
      Plan for Diamond Valley, and is a part of the General Plan for the county.

2.    Maintain air and water quality, and conserve water - Air and water quality is very
      good in Diamond Valley. Most outside landscaping in the valley is minimal. Most
      of the lots are covered with native plant materials except for a small area of
      landscaping immediately around the dwelling unit. Conservation of water in
      Diamond Valley is important to the residents of this part of the county.

3.    Guard our signature landscapes - see the section of this plan relative to open space
      development.

4     Provide rich, connected natural recreation areas and open space - also covered in
      the report dealing with open space, and recreation development in the community.

5.    Build a balanced transportation system - The county has developed a county-wide
      transportation plan. See section III of the General Plan for information dealing
      with transportation in Washington County. See also the road section of this
      community Plan.

6.    Get centered by focusing on growth in walkable-mixed use centers. Mixed use
      centers are difficult to develop based on the current pattern and the limited use of
      any mixed use projects based on the limitations caused by septic effluent.
      commercial development areas may be identified on the General Plan map,
      economic potential will be weighed by a commercial business prior to making a
      decision to bring a business to Diamond Valley.

7.    Direct growth inward - Diamond Valley was developed as a compact subdivision
      development. There has been some scattered development on the low hills east of
      the main development, but, for most part, growth expansion has, up to this point,
      been controlled. Future development should be done by moving outward, not by
      leap-frogging outward and then filling back in to the valley.

8.     Provide a broad range of housing types - this has been discussed previously. A
       broad range of housing types is not possible without of installing a waste disposal
       system.

9.     Reserve areas for industry - this is discussed in the following section dealing with
       industrial development. There is little potential for industrial development in
       Diamond Valley.

10.    Public land conversion - No conversion is proposed or needed for proper build-
       out or growth of Diamond Valley.




                                              8
Commercial Development:

Commercial development is non-existent in Diamond Valley, except for some home
occupations of a commercial nature. Home occupations will probably continue to grow
as the area expands. In some of the other "bedroom" communities in the county, home
occupations make up a significant element in those communities.

One goal of the Vision Dixie Project is to try to make communities as sustainable as
possible. This means that residents should be able to find work where they live, and that
circulation through the community might be better accomplished with walking and bike
paths as opposed to automobiles. In light of the Vision Dixie policies, the General Plan
has attempted to identify an area where convenience commercial services in Diamond
Valley could be located in an effort to reduce Highway 18 traffic traveling to St. George
or Veyo for incidental commercial needs.

Highway commercial development is not recommended by the General Plan. There is no
benefit to Diamond Valley in trying to stop traffic on Highway 18 to spend money in
Diamond Valley. Any commercial development should be for the use and benefit of the
residents of the valley without regard to whether or not anyone from outside the valley
stops here. Whether or not commercial business comes to Diamond Valley depends more
upon economic decisions, than it does a future land planning recommendation.

Industrial Development:

It is difficult to attract industrial or manufacturing business to an area without ready
access to an interstate freeway. The likelihood of bringing industrial development to
Diamond Valley would appear to be very unlikely.

Existing industrial development consists of the extraction of cinders at the cinder cone,
and the minimal amount of decorate rock removed for decorative purposes. Even though
the area of land covered by cinders is included within the total land use, only one portion
of the cinder pit is used for cinder extraction. A portion of the cinder pit is within Snow
Canyon State Park, and will not be developed industrially by the State Park.

Public Services:

A section on public services as they relate county-wide is found at the beginning of this
section, Section VII, of the General Plan. Some comments are re-stated herein as they
might relate specifically to the community of Diamond Valley.

Electricity:

Electric service in Diamond Valley is provided by the Rocky Mountain Power Company.
A few years ago a new electric sub-station was constructed about mid-way between
Diamond Valley and Dammeron Valley. With the completion of this sub-station, the



                                             9
power company is better able to serve this area of the county. The same power company
is also moving toward an increase of capacity between the sub-station at Sigurd, Utah,
and the sub-station located adjacent to Dixie Deer Estates in Washington County. With
the completion of this additional transmission line, Diamond Valley should be provided
with sufficient electrical power to provide for all future growth that might take place for
many years to come.

Natural Gas:

A number of years ago, the Questar Gas Company installed a natural gas line from a
point near the town of Central parallel to Highway 18, and running toward the St. George
valley. The installation of this line made natural gas available to all of the communities
along the way, including Veyo, Winchester Hills, Diamond Valley, and Dammeron
Valley. This line was inter-connected with the line serving the St. George Valley from
the Interstate Freeway line, giving service to most of the county from either direction.
This supply of natural gas should be sufficient to serve all of the communities presently
connected to the system for both current demand and for future growth.

Water:

Water in Diamond Valley is currently provided by the Diamond Valley Water Company.
This is a mutual water company owned and operated by the residents of Diamond Valley.
There may also be other water sources in the valley that are privately owned. The supply
of water owned by the water company is projected to be adequate to serve all of the
recorded building lots in the valley, as well as such things s the school, park, fire station,
church, etc.

The Washington County Water Conservancy District provides supplementary water to
many parts of the county as well s to many of the incorporated cities and towns. The
District has indicated that that they are willing to provide additional water to the
Diamond Valley area as development continues to take place. This source of water
should provide a stable water source to Diamond Valley well into the future.

Sewage Disposal:

Presently, liquid waste is disposed of by means of individual septic tanks. These have
been approved for all of the platted lots in Diamond Valley, as well as some lots not
within regularly platted subdivisions. This system has seemed to serve the valley well up
to this point. However, based upon a ground water study performed by Hansen, Allen,
and Luce, Engineers, in 1998, their study indicated that most of Diamond Valley is
located on the Navajo Sandstone formation, which is the formation from which most of
the ground water serving southern Washington County is found. Further, based upon
their report, if each currently platted and recorded lot in Diamond Valley was occupied
with a home, the valley would exceed their recommended density for septic tanks. As a
result, of this study, development of additional subdivision lots has been limited for some
time.



                                             10
More recently, a number of alternate on-site waste disposal systems have been approved
by the State Department of Environmental Quality, and are now being approved for use
in various areas of Utah. Some developers are looking at these methods as a means of
eliminating the possibility of ground water pollution, and are actively considering such
methods to allow further subdivision of the land in Diamond Valley.

Washington County has contracted with the Water Conservancy District to oversee
sewage disposal in the western part of the county. As an unincorporated part of the
county, Diamond Valley is under the supervision of the Water District to oversee sewage
disposal.

Should Diamond Valley determine at some point to incorporate, another consideration for
the community would be to petition the City of St. George to connect to the St. George
sewer system which currently serves Ivins, Santa Clara, and Washington City, in addition
to the City of St. George. Outfall lines already extend to the southerly end of Winchester
Hills, which could make connection to this system preferable to the installation of one or
more on-site treatment plants in the community. Dammeron Valley is interested in
incorporation for the very purpose of connecting to the St. George sewer system. If both
of these areas were to make a joint application to St. George City, it could reduce the cost
to install an outfall line to serve both areas at the same time.

Roads:

Road maintenance in the community of Diamond Valley is currently provided by the
Washington County Road Department. There is a combination of roadway types
presently existing in the valley. Not all of the roads are dedicated roadways. Many of
the lesser improved roads are considered to be roads by right of use. In other words, the
road has been there for many, many, years, and has been used by the public to travel to
and from certain areas of the county. In the county, the state classifies roads as class "B"
roads.

Financing for maintenance of county roads comes from the Utah Department of
Transportation through a funding formula that allows different amounts of maintenance
money for different types of roads. Dirt roads receive the least amount of funding, paved
roads receive the most. There are approximately twenty-five miles of roads in Diamond
Valley. The actual amount of funding is set by the state and is adjusted annually. It tends
to fluctuate from year to year. Road maintenance funds come from user fees derived
from the gasoline tax, which somewhat depends on how many miles a person drives and
how much gasoline they use.

It has long been the policy of the county to maintain roads essentially in the condition in
which they were created. If property owners in a given area want to have their roads
improved to a higher standard, the position of the county would be that when the owners
of an area bring their roads up to a higher standard, the county will then maintain them at
the new standard. This is sometimes done through an improvement district that spreads



                                             11
the cost of improvement over a period of usually ten years, instead of a one time payment
up front from the property owner.

Under the Washington County Land Bill adopted by Congress in April, 2009, and signed
by the President, the Bureau of Land Management is required to identify a route for an
east-west right-of-way for the future construction of a major route for a right-of-way for
the construction of a major collector roadway. The General Plan for the county has
identified four alternatives for possible consideration which may, or may not, be the same
as those routes identified by the BLM.

One of the potential future routes passes through the habitat conservation area from Mile
Post 13 in Washington City and connects with Highway 18 at the intersection with Snow
Canyon Parkway. Two other routes begin in the Ledges area of St. George City with one
route turning north on the Cottonwood road and then eastward towards Leeds, the other
turning south on the Cottonwood road and connecting to Mile Post 13 in Washington
City. The last of these four alternatives begins in Diamond Valley and goes eastward to
Leeds staying completely north of the habitat plan area.

The likelihood of any of these routes being constructed is probably many years away.
The congressional bill requires that the BLM consult with the county and the City of St.
George in making a decision on any route. Once that decision is made, the county will
amend their transportation map to adopt the agreed upon route. This decision will not be
made for two or three years into the future.

Fire Protection:

Fire protection in Diamond Valley is provided by the South Western (SWSSD) Special
Service District. This service is expected to remain much the same as it currently is for
the foreseeable future. A new fire station has recently been constructed in the Diamond
Valley area to better serve the residents of the valley. The department is made up
primarily of volunteer firemen from within the community.

Public Safety:

Police protection is provided is provided by the Washington County Sheriff's office. This
service will continue as long as Diamond Valley continues as an unincorporated part of
Washington County. This method of police protection would also continue if Diamond
Valley was incorporated until such time as the town created their own law enforcement
department. Some communities have contracted with the county to increase the amount
of sheriff's visibility in their community through a specific contract calling for more
sheriff's protection in exchange for additional funds being raised by the community.

Solid Waste:

A Solid Waste Board made up of one representative from each city or town, along with
one member of the county, oversee the collection of solid waste in the county. This board



                                            12
contracts with a private company to provide the collection of waste in the county. There
is a central land fill location which is owned by Washington County and managed by the
solid waste company. That site is expected to be sufficient for many years to come. This
system of management and oversight is also expected to continue

Building Inspection:

Building inspection of new construction in Diamond Valley is provided by the county
building department. The cost of a permit in the county is presently about $2,000.00 for
an "average" home. The cost of a permit is established to pay for the cost of the service
provided and is not intended be subsidized by residents of the county in general. The
county has no significant impact fees outside of the fee for the preservation of the Desert
Tortoise which fee is collected county wide. Some incorporated communities also
contract with the county to provide building inspection services,

Communication:

Most of Washington is served by the CenturyLink communication company. In addition
to CenturyLink services there are a number of private cellular companies providing
service within the county. Except for the possibly of a cellular tower somewhere in
Diamond Valley, it would appear that communication services are sufficient for the
present time. There are communication services provided through cable television and
computer companies and from satellite communications.

Flood Control:

Because of the closed nature of Diamond Valley, flooding has, over the years, been a
problem in many parts of the valley. The county has completed a flood control plan to
determine the projected amount of runoff that could occur at any given time. The county
has agreed to work with the community, over a period of time, as funding can be
identified, to implement the engineering plan. This could include the installation of
storm drains, or other measures, to help alleviate the flooding problem. This has been an
ongoing problem for many years with which the county will continue to be involved.

Annexation/Incorporation:

Some years ago, the Diamond Valley area gave some serious thought to possible
incorporation. Incorporation as a stand along town is still an option that the community
is able to consider at any time. Should that issue arise in the future, this General Plan
would provide a basis, with some additions, to completing an updated feasibility study
for the community to consider relative to annexation.

Incorporation into St. George City is always another option to consider. Since the
annexation of the Ledges area into the City, it would be possible for Diamond Valley to
annex to St. George City and still leave the Winchester Hills area out of the city.
Dammeron Valley to the north has also discussed the possibility of incorporation. One of



                                            13
the current reasons for that consideration is that if either community, or both of them,
were to incorporate, St. George City has indicated they would be favorable to extending
the current sewer line to serve either or both of these communities. In order for any
significant growth to occur in either valley, either a sewer line would need to be extended
to serve the community, or a self contained package plant would have to be constructed
by each individual area. An outfall line may be less expensive than a self contained
plant.

The county would support such a decision by either of these communities. The decision
is a local decision to be made by the residents of each area. It is not a county decision
and the county will continue to support each area as an unincorporated part of the county.




                                            14
          WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY SURVEY ANALYSIS
                              FOR
                THE COMMUNITY OF DIAMOND VALLEY
                            2010-2011

On August 31, 2010, staff members of the County Planning Department met with citizens
of the community of Diamond Valley at the Diamond Valley Water Company Building.
The Diamond Valley Land Use Map was reviewed with the individuals present.

Because of the small number of citizens that attended the meeting, a statistical analysis of
the results of the questionnaires filled out at the meeting and received since the meeting
would not be of significant value. However, following is a summary of the questions and
comments that have been responded to by residents of Diamond Valley.

The length of time that the comments of the community members had lived in the
community averaged about eight years. The family size was slightly higher than the
county average at about 4 years.

All of the respondents were home owners as it can be expected that most of the home
owners in Diamond Valley are owners of the homes that they live in.

There is a small amount of agricultural land in the valley. This includes land that was
formerly devoted to a sod farm, and which has since been converted to growing alfalfa.

A large number of reasons were given for living in Diamond Valley. These included
such things as living close to the mountains, National forest, and the National Park and
State Parks. Other reasons include having opens pace, the opportunity to have livestock
animals and poultry, a quiet community, recreational opportunities, a safe environment,
ability to watch wildlife, a dark night sky, and clean air. It is easy to see why residents
like living here in this community.

The character of the community should be preserved. Some methods for doing so
include having proper zoning ordinances in place, not extending water or sewer lines into
new undeveloped areas, or into areas where development would not be appropriate. All
existing farm land should be preserved and protected for as long as the owners choose to
continue with agricultural pursuits.

The development of walking / bicycle trails and routes should be identified and
developed, in connection with the BLM and the Forest Service where appropriate.

There is concern about the use of off-road vehicles on the roads of the community. Not
too much concern about speeding on public streets, some need for continued road
maintenance, high concern about unlawful / unsafe use of OHV riders. Proliferation of
OHV routes through and around the community is a high concern.




                                             15
There is presently very little commercial business in Diamond Valley, outside of some
home occupations that are licensed by the county. More commercial or industrial
development may be good for the county, but not recommended for location in the
Diamond Valley community area.

Public services received generally high to good ratings with areas such as law
enforcement. Cell phone services, and adequate notification of residents of meetings,
etc., are areas that are in need of improvement.

Diamond Valley has a very well developed recreation park in the community. Further
recreation development would be desirable. Other facilities that have been recommended
for consideration include such things as an expanded trail system connected to other
areas, water trails development where appropriate in the county, and a community
equestrian center that could keep and maintain horses.

The best way to notify residents of meetings and activities affecting the community could
be done by posting notices with large print at post office box locations, and by creating
an E-mail list of residents who could be contacted relative to upcoming meetings, etc.

Many citizens participated in the Vision Dixie project which recommends that the county
follow through with Vision Dixie principles in preparing plans for the various areas in the
county.

Other comments that were made include:

   •   Avoid any roadways through the Red Cliffs Desert Reserve, which has now been
       placed in a National Conservation Area by action of Congress.
   •   Safeguard the "Golden Goose" that is Diamond Valley, the incredible scenery,
       clean air, diverse recreational opportunities, and abundant open space and
       wildlife.
   •   Drainage problems still need to be resolved. A time line and commitment need to
       be agreed upon with the community to finish the flood control project.
   •   Some approved culverts still need to be installed




                                            16
