        AN ADDENDUM
               TO
     THE GENERAL PLAN
              FOR
THE NEW HARMONY VALLEY AREA
           2010 - 2011




            Prepared by
       The Washington County
        Planning Department
                                   An addendum
                                        To
                            The New Harmony Valley Area
                                   General Plan
                                    2010 - 2011

INTRODUCTION

(Add to the end of the first paragraph)

This latest update, adopted in 2011, comes during an economic downturn in the economy
during which growth and development in the county has been significantly reduced.
Therefore, the transition from agricultural to residential development has been very
minimal for the past 5 or more years. The transition may increase again in the future, but
with the size of the valley, will not change the rural character of the area for many years
to come.


Open space areas

(Additional policy)

   •   Work with the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT), owner of the land
       surrounding the Black Ridge Reservoir, and the irrigation company who controls
       the water rights, to find a means to stabilize the elevation of the reservoir to
       protect "Old Highway 91" along the south side of the reservoir to guarantee the
       use of this roadway during all weather and run-off conditions. Without this policy
       the county cannot continue to maintain this section of roadway.

   •   (Extend this policy) Such a study might include consideration for development of
       parks, riding trails, hiking and walking trails, etc. that have been identified in the
       2010 citizen questionnaire as being desirable to develop in the New Harmony
       Valley area. (Repeat this policy under the section relating to recreation)

Residential Development

(Amend the following policy)
   • The zoning ordinance should be used to determine housing densities in different
     areas with an overall valley density of 5 acres per dwelling unit. Specific
     developments should not have a density of less than 2-1/2 acres per dwelling unit
     within the overall 5 acre density for all areas using septic tanks for waste disposal.

       (New policy to be added at the end of the residential section)
   •   Cluster and higher density development should only be approved in areas where
       package plant type waste disposal facilities have been established.
Commercial development

(Add the following to the last commercial policy)
   • Consider other convenience commercial uses only as an integrated part of the
       overall development plan for large-scale residential developments, and as a means
       of meeting the provisions of the Vision Dixie Plan to make commercial areas as
       convenient to the majority of residents as possible.

Public Services

(Add a new policy at the end of this section)
   • Review the public services identified in the citizen questionnaire, and work with
       the providers of these services to improve the quality and amount of service
       where the questionnaire identified services that where considered to be less than
       the citizens desire to have.

(Add another new section as follows)
   • In the area of public safety, police protection is provided by the Washington
       County Sheriff's Office. This service will continue as long as the valley continues
       to be an unincorporated part of the county. Some areas in the county who desire a
       greater presence of officers, have contracted with the county for an increased
       visibility of officers in exchange for additional funds being contributed by the
       area involved.

(Another new policy under public services)
Road maintenance and improvement has been identified as a major concern of residents
in the valley. The following policies should be added to this section of the General Plan.)

   •   The General Plan encourages the development of frontage roads on both sides of
       the Interstate 15 Freeway. Contact should be made with the Congressional
       delegation from Utah to encourage them to submit a bill before Congress to allow
       the construction of the east side frontage road. If approved by Congress, then
       UDOT should be contacted to provide funding for the improvement of this section
       of roadway between the two freeway interchanges.
   •   On the westerly side of the freeway, the General Plan recommends that contact be
       made with the arm of the LDS Church that is managing the land in the New
       Harmony area to encourage approval of the frontage road on this side of the
       freeway. If approval is granted, UDOT should be contacted relative to the
       financing of a frontage road connecting the two interchanges together.
   •   The General Plan recommends that contact be made with the LDS Church relative
       to opening up the roadway between New Harmony Town and the Kolob freeway
       interchange, and determine what would be required to allow it to become a county
       road, and to be improved to a higher standard than presently exists. The road
       running south from the library should be extended to connect to the road from the
       town of New Harmony to the freeway interchange at the Kolob area.
   •   Residents living in any of the various subdivisions in the New Harmony valley
       area should discuss the needs of their specific subdivision relative to further road
       improvements. If significant interest exists to upgrade the condition of any of
       these roads, the General Plan recommends that contact be made with the county to
       determine cost estimates, etc., relative to roadway improvements. The General
       Plan recommends that consideration be given to creating improvement districts to
       ease the cost of improvements to individual home owners.

(A new section should be added to the General Plan relative to a review of the Vision
Dixie Plan recommendations. This plan had not been undertaken at the time of the
current General Plan document.)

Vision Dixie Plan:

A number of the residents of the New Harmony valley participated in the Vision Dixie
Plan that was undertaken buy the county a few years ago. The outgrowth of the study
and the recommendations by the committee charged with reviewing the material
collected was a series of guidelines and policies aimed at guiding future growth in the
county. The summary of the Vision Dixie Study, adopted by the county and most of the
incorporated cities and towns is summarized for the residents of the New Harmony valley
area by summary of the policies adopted in the Plan and relating them to this area.

Policies:

   •   Plan regionally, implement locally - The General Plan for the New Harmony
       Valley area is a locally prepared plan for this area of the county only, and is a part
       of the overall county General Plan. It deals with aspects of the future of the
       valley and may be amended from time to time as necessary, dealing with the
       concerns of the residents of this valley and not related to the county at large.
   •   Maintain air and water quality, and conserve water - This valley has a high
       standard of air quality. The low population density and the separation of this area
       from other more urban areas help to maintain good air quality. Water
       conservation has always been necessary because of a limited amount of water
       available in most of the subdivisions in the valley.
   •   Guard our Signature Landscapes - The surrounding hillsides of this valley are
       maintained in an open space category on public land. With theVision Dixie
       Principles in place, it can be expected that the surrounding view sheds on the
       public land will be protected.
   •   Provide connected natural recreation areas and open spaces - The surrounding
       public land areas provide considerable natural recreation areas. The Pine Valley
       Wilderness Area is adjacent to the valley on the west as part of the Pine Valley
       Mountains. The valley is surrounded by connected public lands including the
       National Forest, the Bureau of Land Management, and Zion National Park. These
       areas are all connected.
   •   Build a balanced transportation system -       There are no public transportation
       systems available to the residents of the New Harmony Valley. Contact with the
    public transportation bus systems may be able to arrange for a stop at the New
    Harmony interchange, or for the St. George Shuttle to stop at this interchange
    when residents have reservations to travel to areas in northern Utah.
•   Get centered by focusing on growth in walk-able mixed use centers - The New
    Harmony Valley is a large geographic area. Because it was developed outside of
    the Vision Dixie Plan, the various developments are spread out with significant
    open space areas between them. Over time, some of these areas will fill in
    making some degree of walking useful in parts of the valley. At this time, a
    unified transportation system connecting each of these areas together is probably
    more important than to connect each of the various subdivisions by walking trails.
    The New Harmony Valley fits the Vision Dixie Plan in providing satellite
    commercial centers throughout the county. A location within this valley would
    meet the criteria for a satellite commercial center.
•   Direct growth inward -           Currently, most of the residential development is
    located in the "four corners" of the valley. The only direction for growth to take
    place in the future will be by infill into the central parts of the valley. This will
    happen when the major property owner submits plans for further residential
    development.
•   Provide a wide-range of housing types -          This policy works well in the
    urbanized area of the county where sewer systems are available. It does not work
    well in the unincorporated areas of the county where sewer service is not
    available. It is very difficult to provide mixed use or a high density development
    using septic tanks.
•   Reserve areas for industry - Industrial development could exist in the New
    Harmony valley. However, he current freeway interchanges have developed
    primarily in a residential character. If industrial development should come to the
    valley, areas would need to be identified where freeway access is readily available
    without the need to travel through existing residential areas, or areas far from the
    freeway.
•   Public land conversion -         The valley is surrounded by public land. None of
    this land is identified as being necessary for the future development of the valley.

Annexation and incorporation:

(New policy to add at the end of the current policy section)
   • The county feels that the form of government that is closest to the people is
      the best form of government. The county does not oppose the incorporation
      of a community. The county does not promote incorporation of an area nor
      does it oppose such incorporation. The county will lend support to whatever
      decision the area might make.
   • Any desire of the residents of the New Harmony Valley to become a part of
      Iron County would need to make contact with the legislators from the two
      counties in order to have a bill submitted to the legislature for consideration.
      The approval of a change in the boundary of a county must be approved by
      the State Legislature and the Governor. The local commissioners in both of
the counties would need to be in agreement with a change before it would
likely gain any traction with the legislature.
                            NEW HARMONY VALLEY
                              STATISCIAL DATA

Some statistical data for the New Harmony Valley has been updated since the last update
of the General Plan. The following data is included in this update:

Subdivisions:

       Blackridge Ranches (Phases)         233 lots       1,470 acres
       Doug Thorley                         15              421
       Flint Ridge                           1                2
       Fort Harmony                          6               19
       Harmony Heights (Phases)             74              240
       Kolob Ranches                       157              709
       New Harmony Farms                   128              696
       North Canyon (Phases)                 4               40
       North Valley Ranches (Phases)        22              257
       Prince Subdivision                    4               80
                            Total Lots:    644            3.934 acres

Current Total Dwelling Units:              350              294 vacant lots

New of permits over the past 10 years      193

Estimated 10 year population increase using NH Valley family size:       480 persons
Estimated 10 year population increase using county family size:          580 persons

Estimated 2011 population using New Harmony Valley family average: 875 persons
Estimated 2011 population using Washington County family average: 1,050 persons

10 year projection using the number of permits for the past
       10 years extended for the next 10 years: Total Dwellings           543
       Using New Harmony family size average: Population                1,358
       Using county family size average:            Population          1,630
         WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY SURVEY ANALYSIS
                             FOR
                THE NEW HARMONY VALLEY AREA
                           2010-2011

At a meeting in the New Harmony valley in the summer of 2010, it was indicated that the
county was going to update the General Plan of the New Harmony Valley. A
questionnaire was filled out and has been tabulated by the county. Following is a brief
analysis of the information from the questionnaire.

After reviewing the material in the questionnaire it became very apparent that there is a
certain amount of misunderstanding relative to several issues facing this valley and the
other unincorporated areas in the county. These issues are discussed as follows:

1.     I-15 frontage roads:

       On the east side of I-15 at the New Harmony exit there is a small subdivision
       located there. The main north-south road in the subdivision dead ends at the
       southern end of the subdivision. The property from this point to the Kolob
       Canyon interchange is owned by the National Park Service. Many years ago, they
       were approached, through the Park Superintendent, about the possibility of
       opening a road through the National Park to connect the road on the north with
       the interchange to the south. The county found out that would require an act of
       Congress to authorize a road to be opened up through the National Park. As a
       result, it never happened.

       Depending upon the makeup the Presidency and Congress following the 2012
       election, it may be possible to have the Congressional Representative from this
       area to propose a bill in congress to allow such a road to be constructed.

       On the westerly side of 1-15 along the west side of the land that was once owned
       by Mr. Anderson, there is a 50' right-of-way across this land. South of that
       property the land is owned by the LDS Church. There is another parcel of private
       property between the LDS land and the Kolob Canyon Interchange.

2.     Connection between Kolob Canyon Interchange and New Harmony Town:

       Some years ago the LDS Church, the majority land owner on the New Harmony
       Bench, started developing their property, primarily areas fronting the county road
       between the I-15 freeway and the Town of New Harmony. At that time, the
       church and the county were very close to being able to open the road through the
       LDS Church land. When the decision was made by the church to return to
       livestock production and to cancel development for a time, they did not favor
       opening the road because of the problems it would create for grazing livestock in
     the area of the roadway. At such time as they once again begin developing, that
     road should be able to be opened and used.

     The road itself is not a main highway. It is however an existing roadway and is
     very easy to travel in an automobile. While not being a high speed highway and a
     straight road such as the road from I-15 to New Harmony Town, it is a good road,
     readily passable, and a very scenic drive between the two areas. The county is not
     prepared to condemn the property, fence the entire right-of-way, and improve the
     road condition by paving it.

     This will happen at some future time, but it will be determined by the future
     decision of the LDS Church. In addition, the road going south from the county
     library should be extended across the Church land and tie into the New Harmony
     to the Kolob interchange road.

3.   Road improvements:

     In Washington County roads are improved and maintained in two ways. One way
     is for the improvements to be installed at the time the subdivision is approved by
     the county. The county standards have changed many times over past years.
     At one time, no specific improvements were required. A developer could tell the
     county that no one wanted paved roads and therefore the roads were not paved.
     This worked well until the first home was built and the cars going by created dust.
     Then the homeowner wished that the roads were paved. Homeowners did not pay
     for paved roads when they bought their lots. They actually paid for the amount of
     road improvement that is in the subdivision in which they live.

     Washington County does not use property taxes for road maintenance. The
     county receives money each year from the State of Utah that is collected in the
     form of gasoline tax. This amount changes each year and forms the basis for
     maintenance of all county roads. Last year, the General Fund or Washington
     County received approximately five cents for every dollar of taxes paid. This
     represents the lowest general fund tax of all twenty-nine counties in the State.

     The position of the county for several decades has been to maintain the county
     roads in the same condition as they are in at the time the subdivision plats are
     recorded. It is not uncommon for residents in subdivision in the county to desire
     to have their roads paved or otherwise improved. The county is willing to create
     special improvement districts to improve roads in any area where the residents
     would like them improved. By creating an improvement district, the cost of the
     improvement can be spread over a period of time, usually about ten years. This
     method of improvement is available if the residents are in favor of doing so.
     Otherwise, the county will continue to maintain the roads in the condition they
     were in at the time of subdivision approval.
     Roads with "borrow ditches" along each side have become a major maintenance
     problem in the county. It would require to men, a dump truck, and a back hoe to
     work full time to maintain all of the culverts crossing borrow ditches into
     individual lots to keep them cleaned out and working. Further, property owners
     frequently landscape their lots out to the edge of the travel way by placing large
     rocks, etc, in the county right-of-way. These objects create a significant problem
     for the county to remove materials that may cause traffic problems. It is easier to
     maintain curb and gutter.

Residency and family size:

The average resident in the New Harmony Valley has lived here approximately ten
years. The interesting thing is to notice the average family size which is about 2.5
residents per dwelling. The county average is out 3 residents per family. This lower
number would tend to indicate that there are many seasonal residents in the area and
many retired residents who live here either part time of full time.

Reasons for living in the New Harmony valley:

There were a number of reasons given for living in this area. The highest number
mentioned were being close to the mountains, or liking the open space of the area. A
quiet community was also rated high as a reason for living in this valley. It is also
considered to be a safe community.

Should the rural character be preserved?

Over 90 % of those responding to the questionnaire would like to preserve the rural
atmosphere. Many reasons were given as suggestions as to how to maintain these
qualities that are strongly supported by residents. Their suggestions include some of
the following: Maintain low density housing, limit sales of agricultural land, limit
commercial development, limit new roads, have no street lights, enforce CC& R's, no
street paving, designate high density areas, don't allow lot splits, no new subdivisions,
county to buy conservations easements, lock the freeway entrances, leave things alone,
no windmills.

Some of these suggestions may be good suggestions for the future of the valley, but
have little to do with maintaining the rural character. Large lot sizes will work. The
county has no way to limit the sale of agricultural land or whether someone continues
to farm or not. The county does not currently require street lights in new subdivisions.
The county does not enforce conditions, covenants and restrictions (CC& R's). It is the
responsibility of individual home owners, or associations to enforce this type of
restriction.

Conservation easements are a good way to preserve various types of open space land.
However the county does not have tax money to spend buying such rights. There are
various entities that do purchase conservation easements that residents of the area could
look into. The county has been a recipient of the purchase of conservation easements.
Locking the freeway exits may be a good way to keep new residents out, but it may
make it hard for residents to come and go as they would like.

Should farm land be preserved?

Over 97 % of the residents filling out questionnaires were in favor of preserving the
farm land in the valley. Comments on the county buying development rights were
discussed in the previous section relating to maintaining the rural character of the
valley. Whether or not to work with SUU (Southern Utah University) or FFA (Future
Farmers of America) are decisions that would need to be left up to existing farmers to
decide. There are presently methods of protecting agricultural land including the Green
Belt legislation which protects the farmer from increases in land value until such time
as the land is sold. There is also legislation for Farmland Protection to allow farmers to
continue farming when neighbors may be upset with some farming practices.

Walking and bicycle trails:

A majority of those filling out the questionnaires were in favor of developing bicycle
and walking trails in the valley. There was also interest in including equestrian
(horseback riding) as a part of any such trails that might be developed. However a
significant number of people also were not in favor of trails and indicated that the
present road system was adequate for these purposes.

Concerns about traffic safety, street and road conditions, unsafe OHV use, and street
dedication:

There was not any particular concern raised about the use of OHV use. Speed was
indicated as a concern by about 1/3 of the respondents. Road conditions were discussed
at the beginning of this analysis. Unsafe OHV use does not appear to be a serious
problem in the area. Some concern was raised about road dedication. None of these
issues, except concerns about roads, was raised to a serious concern level.

Desired commercial or industrial business:

Almost half of the respondents to the questionnaire indicated that there was no place in
the valley for further commercial or industrial development. On the other hand, about
the same number indicated the types of commercial development that they felt would
be of benefit to the area. These things are listed in the statistical survey under # 7 of
that document. At least one respondent indicated, with a good sense of humor, that any
commercial development should be located in Enterprise, Central, or Veyo.

Public Services:

A number of public services in the valley were identified with a response as to concerns
that may exist with the various services provided.
Several services received high ratings. These services include drinking water quality
and service, garbage collection, and postal service. Moderate and acceptable ratings
were given to services including electric power, and fire protection. Receiving the
lowest ratings were services such as law enforcement, school transportation, telephone
and cellular service. It should be noted however, that ambulance service and school
transportation had a high rating of those who expressed little or no experience with the
services. In other words, they had not used ambulance service and had no children
riding a school bus.

In addition to the services listed in the questionnaire, there were several services
mentioned that were provided but which could be improved. These included internet
service, better fire prevention, snow removal and new power and telephone lines.

Should the area provide recreation facilities?

The majority of respondents by a slim margin indicated No, slightly less than half of
those responding indicated yes and then went on to list a number of different facilities
that they would like to see in this area.

How to best inform residents of public meetings:

The first choice is by listing meetings at the mail boxes. Posting on the county web
site was also highly supported. Other sources suggested include including meetings in
the local valley news letter which would be a very good suggestion, at the church,
library, and by direct mail. Direct mail is probably not an option for the county to use
simply because of the cost involved if this method was used on a county-wide basis.

Public Services:

A number of public services in the valley were identified with a response as to concerns
that may exist with the various services provided.

Several services received high ratings. These services include Drinking water quality
and service, garbage collection, and postal service. Moderate and acceptable ratings
were given to services including electric power, and fire protection. Receiving the
lowest ratings were services such as law enforcement, school transportation, telephone
and cellular service. It should be noted however, that ambulance service and school
transportation had a high rating of those who expressed little or no experience with the
services. In other words, they had not used ambulance service and had no children
riding a school bus.

In addition to the services listed in the questionnaire, there were several services
mentioned that were provided but which could be improved. These included internet
service, better fire prevention, snow removal and new power and telephone lines.
Should the area provide recreation facilities?

The majority of respondents by a slim margin indicated No, Slightly less than half of
those responding indicated yes and then went on to list a number of different facilities
that they would like to see in this area.

How to best inform residents of public meetings:

The first choice is by listing meetings at the mail boxes. Posting on the county web
site was also highly supported. Other sources suggested include including meetings in
the local valley news letter which would be a very good suggestion, at the church,
library, and by direct mail. Direct mail is probably not an option for the county to use
simply because of the cost involved if this method was used on a county-wide basis.

Regarding the Vision Dixie Planning Project, about 1/4 of the respondents indicated
that they attended the meeting held in this area. About twice this many residents did not
participate in the study. From those who did participate, a number of suggestions were
made in the statistical review of some things that they would like to see happen.

The final question in the questionnaire was to indicate any other things that should be
considered relative to the New Harmony Valley area. These are also listed in the
statistical summary. Some of these items have been discussed in this section of the
study. Others may be identified in the General Plan report.
       WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY STATISTICAL SURVEY
                             FOR
                THE NEW HARMONY VALLEY AREA
                          2010 - 1011

In the summer of 2010 a community meeting was held at the County Library building
regarding the development of a General Plan study for this unincorporated area of the
county. Attendees were asked to fill out a questionnaire relating to the current conditions
in the valley. Additional copies of the questionnaire could be submitted to the count
planning department either in hard copy or by the internet. Following is a summary of
the statistics received by the county and submitted to several different means.

1.     Residency:
       a.     How long have you lived in this area?             10 year average
       b.     Number in family:                                  2.5 member average
       c.     Homeowners:                                       94.80 %
       d.     Land owners only:                                  5.20 %

2.     Reasons for living in the New Harmony valley area:

       a.      Born or raised in the area                       10.2 %
       b.      Close to family, friends, or neighbors           25.6 %
       c.      Close to mountains, etc.                         94.8 %
       d.      Like open space                                  94.8 %
       e.      Opportunity to keep animals                      64.1 %
       f.      Quiet community                                  94.8 %
       g.      Recreation opportunities                         66.6 %
       h.      Safe community                                   74.3 %
       i.      Small town atmosphere                            87.1 %

3.     Should the rural atmosphere be preserved?

       Yes - 94.8 %                   No -   5.2 %
       How should it be done?

Maintain low density housing, limit sales of agricultural land, limit commercial
development, limit new roads, have no street lights, enforce CC & R's, county help with
building codes, have a minimum of 5 acre lots, no street paving, don't split lots, no
businesses near mixed lot sizes, no subdivisions, county to buy conservation easements,
designate high density areas, keep rural areas, lock freeway entrances, leave alone, have
large lots, no windmills

4.     Should farmland be preserved?

       Yes - 97.4 %                          No -       2.5 %
       How should it be preserved?

       Keep existing zoning/development regulations, county to buy development rights,
       require large lots, keep farming, leave it alone, preserve historic sites, stop
       commercial development, create incentives for agriculture, sell land only as now
       used, have permits required to subdivide, encourage crops, work with SUU and
       FFA, allow subdivision only if owner wants to subdivide, limit development

5.     Would you favor developing a system of walking/bicycle trails throughout the
       community?

       Yes:    61.5 %                        No:     41.0 %

6.      Mark on a scale of 1 to 5 your concerns on each of the following, traffic, safety,
street and road conditions, unsafe OHV use, and road dedication. 5 = most concerned, 1
= least concerned, 0 = no perceived problem.

       a.       Off highway vehicles on streets - 0 = 12.8 %, 5 = 12.8 %, 4 = 2.5 %,
               3 = 12.8 %, 2 = 20.5 %, 1 = 30.7 %
       b.      Speed and traffic control - 0 = 12.8 %, 5 = 30.7 %, 4 = 7.6 %, 3 = 5.1 %
               2 = 12.8 %, 1 = 12.8 %
       c.      Road conditions - 0 = 2.5 %, 5 = 46.2 %, 4 = 17.9 %, 3 = 15.3 %,
               2 = 2.5 %, 1 = 12.8 %
       d.      Unsafe OHV use - 0 = 5.1 %, 5 = 28.2 %, 4 = 5.1 %, 3 = 23.1 %,
               2 = 20.5 %, 1 = 12.8 %
       e.      Road dedication - 0 = 25.6 %, 5 = 20.5 %, 4 = 2.5 %. 3 = 7.6 %,
               2 = 15.4 %, 1 = 12.8 %
       f.      Other: Mow the roadsides, plow snow in town, have rules for OHV riders,
               have no street lights, keep noise levels low, control dust, connect the
               frontage roads between the interchanges, have two ways in and out of
               valley, none, move to cities, improve roads because we pay taxes, crown
               and ditch roads, don't pave everything, the dust and dirt on the roads is
               unhealthy

7.     Desired commercial or industrial business:

       None (43.5 % of those filling out questionnaire), a food market, a convenience
       market, a larger market at the Texaco market location, a mini mall, café, hardware
       store, a barber and beauty shop, auto repair garage, bed and breakfast inn, school,
       park, home occupations only, a fast food restaurant, a restaurant with good food,
       No business more than 1/2 mile from the freeway interchanges, no wind mill
       farms
8.     Where should commercial or industrial development be located?

       Close to I-15, next to the post office, Cedar City or St. George, or
       somewhere else, like Central, Veyo, or Enterprise, no big boxes, must be
       architecturally pleasing, single story, no signs or advertising, along the county
       road, in New Harmony, in Kanarraville

9.      Please rate on a scale of 1 - 5 your experience with the following local services as
they relate to the area. Excellent = 5, Poor = 1, 0 = no experience.

       a.      Ambulance - 0 = 23.1 %, 5 = 15.4 %, 4 = 25.6 %, 3 = 20.5 %,
               2 = 7.6 %, 1 = 2.5 %
       b.      Drinking water quality and service - 5 = 59.2 %, 4 = 15.4 %, 3 = 5.1 %
       c.      Electric power - 0 = 7.6 %, 5 = 35.9 %, 4 = 33.3 %, 3 = 7.6 %,
               2 = 2.5 %, 1 = 2.5 %
       d.      Fire protection - 0 = 2.5 %, 5 = 38.5 %, 4 = 35.9 %
       e.      Garbage collection - 0 = 5.1 %, 5 = 53.8 %, 4 = 35.9 %
       f.      Law enforcement - 0 = 12.8 %, 5 = 17.9 %, 4 = 17.9 %,
               3 = 20.5 %, 2 = 5.1 %, 1 = 5.1 %
       g.      Postal service - 0 = 2.5 %, 5 = 69.2 %, 4 = 17.9 %, 3 = 5.1 %,
       h.      School transportation - 0 = 41.0 %, 5 = 17.9 %, 4 = 23.1 %,
               3 = 5.1 %, 1 = 2.5 %
       i.      Telephone service - 0 = 15.3 %, 5 = 25.6 %, 4 = 28.2 %,
               3 = 12.8 %, 2 = 2.5 %, 1 = 10.2 %
       j.      Cellular service - 5 = 25.6 %, 4 = 25.6 %, 3 = 17.9 %, 2 = 10.3 %
               1 = 2.5 %
       k.      Other services:         Internet, better fire prevention, snow removal, new
               power and telephone lines, too many power outages

10.    Should the community consider providing recreation facilities?

       Yes - 43.6 %                            No - 51.3 %

11.    List services that could be provided:

       A town hall, gymnasium, not needed, a senior citizen facility, park, picnic area,
       walking, bicycle, and horse trails, Fort Harmony tourism, club house, sports
       fields, a community center, equestrian trails, open Mormon and stage coach trails,
       horse and fitness trails, fishery, an indoor exercise facility

12.    How can you best be informed about meetings?

       a.      Word of mouth                          48.7 %
       b.      Posting at the fire station            20.5 %
       c.      Posting at a store                     17.9 %
       d.      At the mail boxes                      74.4 %
      e.     County web site                     69.2 %
      f.     Other:        Valley news letter, E-mail, church, library, direct mail

13.   Did you participate in the Vision Dixie Planning program?

      Yes - 28.2 %                           No -   48.7 %

14.   If you participated - your comments:

      Need for good communication especially with the county, the need to connect
      roadways, an elementary school, keep the open space and rural setting, designate
      high density areas, we need more young families, listen and act, maintain the old
      highway by the reservoir, no curb and gutter on lots over one acre, post on
      property

15.   Final comments:

      Communicate with people more, preserve rural and remote areas, use existing
      groups to help with planning, a horse arena, make more use of the county arena,
      we need a zip code, incorporate, provide information on solar and wind power,
      create horse trails, join Iron county, name streets
