            The General Plan
                  For
        The Community of Gunlock
               2010-2011

A part of the Washington County General Plan
                    2010




                Prepared by
           The Washington County
            Planning Department
                 THE GUNLOCK COMMUNITY GENERAL PLAN
                              2010 - 2011

Introduction:

Gunlock is an unincorporated part of Washington County. Residents and others should
take time to review Section I of the County General Plan which discusses planning in
general, the basis for planning, and the purpose of planning. Many of the things
mentioned in the beginning of Section VII are also relevant to residents of this part of the
county. The General Plan provides guidelines for the future for this particular part of the
county in addition to those things that are applied county wide in the other sections of the
General Plan.

The Gunlock community is among the older communities in Washington County. In
order to understand the background and history of this community, the General Plan
quotes a paragraph or two from the History of Washington County put together in 1996
by Douglas D. Alder and Karl Brooks as follows:

"Some settlements were outgrowths of the initial ones. The land was limited at Santa
Clara and the young, newly arrived settlers were capable of ranging widely in search of
forage and timber. Jacob Hamblin's brother William, nicknamed "Gunlock", soon found
a location not unlike Santa Clara a few miles up river, directly on the Old Spanish 'Trail.
There in a narrow valley were small openings beside the Santa Clara Creek where crops
could be planted. William Hamblin moved his family there, and his relatives Dudley and
Jeremiah Leavitt and Isaac Riddle joined him.

Being up river was a comfortable feeling, but the settlers would soon find themselves
vulnerable to floods. Another threat was Indians who stole their cattle. The town, called
Gunlock, after its colorful founder, is an example of the individual enterprise of young
families seeking land wherever they could stake their homes rather than being in a
planned Mormon colony. The Leavitt and Riddle families moved there from Santa Clara,
and the Holt and Hunt families later migrated from Hebron."

Unlike some other of the early communities that were settled and later were abandoned
and become "Ghost Towns", Gunlock has remained a viable community since its
settlement. While it has not expanded and grown like some of the cities and towns in the
lower part of the county, Gunlock remains an important part of Washington County.

Geography and Topography:

Geographically, Gunlock lies northwest of the cities of Santa Clara and Ivins along the
Santa Clara River. Lying between these cities and Gunlock is the Piute Indian
Reservation. Access to the community is via Old Highway 91 which went westward
from Santa Clara, over Utah Hill, and into Arizona and Nevada. This road, for many



                                             2
years was the connection with Utah and from points north and east to the Pacific coast
and the Los Angeles basin. Turning north from Highway 91 while still within the
boundary of the Indian reservation, it is a short distance to the community of Gunlock.
Going north from and east from Gunlock, the county road connects with Highway 18
between St. George City and Enterprise City at the community of Veyo.

Gunlock is located at an elevation of about 3,700 feet, or about 1,000 -1,100 feet above
the City of St. George. Elevation wise Gunlock lies about mid way between the Mojave
Desert and the Colorado Plateau.

The Gunlock bench slopes from the ridge along the west side of the community to the
Santa Clara River which generally bisects the valley from north to south. The land form
then rises to the base of the eastern hills above which lies the upper and lower Sand Cove
Reservoirs. At one time a significant amount of electrical power was generated from the
fall of water from the top of the bluff to the valley floor.

The entire community of Gunlock is generally identified as including about 6.992.31
acres of land which includes the farming area to the north of the community. The land
south of the community to the Gunlock Reservoir may also be considered a part of
Gunlock.

                                     Table I.
                      Land Ownership/Management in Gunlock

               Bureau of Land Management                     2,888.67 ac.   4.51 sq. mi.
               State of Utah - Trust Land + UDWR             1,062.41 ac    1.66 sq. mi.
               State Park                                      450.15 ac.   0.70 sq. mi.
               Quasi Public Land - inc. school sites             6.89 ac.   0.01 sq. mi.
               Private Land                                  2,584.19 ac.   4.04 sq. mi.

                                             Total:          6,992.31 ac.   10.92 sq. mi.

The land at the northern end of the community is largely given to farming. It was settled
about the same time as the community itself by the Holt family from the Hebron area.
The land remained in the Holt/McGregor family until more recent years when it was
obtained by the Smith family who maintains and farms the land now.

There is currently no land in the valley identified as commercial land, although at one
time there was a store / post office that occupied a building on the east side of the
highway through town about mid way from the north to the south end of the valley. That
same land also contained a mobile home park which has more recently has been
purchased by the Gunlock community for a park site.

Across the river toward the reservoir is an industrial operation that produces various rock
products. This gravel operation provides significant safety to the Gunlock area by




                                             3
dredging the Santa Clara River between the town site and the reservoir to help keep flood
water from backing up into the community during times of flood.

Of the land in the area under control of the State, there is a block of State Institutional
Trust land lying west of the Gunlock Reservoir, and another block of State land lying at
the northern end of the valley. Land to the north-west and to the east of Gunlock is under
the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management. The actual Reservoir site is
managed by the Utah State Department of Parks and Recreation. This Reservoir receives
significant visitor use during the warm months of the year for water sports and for fishing
opportunities.

Much of the private land lying west and north of the Gunlock Townsite is open space
land and is devoted primarily to livestock grazing. Southeast of Gunlock is a large tract
of BLM land that has officially been designated as the Red Mountain Wilderness area by
act of Congress in the spring of 2009. It encompasses much of the land lying north of the
City of Ivins and south of the community of Dammeron Valley. It is bordered essentially
by State Highway 18 and Snow Canyon State Park on the east, and runs westward almost
to Gunlock.

A review of the land use of the valley is tabulated in the following table:

                                         Table II.
                                    Existing Land Use

                       Residential Development              14.26 ac.
                       Agriculture (farming)             1,313,77 ac.
                       Agriculture (Livestock grazing      955.97 ac.
                       including vacant land)
                       Industrial development (minerals)     25.11 ac.
                       Public / Quasi Public                  6.89 ac.
                       Wilderness Designation               45.73 ac.

                                              Total:         2,361.73 ac.


The above figures may not be totally survey accurate, but they paint a relative picture of
the various types of land use. Considering the private land in the valley alone, some
areas (955.97 ac.) of the private land is undeveloped. There is still much land available
for various types of land-use development.

Gunlock is a small island of private land surrounded by public land. While there is still
much private land available for development, the resources to do so, water, waste water,
etc., make any extensive growth in the Gunlock area very unlikely. Most of the citizens
responding the planning questionnaire requested that the community be allowed to
remain much as it is today. It remains today not unlike it did in the late 1800's and if, for




                                              4
no other reason than the two things indicated above, no significant changes in the current
size of the community are projected by the General Plan.

It should be noted as an item of interest, that in 1888 a school was formed in Gunlock
with 27 students. 18 of the students belonged to the Dudley Leavitt family. When
Dudley Leavitt moved, 18 of the students also moved, and the school closed. The
General Plan does not project the construction of a new school in Gunlock any time soon.

Agricultural Development:

This section has been discussed in the previous section dealing with open space. The
amount of cultivated agriculture, 1,313.77 acres, is limited due to the availability of
irrigation water, and the limitation of cultivatable land. The climate and growing season
are conducive to agricultural pursuits. The nature of the valley significantly limits any
extensive agricultural development beyond the current land use. Most of the agricultural
land belongs to one operator. It will likely remain agricultural as long as the owner wants
to continue farming the land, but it could change at some future date.

Much of the private land does lend itself to livestock production and grazing. The
amount of livestock that can be maintained is also limited however, based upon the
amount of feed that the land will produce in any given season.

Residential Development and Population:

There are currently some 54 dwellings according to the land use map of Gunlock. The
average family size, based upon the questionnaire, is quite large compared to the county
average. With a county average of 2.8 to 3.2 residents per dwelling, this would project an
average population in Gunlock of between about 150 to 170 residents.

Over the past ten years there have been six building permits issued for the Gunlock area.
If this same pattern continues for the next ten years, the community could expect another
six permits to be issued in Gunlock. This would provide another 18 residents for a total
of 170 to 190 residents in the next ten year period.

There was one new subdivision proposed in recent years for Gunlock, containing 9
lots. Because of the lack of topsoil over the bedrock in this subdivision, a single septic
system was proposed at the bottom of the hill where it was located. It was approved with
the use of this collection system. However, with the decline nation-wide in the economy,
development has not taken place. If this project is renewed at some point in the future, it
would add 9 building lots in Gunlock. If the water supply is able to supply that many
more water connections, that number of lots and new dwellings could easily amount to
the total expected growth in population during the next ten years, making the projected
population in the range of 200 - 220 residents.




                                             5
Population Density:

The projection of existing population and projected population are discussed in the
previous section dealing with population and population growth. However the number of
existing and projected new growth over the next ten years shows one of the lowest
population densities in the county. The 2,550.55 acres of private land, divided by the
projected population provides the density in terms of the number of acres per resident. In
the case of Gunlock, that amounts to about 11.6 acres per dwelling unit. By any standard,
that is very low.

Vision Dixie Summary:

According to the responses from the questionnaire circulated in the community, none of
the residents participated in the Vision Dixie Study that was undertaken by the county
just a few years ago. The outgrowth of the study and recommendations by the committee
charged with reviewing the material collected was a series of guidelines and policies
aimed at guiding future growth in the county. One of the lowest areas of projected future
growth would have to be the Gunlock area. Nonetheless the summary of the Vision
Dixie Study, adopted by the county and most of the incorporated cities and towns in the
county is summarized for the residents of Gunlock as follows:

1.     Plan regionally, implement locally. The General Plan for Gunlock is a locally
       prepared plan for this area only, and is a part of the overall county General Plan.
       It deals with aspects of the future of Gunlock and may be amended from time to
       time as necessary, still dealing with the concerns of the Gunlock area and not the
       county at large.

2.     Maintain air and water quality, and conserve water. Air and water quality is very
       good in Gunlock. The quality of culinary water in Gunlock was rated very high
       by those completing the planning questionnaire. Water conservation is also
       evident in the community; inasmuch is there is not a lot of extra water to waste.

3.     Guard our signature landscapes - All of the surrounding hillsides are maintained
       in an open space category. To the southeast of town is a congressionally
       designated wilderness area. The character of this area is not likely to change.

4.     Provide rich, connected natural recreation areas and open space - There are not a
       lot of community recreation facilities provided in Gunlock. The rodeo grounds
       located at the south end of the community provides some recreation opportunity.
       One respondent suggested that a community park would be nice to see developed.
       Otherwise, residents did not see a need for local recreation facilities. The
       Gunlock Reservoir is considered part of the Gunlock area and is a major
       recreation area in the summer months. There is a major wilderness area close by,
       and most of the land surrounding Gunlock is open space which offers a good deal
       of recreation opportunity in nearly all directions.




                                            6
5.    Build a balanced transportation system - Most of time, Gunlock can be accessed
      from either of two directions. That would be south to Old Highway 91 at the
      Indian Reservation, or north and east to Highway 18 in Veyo. In addition, a
      secondary access is available via the sand cove reservoirs connecting to Highway
      18 adjacent to the community of Dammeron Valley.

      Other types of transportation other than private vehicles are not likely to be found
      serving Gunlock anytime soon. During times of high water on the Santa Clara,
      none of the existing systems will be adequate to serve the community. Residents
      should simply be aware that during times of flood, Gunlock is probably going to
      be cut off from access to other areas of Washington County as happened in 2005,
      and again in 2010.

6.    Get centered by focusing on growth in walkable- mixed use centers - One could
      consider that Gunlock is generally a walkable community insofar as being to walk
      quite easily from one end of the community to the other. Being a mixed-use
      community is another matter. Located on the banks of the Santa Clara River
      prohibits any type of high density development because of the lack of sewage
      disposal facilities. On site treatment facilities are available for use now in Utah.
      However, if the whole community was connected to an on site system, the cost to
      each resident would still be prohibitive.

7.    Direct growth inward - Gunlock would appear to be doing well in meeting this
      planning recommendation of the Vision Dixie Plan. As mentioned above,
      Gunlock is basically a walkable community. There are not very many areas
      where subdivision and growth could occur outside of the current valley. The
      Smith property to the north could, at some future time, support conversion of the
      farmland to residential use. This represents about the only area where additional
      development could reasonably take place.

8.    Provide a broad range of housing types - This element is discussed in section 7
      above. The use of septic tanks eliminates most proposals any type of use other
      than single family dwellings.

9.    Reserve areas for industry - The only existing industrial development in the valley
      is an operation tied to the existing availability of mineral development. There are
      no sites that would conveniently lend themselves to industrial development
      because of the transportation problem to existing major highways and freeway
      systems.

10.    Public land conversion - No land in Gunlock is needed for conversion to private
      ownership to provide for community expansion. This policy would not apply
      in the Gunlock area.




                                           7
Commercial Development:

Commercial development is non-existent in Gunlock except for some possible home
occupations. In some of the other "bedroom communities in the county, home
occupations make up a significant element.

One goal of the Vision Dixie Project is to try to make communities as sustainable as
possible. This means that residents should be able to find work where they live, and that
circulation through the community might better accomplished with walking and bike
paths as opposed to automobiles.

One resident suggested that a service station/convenience store might be useful in
Gunlock. Economic demand drives most decisions to construct commercial facilities. If
the Gunlock Reservoir was much larger than it actually is, it might be able to attract a
service station/convenience market in that area. The General Plan would agree that such a
facility somewhere in the Gunlock area would be a benefit to the community. It would
be difficult to suggest where such a facility might locate, or whether there would be any
economic benefit to an owner to provide such a facility in Gunlock. While the General
Plan agrees with this suggestion, but can find no site on which it could be neither located,
nor any economic benefit to a proprietor of such a facility at the present time.

Industrial Development:

Industrial development was discussed earlier as one of the Vision Dixie guidelines.
There is only one industrial development in the Gunlock valley. It is related to mineral
development and provides a benefit to the area by dredging material from the Santa Clara
River above the Gunlock Reservoir from time to time. Other industrial development in
the Gunlock area is not projected at any time in the near future.

Public Services:

A section on public services as they relate county-wide is found at the beginning of this
section, Section VII, of the General Plan. Some comments are re-stated herein as they
relate specifically to the community of Gunlock.

Electricity:

Electric service to Gunlock is provided by the Rocky Mountain Power Company. With
upgrades to their ability to provide power to the westerly side of the county, along with
plans to continue to upgrade their system, communities such as Gunlock should be
provided with the needed electrical services for many years to come.

Natural Gas:

The nearest supply line of natural gas in the westerly part of the county is parallel to
Highway 18, and runs from a substation near Central southward to the City of St. George.



                                             8
It is not expected that a loop through Gunlock will be constructed in the near future.
Gunlock will still be served by propane gas service for those residents that desire to use
this form of fuel.

Water:

Water in Gunlock is currently provided by the Gunlock Special Service District. This
board is operated by the residents of the community. It appears to be adequate to serve
the current needs of the community, having received upgrades during the past few years.
It is not sufficient to supply unlimited growth and development, which is not expected to
take place.

In the recent planning questionnaire filled out by many residents, the water system
received very high remarks insofar as satisfaction with the service is concerned. It is
expected that the water company will continue to make upgrades and improvements to
the system as time and money to do so permit. The present system should be adequate
for the future decade of the Gunlock General Plan.

Sewage Disposal:

This public service has been discussed previously in this plan in relation to residential
development and the growth and development of the area. Presently, homes are served
by septic tank as the means of liquid disposal.

One improvement that could be made to these septic tanks would be to have the tanks
inspected on an annual basis to determine their continued ability to provide the service
for which they were installed. If they were inspected regularly and pumped as often as
necessary for good maintenance, they should continue to serve the needs of the
community well into the future.

On-site treatment facilities are now available for use in areas where septic tanks are no
longer considered a viable alternative to a sewage collection system. The cost of such a
system in Gunlock would be prohibitive given the current and projected population. The
only concern raised by the General Plan is in relation to keeping the current system of
individual septic tanks in a healthy condition, considering the proximity of the
community to the Gunlock Reservoir and the Santa Clara River. An inspection and
maintenance system could alleviate this potential concern. The General Plan would
recommend that a maintenance system in Gunlock be considered.

Roads:

Road maintenance in Gunlock is provided by the Washington County Road Department.
Financing for road maintenance comes from the Utah Department of Transportation
through a funding formula that allows different amounts of maintenance money for
different types of roads. There are hundreds of miles of roads in Washington County that
the road department is charged with maintaining. The funding amount changes from year



                                             9
to year and is based upon payments received by the county from the state as a percentage
of the income from the gasoline tax paid at the gas pump. This tax source, rather than the
taxes paid to the county general fund have been the source of funding for the road
department for many years.

More recently, funds were received by the county to upgrade the two bridges serving
Gunlock at the lower end of the community and just north of Gunlock going toward
Veyo. This funding was obtained as a result of the 2005 flood that isolated Gunlock from
the rest of the County.

The flood of 2010 caused problems with these recent improvements. At the same time,
the road connecting with Veyo was cut off by the flooding of the washes at the foot of the
dugway leading up to Veyo. There was also flooding at the Old Highway 91 Bridge over
the Santa Clara River in the Indian Reservation.

Continued improvements of the access roads to and from Gunlock connecting it with
other parts of the County are still a concern. However, even with recent improvements,
opportunities for flooding at other locations can still cause Gunlock to become isolated in
time of flood. This is one area where the General Plan recommends that the county will
still need to continue working to try to solve this problem. At this time residents should
understand the difficulties that a flood on the Santa Clara River present, and prepare for
isolation from the county at large during flood situations.

One concern expressed by the residents of Gunlock is related to the bicycle groups that
travel through Gunlock on a regular basis. Gunlock only has one road through the town
and when groups tie up the road for a long period of time, it becomes very difficult for
residents to do the things that they need to do. The General Plan makes several
recommendations for the county to consider relative to this problem as follows:

1.     Identify a bicycle lane through Gunlock. This may involve some widening of the
       roadway through the town. A bicycle lane should be marked on the pavement.
2.     A bicycle lane must require bicycles to be in a single line not only through town
       but all the way from Veyo to Old Highway 91. A sign on both ends of Gunlock
       should identify these regulations.
3.     These requirements should be part of any county conditional use permit approval
       for bike groups anywhere on the Gunlock road with penalties assessed for
       violations.
4.     Whenever bike groups requesting conditional use permits from the county are
       scheduled on the Planning Commission agenda, citizens from Gunlock should be
       notified of the meeting so that they can attend and express their concerns.

It is not likely that the county can exclude all bicycle groups that want to ride through
Gunlock any more that they can eliminate the St. George Marathon that takes place in
October on Highway 18. But the General Plan recommends that consideration be given
by the county as to how to better organize these rides through Gunlock to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of Gunlock residents.



                                            10
Fire protection:

Fire protection in Gunlock is one area in which the General Plan recommends that
considerable effort be made to upgrade and improve the system. Gunlock is currently a
part of the North West Fire District that includes most of the communities in that part of
the County. Currently Gunlock has one brush truck, housed in a garage next to the
community building, and a pumper which is housed outside and must have the water
drained during colder months. Service is provided both by units elsewhere in the fire
district as well as from the Fire Station in Ivins city. The General makes several
recommendations for improvements to the Gunlock fire system.

1.     Develop the necessary manpower to man fire suppression equipment in Gunlock
       which involves creating a volunteer department, firemen being properly trained to
       respond to local fires and to respond to wildland fires that may threaten the
       community.
2.     Contact other areas, Pine Valley being a good example, to find out how to
       properly organize in Gunlock to create a trained department. Training is available
       from within the North West District, from Ivins City, or cities or towns in the
       county.
3.     Improve the facilities available by obtaining grant funds, available from several
       sources in the same manner as the community has done to upgrade the water
       system, and to provide a fire station and the equipment necessary to protect those
       on the volunteer department. Grants for an isolated area such s Gunlock should
       rate high on the approval list from any source of funding, of which there are
       several.
4.     Become an active participant with the North West Fire District, or create a
       singular fire district only in the Gunlock area.
5.     Contract with a neighboring city, Ivins, for response to Gunlock fires to take care
       of some of the needs that the local department might not be able to handle.

Fire protection would appear to be one area in which Gunlock should make efforts to
improve similar to other unincorporated communities. To study the model in Pine Valley
would be a good place to begin.

Public Safety:

Police protection in Gunlock is provided by the Washington County Sheriff's office. This
service will continue as long as Gunlock continues as an unincorporated part of
Washington County. Some communities desiring greater protection have contracted with
the county to increase the amount of sheriff's visibility in their community through a
specific contract calling for more sheriffs’ protection in exchange for additional funds
being raised by the community.




                                            11
Solid Waste:

A solid Waste Board made up of one representative from each city or town, along with
one member from the county, oversee the collection of solid waste in the county. This
board contracts with a private company to provide the collection of waste in the county.
There is a central landfill location which is owned by Washington County and managed
by the solid waste company. This site is expected to sufficient for many years to come.
The system of management and oversight is also expected to continue.

Building Inspection:

Building inspection for dwelling units and other types of building construction are
provided by the county building department. The cost of building permits is established
to defray the cost of inspection during periods of building construction. Building permit
costs in the unincorporated communities are significantly less than found in most of the
incorporated cities and towns in the county.

Communication:

Most of Washington County is served by the CenturyLink communication company. In
addition to CenturyLink services there are a number of private cellular companies
providing service such within the county. Citizen response to the planning questionnaire
resulted in a mixed reaction to the question dealing with communication services. From
the citizen response, it may be concluded that communications in Gunlock are generally
adequate, with the General Plan recommending that communication providers continue to
upgrade their services to the Gunlock area.

Flood Control:

This subject received significant comment in the section dealing with roads. Therefore, it
need not be repeated at this time. The General Plan recommends that the county continue
to improve road conditions in areas that are subject to flooding in order to provide a
better connection from Gunlock to the balance of the county during times of flooding.
The efforts that have been made, particularly since the 2005 floods in the area, were a
large step toward improvements the challenge of flood protection in Gunlock

Cemetery:

It was brought to the county during the public meeting in Gunlock that the Gunlock
Cemetery is at capacity. The General Plan recommends that the county look at possible
alternatives that might be identified on adjacent public land which could possibly be
obtained under a public purpose lease for cemetery development.




                                            12
Incorporation:

One final issue related to public services is the question of incorporation. Under Utah
State law, a petition for incorporation must originate from the community wishing to
pursue this alternative. The minimum number of residents required to request
incorporation is 100 persons. Gunlock would qualify with the current population.
Whether or not this is an alternative that should be considered further is a decision of the
residents of Gunlock. The county does not oppose incorporation of a community. The
county is not promoting incorporation of the unincorporated communities in the county,
but would lend support in whatever decision a community might make.

In each area of the county where the planning staff has held a meeting concerning
planning in the unincorporated areas of the county, the one comment that was made at
each and every meeting was the comment, "We like it just like it is." To keep things just
like they are is a noble desire, but each and every resident gets one day older each day
and year, which makes "keeping things the way they are," something that is not possible
to have happen.

The question then is not whether things change, but rather, "Will we as citizens of a given
area be prepared to give direction and input to change when it happens, or will we sit
back and wait until something happens in our area and then wish that we had been able to
do something about the change after it has taken place."

To be aware of what is happening, and to give citizen input to projected change, before it
happens is the opportunity of the residents of this community as a result of the General
Plan Study. On the other hand, of all of the unincorporated communities in this county,
Gunlock will probably be involved in less change during the coming decade than any of
the other unincorporated communities in the county. Now, if only we could come up
with some way of keeping each resident just as they are today, without any change in age,
health, or other condition of getting older.




                                             13
         WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY SURVEY ANALYSIS
                             FOR
                  THE COMMUNITY OF GUNLOCK
                          2010 - 2011

On October, 2010, staff members of the county planning department met with citizens of
the community of Gunlock at the town office. The group was small, but those present
entered into a discussion of the Gunlock community. Questionnaires were completed by
those in attendance with others able to submit the same information over the internet or to
fill out the form and submit them to the county planning office.

Following is a summary of the questions and the comments that were responded to by
those present.

The length of time that residents have lived in the community was rather long with an
average of 35 years. This average is much greater than for most of the communities in the
county. Some had lived in Gunlock for their entire lifetime which was much longer than
35 years.

The average size of families in Gunlock was an average of 4.

Many reasons were given for living in Gunlock. These reasons included being born or
raised there, (75%); close to family, friends, or neighbors; close to the mountains; the
opportunity to keep animals; a safe environment; a small town atmosphere.

Most residents felt that the small town environment should be preserved. As to how to
do this, the following comments were given: doing what we're doing; a limited
government; leave us as is; zoning; leave farms alone.

To preserve farmland in the area, which everyone who commented wanted to see done,
some of the ways to do this were given including: zoning; leave farmers alone; don't sell;
no more move-in's; limit growth; give no more water taps; don't build any more homes;
and leave it as it is.

A few of the respondents were in favor of developing a trail system in the area. The
majority were not in favor of a trail or bicycle system.

A few respondents considered off highway vehicles on the streets to be a problem. Most
did not. However, most had significant concerns relative to traffic control and speed on
the main street of Gunlock. As far as road condition was concerned, there were wide
spread responses ranging from little concern by most residents to a few indicating a major
concern.

Consideration could be given to education of OHV users in Gunlock. There is some
concern relative to the safe use of these vehicles by those using them on the streets of
Gunlock.



                                             14
There are few undedicated streets in Gunlock; therefore, there was not much concern
relative to whether or not roads needed to be dedicated.

Relative to the question of locating commercial development in Gunlock, 50% of the
respondents felt that there should be no commercial business in the community, and the
nearest they recommended having commercial business was at the reservoir. About the
same number did not want to see significant commercial development take place, but felt
that a service station would be beneficial to the community. In this day and age, a service
station usually implies also having a handi-mart type of commercial business attached to
the service station.

The series of questions relative to existing public services received the following
responses:

Ambulance service is rated somewhere between fair to good, but not excellent. Water
quality and service was rated very high by nearly all respondents. Water quality and
service was the highest rated of all current public services. The current water company
would appear to be doing a very good job in providing the needed commodity to the
residents of Gunlock.

Electrical service was also given a high rating by most respondents to the questionnaire,
with only a few feeling that the service could be improved. Fire protection seemed to be
somewhat evenly spread between good and fair with one poor recommendation and one
excellent rating.

Garbage service rated between good to excellent. Law enforcement was also spread out
between poor to excellent. The Postal service generally received good to excellent
ratings, as did telephone service. Receiving lower ratings was cellular service.

The question of providing recreation facilities in Gunlock was very strong for not
providing communities with one respondent suggesting that a park would be nice.

The question on how best to be informed of meetings indicated that posting at the mail
boxes was the preferred method with word of mouth being a close second. Some felt an
E-Mail list of residents would be useful. At least one favored mail delivered to the home.
This method would be the least likely to happen because of the cost involved to send
letters to each home in the county who might be impacted whenever an issue arose
relative to any given community.

Some time ago, the county was involved in what was called a Vision Dixie planning
effort. The responses to the questionnaire indicated that none of those responding had
participated in the Vision Dixie project. A summary of the plan will be found elsewhere
as a part of the community General Plan.




                                            15
     WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY STATISTICAL SURVEY
                           FOR
               THE COMMUNITY OF GUNLOCK
                        2010 - 2011

1.   Residency Status:

     a.     How long have you lived at this location?      35 years average
     b.     Number in our family? 4 average.
     c.     Home Owner 90 %
     d.     Land owner only 10 %
            1. Approx. number of acres 3 ac. average

2.   Please mark characteristics Tat you value the most or that help you chose to live
     or own property in this area.

     Born or raised in the area 75 %
     Close to family, friends, or neighbors 75%
     Close to mountains, Etc. 37.5 %
     Like the open space. 75 %
     The opportunity to keep horses, animals, etc. 12.5 %
     Quiet community. 87.5 %
     Recreational opportunities. 37.5 %
     Safe environment 50 %
     Small town atmosphere. 100 %

3.   Should the rural atmosphere be preserved?

     Yes 87.5 %
     If yes, how do you propose to do this?
              Doing what we're doing, limited government, leave as is, zoning, leave
              farms alone, leave as is, why

     Should existing farm land be preserved?

     Yes - 100 %
     If yes, how do you proposed to do this?
              Zoning, leave farmers alone, zoning, don't sell, no more move in's, limit
              growth, limit water taps, don't build more homes, leave as it is now

4.   Would you favor developing a system of walking/bicycle trails throughout the
     community?

     Yes - 12.5 %
     No - 75 %



                                          16
5.    Please rank on a scale of 1-5 your concerns on each of the following: traffic,
      safety, street and road issues. Most concerned = 5, least concerned = 1, No
      problem = 0.

      a.     Off-highway vehicles on streets - 0 = 44.4 %, 1 = 33.3 %., 5 = 22.2 %
      b.     Speed / traffic control - 0 = 11.1%, 3 = 22.2 %, 4 = 22.2 %., 5 = 44.4 %
      c.     Road Condition - 0 = 22.2 %, 1 = 11.1 %, 3 = 11.1 %, 5 = 11.1 %
      d.     Unsafe ORV use - 0 = 33.3 %, 1 = 33.3 %, 3 - 11.1 %, 5 = 11.1 %
      e.     Street Dedication - 0 = 33.3 %, 1 = 11.1 %, 3 = 11.1 %, 5 = 11.1 %

6.    Desired commercial or industrial business? None - 50% , Service station 50%

7.    Where should business or industry be located? None, or at reservoir

8.    Rate your experience with the following local services as they relate to your area.
      Excellent = 5, Poor = 1, No experience = 0

      a.     Ambulance / medical - 0 = 22.2 %. 1 = 33.3 %, 4 = 11.1 %,
      b.     Water service & quality - 4 = 22.2 %, 5 = 77.7%
      c.     Electrical power service - 0 = 11.1 %, 3 - 22.2%, 4 = 44.4 %, 5 = 33.3 %
      d.     Fire protection - 0 = 11.1 %, 1 - 22.2 %, 3 = 11.1 %, 4 = 22.2 %,
             5 = 11.1 %
      e.     Garbage service - 4 = 33.3 %, 5 = 55.5 %
      f.     Law enforcement - 0 = 11.1%, 1 = 11.1 %, 3 = 44.4 %, 5 = 22.2 %
      g.     Postal service - 1 = 11.1 %, 3 = 33.3 %, 4 = 11.1 %, 5 = 22.2 %
      h.     School transportation - 0 = 44.4 %, 1 = 55.5 %. 5 = 22.1 %
      i.     Telephone service - 0 = 11.1 %, 4 = 22.2 %, 5 = 55.5 %
      j.     Cell phone service - 0 = 11.1 %, 1 = 11.1 %, 3 = 44.4 %, 4 = 11.1 %,
             5 = 11.1 %

9.    Should the community provide recreation facilities for residents of the
      community? Yes 11.1 %, No 77.7 %

10.   If the answer was yes, list up to 3 facilities that were desirable. a park - 11.1 %

11.   How can you best be informed about meetings, times, agendas, events, issues,
      etc.?
      a.    Word of mouth - 66.6 %
      b.    Mail boxes - 77.7 %
      c.    An E-mail list - 11.1 %
      d.    Posting on interned - 11.1 %
      e.    Other - Mail and deliver to home

12.   Did you participate in the vision Dixie program? Yes - 0, No 100 %




                                           17
