        THE GENERAL PLAN
               FOR
THE COMMUNITY OF CENTRAL / DIXIE DEER
             2010-2011




                Prepared by
           The Washington County
            Planning Department
                         THE CENTRAL / DIXIE DEER ESTATES
                               GENERAL PLAN
                                 2010 - 2011

Introduction:

The Central / Dixie Deer Estates area is an unincorporated part of Washington County.
Residents and others should take time to review Section I of the Washington County
General Plan which discusses planning in general, the basis for planning, and the purpose
of planning. Many of the things mentioned in the beginning of Section VII are also
relevant to residents of this part of the county. The General Plan of the Central / Dixie
Deer community provides guidelines for the future in addition to those things that are
applied county wide in the other sections of the General Plan.

The first efforts to develop the Central area took place in the late nineteenth century.
Nothing came from this effort until Henry Holt discovered the efforts to develop water
and pursued that effort with some of the residents of Pine Valley. He was successful to
bring water from the Santa Clara River to the Central flat.

Peter E. Beckstrom, William A. Bracken, Henry L. Holt, James Chadburn, and M. E.
Bracken filed entry for the first five homesteads. By February 1909, these first settlers
moved into their homes. The name of Central was chosen as the name of the community
because of its being centrally located between Enterprise, Gunlock, Veyo, and Pine
Valley.

In the fall of 1909 H.D. Holt, P. E. Bracken, and M. E. Bracken, were chosen to represent
the new town as a Board of Trustees. School was started in a large tent with forty
children from first to eighth grades attending.

In 1934-35 a culinary water system was installed that brought pure water from the near-
by Mountains to the community. With income from the cattle and dairy industries, in
addition to their farm crops, the community residents were rewarded for their efforts in
establishing the community.

The official town site plat for Central was recorded on April 20, 1920 with M. E. Bracken
and William Bracken as signers on the plat. On August 20, 1935 a resolution was passed
by the Washington County Commission approving the incorporation of the town of
Central as an incorporated town. At the time of incorporation Royal S. Hunt was
appointed as President of the Town Board. George H. Lytle was Vice-President, and
Daniel Leavitt, Vivian Bracken, and Novel Bracken were appointed Directors.

Central continued as an incorporated town until December 12, 1969 when the town was
un-incorporated. At the time of its un-incorporation, all of the improvements, a water
system was turned over to Washington County. The National Forest granted a right of
way to the county for access to the water system, and a road to service the water system
on the National Forest.
The Dixie Deer development began in 1962 when Phase I was recorded. At that time, the
county did not have a subdivision ordinance, and an almost non-existent zoning
ordinance which might have required road widths, setback requirements, etc. The land
was sold prior to Phase II being recorded, along with all subsequent Phases. Phase II was
recorded 9-21-70, Phase III & IV on 8-22-73, with Phase V being recorded on 12-17-74.

Some of the hillside land west of the State Highway was proposed for development, but
for whatever reason was never recorded. Some of the grades on the streets exceeded the
requirement of the zoning ordinance, among other things. The developer also proposed
the construction of a private airport at one time, located south of the phases on the west
side of the highway. It was never constructed. There is still vacant land owned by the
developers of the Dixie Deer development which could yet be completed at some time in
the future.

Geography and Topography:

The community of Central /Dixie Deer lies in the north-west traffic and residential
corridor of Washington County. It is about 25 miles north of the City center of St.
George, and 18 miles south of the City of Enterprise. There are no other communities
between Central / Dixie Deer and Enterprise. The Community of Veyo lies about 6 miles
to the south, and Pine Valley is located about 7 miles to the east.

Agriculture was the predominant use of the land in the Central valley. Much of the land
is still maintained in agricultural use. The valley is surrounded by National Forrest land
on three sides, west, north, and east. The land to the south is under the jurisdiction of the
Bureau of Land Management. The valley itself is primarily made up of private land.

Table I identifies the land ownership in the valley and the approximate amount of land
under the jurisdiction of each owner.

                                      Table I
                        Land Ownership in Central / Dixie Deer

                       National Forest         566.64 acres 0.89 sq. miles
                       Private land          1,978.00 acres. 1.83 sq. miles

                               Total:        2,544.64 acres

Table I identifies the fact that there are only two land managers in the community. Those
are the National Forest, and the private land owners. There is BLM land to the south of
the Central valley that is not included in Table I.

Table II shows a breakdown of the private land in the community.
                                         Table II.
                                    Existing Land Use

                       Quasi Public                             2.37 acres
                       Residential                            284.19 acres
                       Agricultural - farming/crops           250.00 acres
                       Vacant, undeveloped, grazing         1,441.44 acres
                       Industrial                                .99 acres

                                       Total:               1,978.00 acres

The above figures may not be totally survey accurate, but they do paint a picture of the
various types of land use. There is still much land available for some type of
development.

Residential development in Central / Dixie Deer occupies about 30.2 % of the private
land in the valley. Vacant, undeveloped, farming and grazing occupy about 69.5 percent
of the total private land, and industrial land occupies less than 1% of the private land
total.

Agricultural Development:

Because of lack of space for growth, many of the second generation of the original
settlers began moving to other areas and eventually there were few original settlers left in
Central. Outsiders began buying up the land and water rights. Notably in this regard was
Pat Clark from Las Vegas, who purchased much of the land and about half of the water
rights.

At this time there are about 250 acres of irrigated land in the valley with the addition of a
number of acres of dry land farming. There is not a significant amount of additional
farmable land, or enough water to irrigate the land in the valley. The land that is farmed
should be under the green belt provision of the law, and could also be included in an
agricultural protection area for as long as farming continues.

Residential Development and population considerations:

The Dixie Deer subdivision development was created in 5 Phases. These phases contain
a total of 493 platted and recorded lots. There are 5 platted subdivision lots in the Central
area of the community. Central was created from a town site development which divided
much of the community into blocks and lots. Some of the original lots in the town site
plat have been broken up into smaller lots. In Central and Dixie Deer combined, there
are approximately 498 existing residential lots.
Population, existing and projected:

In 1930, Central had a population of 92 residents, 20 of whom were children. In 1938 the
population had increased to 125 residents. Accurate population figures for Central are a
little hard to substantiate. A figure from 1940 showed 70 residents and another figure
from 1970 showed a total of 15 residents. After the Dixie Deer subdivision began to be
developed, the population has increased for every year since that project began. There
have been 73 new building permits issued over the past ten years.

There are 498 total lots in the community area. Of that total, 349 lots contain dwelling
units. Using the population figures from those responding to the questionnaire, the
community has an average of two persons per dwelling unit. This would create a
population of about 700 persons. Using the average family size county wide, the
average number per dwelling would be three persons per dwelling unit, or a total existing
population of 1,100 persons.

There are additionally 149 vacant lots in the Dixie Deer subdivisions, which includes
about 11 vacant lots platted in Central. Using the same population figures this would add
between 300 to 450 residents to the community for a total build out population of
between 1,000 and 1,600 residents as a build-out population.

There is still undeveloped land in the Dixie Deer area, more undeveloped land in the
Central part of the community. This land, if developed, could add significantly more
residents to the area and increase the population accordingly.

A lack of culinary water could be the greatest restriction to growth in both of these
community areas, without which, the population projections would show growth up to the
extent that culinary connections are available.

Vision Dixie Summary:

According to the response from the questionnaire circulated in the community, none of
the respondents from this community participated in the Vision Dixie study that was
undertaken by the county a few years ago. The outgrowth of the study and
recommendations by the committee charged with reviewing the material collected was a
series of guidelines and policies aimed at guiding future growth in the county. The
summary of the Vision Dixie study, adopted by the county and most of the incorporated
cities and towns in the county is summarized for the residents of Central/Dixie Deer
estates as follows:

1.     Plan regionally, implement locally - The General Plan for Central/Dixie Deer is a
       locally prepared plan for this area of the county only, and is a part of the overall
       county General Plan. It deals with aspects of the future of the Central/Dixie Deer
       valley and may be amended from time to time as necessary, dealing with the
       concerns of this community, and not related to the county at large.
2.   Maintain air and water quality, and conserve water - This community has a high
     standard of air quality. The low population density of this community, and the
     separation of this area from other more urban areas of the county help to maintain
     good air quality. Water conservation is necessary because of the limited amount
     of water that is available here.

3.   Guard our signature landscapes - The surrounding hillsides of this
     community are maintained in an open space category on public land.
     With the Vision Dixie principles in place, it can be expected that the
     surrounding view sheds on the public land will be protected.

4.   Provide connected natural recreation areas and open spaces - Most of the
     surrounding public land areas provide considerable natural recreation areas. The
     Pine Valley recreation area is very close to this community as is the Pine Valley
     wilderness area. In addition, there are numerous roads and trails that are available
     to residents of this community for natural outdoor recreation. There are probably
     more natural outdoor recreation areas available to residents living here than
     anywhere else in the county.

5.   Build an balanced transportation system - There is no public transportation
     system available to residents of Central / Dixie Deer. If a public
     transportation system was ever developed between St. George City and the
     City of Enterprise, This community would benefit from being located
     along the State Highway between these two cities. Until that time, there
     will be no public system between the Central valley and the City of St.
     George.

6.   Get centered by focusing on growth in walk-able mixed use centers - The
     community of Central is generally walk-able as is much of the Dixie Deer
     subdivision. The Vision Dixie study recommended that dwellings should
     be located within three-quarters of a mile from a commercial center.
     There are no commercial facilities located in the community, but if such a
     center was developed on the north side of the Pine Valley road near the
     intersection with Highway 18, many of the residents could walk to that
     location and be within the distance recommended by the Vision Dixie
     plan.

7.   Direct growth inward - All of the growth in the Dixie Deer subdivision
     has been contained within the platted and recorded plats. Virtually all of
     the development in the Central area has also been in the area that was
     platted for residential development in the town site plat. The community
     has done very well in complying with the policy of the Vision Dixie Plan
     in directing growth inward.

8.   Provide a wide range of housing types - This policy works well in the
     urbanized county locations where sewer service is available. It does not
       work in the unincorporated areas of the county where sewer service is not
       available. The soil conditions in the county make it very difficult to
       provide mixed development, or high density residential development using
       septic tanks.

9.     Reserve areas for Industry - There is one parcel of property in the
       community that can be identified as an industrial site. It is more of an
       equipment storage yard than an actual industrial site.

       The community of Central / Dixie Deer does not lend itself to industrial
       development because of the distance of the community from a major
       transportation site. If there were industrial products being produced in the
       community, then it would be a question of moving them to the market. In
       this case, there are no locally produced products. Therefore, it would be
       necessary to bring the materials to the site before creating the product and
       then moving it to the market place. The community is not an area where
       industrial development is likely to take place.

10.    Public land conversion - The community of Central / Dixie Deer is
       surrounded by public land, particularly the National Forest. None of this
       land is identified as being necessary for future development of the
       community other than a small parcel of Forest land that is needed to
       connect Phase I and Phase II of the Dixie Deer development together.

Commercial Development:

One goal of the Vision Dixie Plan is to try to make communities as sustainable as
possible. This means that residents should be able to find work where they live, and that
circulation through the community might be better with walking and bike trails as
opposed to automobiles.

Relative to commercial development in the community, the questionnaires returned by
the residents attending the planning meeting held here last summer indicated that there
was no desire to have commercial development here. Suggestions for commercial
development included Enterprise, St. George, and Veyo.

Veyo has been identified by all of the other "west side" developments as a suitable for
commercial development. It does fit the definition as a satellite commercial site
according to the Vision Dixie Plan.

Many years ago, as a part of the development, Phase I of the Dixie Deer development
included the development of a restaurant and motel facility. This facility continued to be
used for a number of years, but eventually closed and has not been used for many years.
In fact, it has been recommended that this commercial building be torn down and
removed from the community as being a danger in its current condition. The General
Plan would recommend that the building be inspected to determine whether or not the
county could require its tearing down and elimination. If it is a community hazard, the
county could facilitate its removal. If not, it would be a private issue with the owner of
the property.

The General Plan does not recommend commercial development in this community.
However, should economic conditions dictate that commercial development was
desirable, the location near the intersection of the Pine Valley road and State Highway
18, would be one location where commercial development could take place. It is a spot
where residential development is not likely to take place and would be within the distance
recommended by the Vision Dixie Plan where commercial development would be within
an acceptable distance from existing development.

While the General Plan would identify the above site as having commercial potential in
keeping with the Vision Dixie Plan, it should be indicated that the General Plan is not
suggesting that this location be developed in an effort to attract commercial business
from either the Pine Valley road or the State Highway. It should only be developed to
serve local needs which would require that there be an economic basis for commercial
development to take place in the community.

There is one facility that was recently approved in the community that does have
commercial characteristics related to it. This is the motocross facility that was approved
by conditional use permit by the County Planning Commission about one year ago
located near the eastern edge of the community.

After being approved for one year, the facility has recently been approved for permanent
status by the planning commission. There were evidently no complaints received by the
county over the past year that would indicate any local concerns with the facility.

Industrial Development:

Industrial development was discussed briefly during the section summarizing the vision
Dixie Plan dealing with industry. There is no industrial development in the Central/
Dixie Deer area. There is one facility that is classified as a contractor storage yard
located along State Highway 18. This facility has been there for a number of years. The
owners have made efforts from time to time to beautify the area and to screen it from
adjacent uses. There are no residential uses located adjacent to the site.

Public Services:

A section of the General Plan dealing with public services county-wide is located in
Section VII of the General Plan. This section of the Plan will be adopted in connection
with the adoption of the various community plans and is not currently a part of the
General Plan. Some comments specific to the Central / Dixie Deer plan are re-stated here
as they relate specifically to this community.
Electricity:
Electric service to Central / Dixie Deer is provided by the Rocky Mountain power
company. This company has recently upgraded their distribution lines from the Red
Butte distribution center. The main distribution line from Sigurd to the Red Butte station
is also being upgraded. With these upgrades, the power company feels that they should
be able to provide electrical service to the west side of the county for a long time to
come.

The citizens generally gave their electrical service good marks in terns of reliable service
to the community. The ability to provide good service to the residents should be able to
continue for a long period of time.

Natural Gas:

There is a major natural gas distribution line that currently parallels State Highway 18
and runs between the Red Butte sub-station, and joins a comparable line coming into the
county from the east side of the county to St. George City. These lines provide a stable
source of natural gas to the county and to most of the communities therein.

Water:

Water in the community is provided from two separate sources. The Central area is
served by the Central SSD culinary water system, and the Dixie Deer area is served by
the Dixie Deer culinary water system. When the Dixie Deer development took place,
Central town, as it was at that time, did not have sufficient water to serve the Dixie Deer
development. The Dixie Deer developers provided their own system which later formed
the DDSSD, and the two systems have remained as separate companies.

Neither system has sufficient resources to allow any significant expansion. If the Dixie
Deer system can provide for all of the currently undeveloped lots in the subdivision, it
cannot provide water for any significant expansion. The Central water system is in about
the same situation. Additional water for culinary use in the community is the major
restriction to future growth and expansion.

There is also a limited amount of irrigation water available in the Central area. The
current supply is completely subscribed to by those owning the water shares for
irrigation. There is land that could be irrigated if additional water was available.

Sewage Disposal:

Central / Dixie Deer Estates is served by septic tanks. Because of poor soil conditions in
a few areas of Dixie Deer Estates, two of the lots there are served by what amounts to
individual sewage treatment systems. This type of system has been approved by the
Department of Environmental Quality for large scale use in areas where normal septic
tank development is not feasible. It is not recommended as an alternative to septic tanks.
There is still room for additional development in the valley that could probably be served
with septic tanks, assuming that sufficient culinary water was available to support
additional development.

Roads:

All of the roadways in the Central town site plat, along with the recorded phases of the
Dixie Deer development, are county roads. The policy of the county is to maintain the
county roads in the same condition that they were developed by the developer. For this
reason, all of the roads in the valley are not maintained at the same standard. The county
will assist property owners to improve the roads in their particular area by assisting in the
creation of improvement districts to allow the roads to be brought to a higher standard
and paid for over a period of time, usually a ten year period.

In Phase II of the Dixie Deer development, there was no access provided from Phase I
into Phase II. There is a roadway that ends with a temporary cul-de-sac against the
National Forest boundary with the intent that it be extended inside the forest boundary to
an existing road in Phase I, thereby linking those two phases together. The General Plan
recommends that the county make contact with the forest service officials to identify the
feasibility of opening a roadway along the forest boundary to link these two phases of the
Dixie Deer development together. It needs to be done.

Little by little the Department of Transportation (UDOT) has been widening the State
Highway north from St. George. This improvement of the State Highway should
continue over time, until a four lane highway is developed from St. George to the Pine
Valley Road in the community of Central / Dixie Deer. From here is should continue to
be improved to the City of Enterprise. This is the same method that was used to improve
Highway 9 from the Interstate Freeway to the downtown area of the City of Hurricane. It
can be done a little at a time over a period of several years to achieve significant
improvement to the State Highway system in the county.

Fire Protection:

The Central / Dixie Deer community maintains a volunteer fire department. It is a part of
the North West Fire District. The department participates with the Washington County
Fire Chiefs association. The volunteer members of the department also participate in
training programs with the North West fire District.

The department is on call to assist with fires outside of the community area as may be
needed to assist fire departments elsewhere in the county. The department needs to
continue making improvements to meet the needs of the community.

Public Safety:

Police protection in the valley is provided by the Washington County Sheriff's Office.
This service will continue as long as they are continue to be an unincorporated part of
Washington County. Some communities in the county who desire greater protection
have contracted with the county for increased visibility of the sheriff's deputies in
exchange for additional funds being raised by the community.

Solid Waste:

The County Solid Waste Board is made up of one representative from each city or town
along with one member from the county. This committee oversees the collection of solid
waste in the county. There is a central landfill location which is owned by Washington
County and managed by the solid waste company. This site is expected to be sufficient
for many years to come. The system of management and oversight is also expected to
continue. Overall, the solid waste program in the county is recommended by the General
Plan and currently works very well. In addition to the land fill location, there are several
satellite collection sites in the county where waste and used materials can be disposed of.
One such facility is located in this community along the State Highway. The General
Plan recommends that this facility continue to be maintained for the residents in this part
of the county.

Building Inspection:

Building inspection for dwelling units and other types of building construction are
provided by the County Building Department. The cost of building permits is established
to defray the cost of inspection during the period of construction. Building permit fees in
the unincorporated communities are significantly less than found in most of the
incorporated cities and towns in the county.

Communication:

Most of Washington County is served by the CenturyLink communication company. In
addition to CenturyLink services, there are a number of private cellular companies
providing service within the county. None of these communication services were given
high ratings by the residents of the area. However, both CenturyLink and cellular services
were judged to generally be adequate. Improvements to communication services in the
community should continually be improved and upgraded when possible to do so.

Flood Control:

Flood control is not identified by residents as a major problem in the Central / Dixie Deer
community. The Santa Clara River runs through the easterly end of the community, and
except for some problems with the river crossing at times of high water, no other
problems have been identified in the General Plan.

Incorporation:

One final issue related to public services is the question of incorporation. Under Utah
State Law, a petition for incorporation must originate from the community that desires to
pursue this alternative. The General Plan suggests that incorporation is not a serious
question for this community. Further, there are no incorporated cities of towns near
enough that annexation would be a possibility.

The county feels that the government that is closest to the people is the best form of
government. The minimum number of residents required to request incorporation is 100
persons. The county does not oppose incorporation of a community. The county is not
promoting the incorporation of the unincorporated communities in the county, but would
lend support to whatever decision the community might make.
         WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY SURVEY ANALYSIS
                             FOR
           THE COMMUNITY OF CENTRAL AND DIXIE DEER
                          2010 - 2011

At a meeting held in Central / Dixie Deer Fire Station on August 10, 2010, it was
indicated that the county was going to prepare a General Plan for the community. A
questionnaire was filled out by those present and submitted by others. Following is a
brief analysis of the statistical information from the questionnaire.

1.     Residency:

       For those responding to the questionnaire, the length of time living in the
       community ranged from two years to twenty nine years, with an overall average
       of just over eleven years. Those attending the meeting and filling out the
       questionnaire were about equally divided between Central and Dixie Deer Estates.

       The average family size reported was slightly less than 2 persons per family. This
       number is significantly different than the county which has an average of about 3
       persons per family. The lower number in this community may indicate a high
       number of retired persons living here. All of those responding are home
       owners.

2.     Reasons for living in the Central / Dixie Deer area:

       The greatest reason given for living in this community is that is a quiet
       community. Other reasons receiving votes include a small town atmosphere, the
       desire for open space, a safe community, and being close to the mountains, etc.
       These are all similar reasons for living in this community. For a person wanting
       to move to a place having these ideals, coming to this community would be a
       perfect decision.

3.     Should the rural character be preserved?

       One hundred percent of those responding to the questionnaire support maintaining
       the rural character of this valley. Some suggestions were given as to how to
       maintain the rural character. Most of the methods given for controlling growth
       are simply to allow no new development. This would be very difficult to do if a
       property owner wants to develop their property and they are able to meet the
       county requirements. Water may be the most limiting factor to any extensive
       expansion.

4.     Should farmland be preserved?
     Over 95 % of the respondents said that farmland should be preserved with only a
     few feeling otherwise. The ways to do this were similar to those given for
     protecting the rural atmosphere of the community. It does need to be pointed out
     that the county is not in the development business. Development originates with
     some property owner selling their property to another person who wants to create
     a development.

     The county neither promotes development nor opposes development by
     persons who meet the current county subdivision ordinances. While the county is
     not promoting incorporation, the best way for a community to control their own
     destiny would be to incorporate.

5.   Would you favor developing a system of walking/bicycle trails throughout the
     community?

     Most of the residents indicated that they are not in favor of such a system. The
     traffic on the local streets in both Central and Dixie Deer are not high traffic
     roadways. Any of them can be used for walking or riding bicycles without
     creating a separate system of trails at no additional cost to the community.

6.   Mark on a scale of 1 to 5 your concerns on each of the following: Traffic, safety,
     street and road conditions, unsafe OHV use, street dedication, with 5 being the
     most concerned, 1 being the least concerned, and 0 meaning there is no perceived
     problem.

     The largest concern expressed is for speeding vehicles through the community.
     This could be on the internal roads, but likely is directed to the State Highway or
     to the highway leading to Pine Valley. Of the other concerns listed, none reach
     the level of being major concerns.

     Several of the concerns have a moderate amount of concern, but overall,
     residents seem to be satisfied with off-highway vehicles, road conditions, or
     unsafe OHV use. The least concern listed relates to road dedication. Most of the
     roads in the community are dedicated roadways so it is an easy item to draw the
     least amount of concern.

7.   Desired commercial or industrial business:

     The residents mostly listed "none" as the greatest need for business in the
     community. Most residents are quite satisfied with not having commercial or
     industrial business available close by.

8.   Where should commercial or industrial development be located?

     Enterprise, St. George, and Veyo were all listed as good locations for these
     uses to take place. These responses are very similar to the response found in most
      of the "west side" communities. Many in Veyo were also opposed to
      additional commercial development. Veyo, is located centrally between two
      communities to the south, three to the north, and one to the west. Veyo may
      become a center for business simply by location as much as by desire.

9.    Relate your experience with local services as they relate to your area:

      None of the services listed in the questionnaire received particularly high ratings.
      Water quality and service rated nearly 60 %, and telephone service and cellular
      services rated in the 50% level. For most other services the 40% ratio identified
      the level of satisfaction with most services.

      The lowest ratings were given to ambulance service, for which less was known
      about the level of service. Postal Service was also given a low rating with a
      number suggesting that they would like to have a post office in the community, or
      that the current location of mail boxes was somewhat of a safety hazard. There is
      not a likelihood of a new Post Office because of the cutbacks in postal service that
      are and will probably take place. By working with the Post Office, it may be
      possible to re-locate the existing boxes to a location away from the main highway
      to Pine Valley.

10.   Should the community consider providing recreation facilities?

      12.5 % of the residents indicated that recreation facilities would be desirable
      while over 70% of the residents indicated that none were needed.

11.   List services that could be provided?

      Several types of recreation, or other facilities were listed in the questionnaire.

12.   How can you best be informed about meetings?

      Posting at the mail boxes was the highest recommended location for posting
      notices. Word of mouth and posting at the fire station also received high votes.
      Mailing to residents is not a viable option because of the cost involved in sending
      individual notices to residents of the county.

13.   Did you participate in the Vision Dixie planning program?

      Over 90 % of the respondents to the questionnaire did not participate in this
      program. However there were a few community residents who did
      participate.

14.   There were no significant comments made relative to comments of participants in
      the Vision Dixie planning program.
15.   Final comments:

      Several citizens identified the unsafe condition of the old lodge as a danger to the
      community and a building that should be torn down. The lodge is privately
      owned and would need to be identified as a community hazard before the county
      could become involved.

      Many citizens identified the need for a roadway linking Phase I of Dixie Deer
      with Phase 2 of that development as being a significant need that should be
      looked at to see if there is any possibility of making such a connection. These
      were the major concerns in the community. Many citizens indicated that they
      liked the community as it is as a desirable place to live.
       WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY STATISTICAL SURVEY
                            FOR
            THE COMMUNITY OF CENTRAL / DIXIE DEER
                          2010-1011

On August 10, 2010 a community meeting was held at the Central Fire Station regarding
the development of a General Plan study for this community. Attendees were asked to
fill out a questionnaire relating to current conditions in the community. Additional copies
of the questionnaire could be submitted to the county planning department either in hard
copy or by the internet. Following is a summary of the statistics received by the county.

1.     Residency status:

       a.      How long have you lived in this area?         11.2 years average
       b.      Number in family:                              1.8 members’ average
       c.      Homeowners:                                  100.0 %
       d.      Land owners only:                              0.0 %

2.     Reasons for living in the Central/Dixie Deer Area:

       a.      Born or raised in the area                   12.5 %
       b.      Close to family, friends, or neighbors       29.1 %
       c.      Close to mountains, etc.                     75.0 %
       d.      Like open space                              87.5 %
       e.      Opportunity to keep animals                  20.8 %
       f.      Quiet community                              95.8 %
       g.      Recreation opportunities                     58.3 %
       h.      Safe community                               70.8 %
       i.      Small town atmosphere                        87.5 %
       j.      Other:         cool in summers, retirement, see stars, no lights

3.     Should the rural atmosphere be preserved?             Yes:     100 %           No: 0

       How should it be done?        Stop building, we don't require what cities require,
       approve no housing development on vacant or agricultural land, preserve the area
       and wildlife, don't change anything, don't overbuild the market, limit development
       or zone changes, don't overbuild the market

4.     Should farmland be preserved?                         95.8 %           4.1 %

       How should it be preserved?         Make no changes, limit county control, give
       farmers no impositions, have no new development, stop building, limit
       development or zone changes

5.     Would you favor developing a system of walking/bicycle trails throughout the
       community?          Yes - 12.5 %          No - 70.8 %
6.    Mark on a scale of 1 to 5 your concerns on each of the following: traffic, safety,
      street and road conditions, unsafe OHV use, and street dedication. 5 = most
      concerned, 1 = least concerned, 0 = no perceived problem

      a.     Off-highway vehicles on streets - 0 = 25.0 %, 5 = 33.3%, 4 = 16.6 %, 3 =
             12.5 %, 2 = 2.6 %
      b.     Speed/traffic control - 0 = 12.5 %, 5 = 76.4 %, 4 = 8.3 %, 3 = 12.5 %,
             1 = 12.5 %
      c.     Road conditions - 0 = 16.6 %, 5 = 41.6 %, 4 = 8.3 %, 3 = 16.6 %,
             2 = 20.8 %, 1 = 4.1 %
      d.     Unsafe OHV use - 0 = 16.6 %, 5 = 20.8 %, 4 = 16.6 %, 3 = 16.6 %,
      e.     Road dedication - 0 = 12.5 %, 5 = 16.6 %, 3 = 12.5 %, 1 = 12.5 %
      f.     Other:         Access Road between Dixie Deer #1 and #2, snow plowing
             has improved, the lodge needs to be torn down, and it is unsafe

7.    Desired Commercial or industrial business:

      None (50 %),

8.    Where should commercial or industrial development be located?

      Veyo, Enterprise, St. George, not in Central

9.    Relate your experience with local services as they relate to your area:

      a.     Ambulance - 0 = 29.1 %, 5 = 33.3 %, 4 = 12.5 %, 3 = 12.5 %, 2 = 4.1 %
      b.     Drinking water service and quality - 5 = 58.3 %, 4 = 16.6 %, 3 = 8.3 %,
             2 = 8.3 %
      c.     Electrical power - 5 = 41.6 %, 4 = 41.6 %, 3 = 12.5 %,
      d.     Fire protection - 0 = 8.3 %, 5 = 45.8 %, 4 = 20.0 %, 3 = 8.3 %, 1 = 4.1 %
      e.     Garbage collection - 5 = 45.8 %, 4 = 12.0 %, 3 = 12.5 %
      f.     Law enforcement - 0 = 16.6 %, 5 = 33.3 %, 4 = 16.6 %, 3 = 20.8 %,
             1 = 8.3 %
      g.     Postal service - 0 = 16.6 %, 5 = 29.1 %, 4 = 16.6 %, 2 = 4.1 %
      h.     School transportation - 0 = 41.6 %, 5 = 29.1 %, 4 = 16.6 %, 3 = 12.5 %,
             2 = 4.1 %
      i      Telephone service - 0 = 12.5 %, 5 = 50.0 %, 4 = 25.0 %, 3 = 8.3 %
      j.     Cellular service - 5 = 54.1 %, 4 = 20.8 %, 3 = 8.3 %1 = 4.1 %
      k.     Other services -        P. O. Boxes too close to road, maintain road
             conditions

10.   Should the community consider providing recreation facilities?       Yes - 12.5 %
             No - 70.8 %

11.   List services that could be provided:          Post Office, clubhouse, community
      building, park
12.   How can you be best informed about meetings?

      a.     Word of mouth                        54.1%
      b.     Posting at the fire station          50.0 %
      c.     Posting at a store                     4.1 %
      d.     At the mail boxes                    79.1 %
      e.     County web site                      33.3 %
      f.      Other:         E-mail, Mail to Ronnie & Kathy Vause, Mailing to
             residents

13.   Did you participate in the Vision Dixie planning program?            Yes - 8.3 %
      No - 91.6 %

14.   If you participated, - your comments:

      The width and directions scattered from participants.

15.   Final Comments:

      Grade roads more often, pave roads, tear down the old lodge, don't change
      anything, keep the residential area; it is good as it is, open a road between
      Phase I and Phase II.
