   THE GENERAL PLAN FOR
      CLIFF DWELLERS,
GRASSY MEADOWS SKY RANCH,
AND HURRICANE CLIFF ESTATES
          2010-2011




           Prepared by
      The Washington County
       Planning Department
                          THE GENERAL PLAN
                                 FOR
             CLIFF DWELLERS, GRASSY MEADOWS SKY RANCH,
                     AND HURRICANE CLIFF ESTATES
                              2010 - 2011

Introduction:

Cliff Dwellers, Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch, and Hurricane Cliff Estates are in an
unincorporated part of Washington County. Residents and others should take time to
review Section I of the County General Plan which discusses planning in general, the
basis for planning, and the purpose of planning. Many of the things mentioned in the
beginning of Section VII of the County General Plan are also relevant to the residents of
this part of the county. The General Plan provides guidelines for the future of this
particular part of the county in addition to those things that are applied county-wide in the
other sections of the General Plan.

The development in this part of the county came about over a number of years. Three
subdivision developments have been recorded in the area. These were the Grassy
Meadows Sky Ranch subdivision that was recorded in six phases beginning in August
1984, the Cliff Dwellers Subdivision that was recorded in two phases beginning in June
1993, and the Hurricane Cliff Estates subdivision recorded on October 1, 2004.

Recently, the City of Hurricane annexed county property south of the Hurricane City
Airport to Sand Hollow Reservoir and Eastward to the base of the Hurricane cliffs.
Except for a small connection of this community to land under the jurisdiction of the
Bureau of Land Management, the area of Cliff Dwellers, Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch,
and Hurricane Cliff Estates is now a peninsula almost completely surrounded by the City
of Hurricane. The residents of this community chose not to be annexed to Hurricane City
at that time, and therefore, is still a part of unincorporated Washington County.

Geography and Topography:

The Cliff Dwellers / Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch / Hurricane Cliffs community lies in a
long valley bounded on the East by the 1,000 foot high Hurricane Cliffs, and on the West
by lower rolling hills that lie between this valley and the Sand Hollow Reservoir. The
bottom of the valley is relatively flat but much of the development lies on the hills
sloping toward the West. The valley itself lies in the south-central part of Washington
County and extends nearly to the Arizona Border. One of the features of this area is the
location of a privately owned airport. This airport provided the basis for this community
in the very beginning. The airport landing strip is adjacent to building lots which allows
home owners to land their airplane and then taxi to a hanger which is a part of their
individual dwelling unit. This is the only facility of its kind anywhere in the county, or in
any surrounding area. It is unique to the Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch part of this
community.



                                             2
Even though the community is now nearly completely surrounded by a recent annexation
by the City of Hurricane, the area itself is located some 4-5 miles south of the center of
the City. There is little development between this area and central Hurricane.

Agricultural Development:

There is no agricultural land in the Cliff Dwellers / Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch /
Hurricane Cliff Estates development. There is some agricultural land north of this
community in the Bench Lake area. All of that area is now part of the City of Hurricane.
Hurricane resisted annexation of that particular area for many years because of the
collapsible soil conditions, but did annex all of the Bench Lake area.

Residential Development and Population Projections:

All of the land in this community, except for the private airplane runway, is of a
residential nature. Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch contains 6 phases, 96 lots, and an
airplane runway located on 193 acres of land. The Cliff Dwellers subdivision contains
2 phases, and 71 lots, is located on 142 acres of land. In addition, the Hurricane Cliffs
Subdivision contains 18 lots on 15 acres of land. These figures are shown in Table I
below:

                                        Table I
                                Residential Development

               Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch              96 lots         193 acres
               Cliff Dwellers                        71 lots         142 acres
               Hurricane Cliffs                      18 lots          15 acres

                                      Totals:       185 lots         350 acres

Located in these three subdivisions are approximately 114 homes and approximately 71
vacant lots. Over the past 10 years there have been 67 building permits issued in the
community. That includes 29 in Cliff Dwellers, 28 in Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch, and
10 in Hurricane Cliff Estates

If the current rate of growth, based on the number of building permits issued, continues
for the next ten years, there will be about 4 vacant lots remaining. Using these figures,
total build-out could take place in just over 10 years.

Using the average family size shown by the questionnaires submitted last year of 2
persons per dwelling unit, the current population of the area would be about 218 persons.

Using the number of building permits from the past 10 years, there has been an increase
in population of about 134 residents during that time period. Extending those same




                                             3
figures forward for the next ten years would show a population increase of an additional
134 persons for a 10 year projected total of 352 residents in the community.

One variable to these projections is the large parcel of vacant land that currently exists
within the community that is a part of Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch. Several years ago a
Master Plan for this area was approved by the county as a Planned Development. This
means that the current plan is the only thing approved to be built in the area. Because of
the changes in the economy over the past 4 or 5 years, it is most likely that the developers
of this property at some future time will approach the county to revise the current plan
that was approved, and make adjustments to it based upon current development trends.

To make any changes to the plan would require that the plan go back through the public
hearing process to amend the existing Planned Development Zone classification.
Residents of the area should be aware of this plan and be prepared to participate in public
hearings and meetings at such time as any changes are proposed to the current plan. For
the purpose of this General Plan, the land is shown as vacant / open space land, currently
undeveloped. The area of the plan contains some 750 acres of land which is
approximately double the amount of land currently developed. If fully developed, the
vacant land area could double the population of the presently developed land.

The other area which residents need to be aware of, and to monitor on a regular basis, is
the future development of land that is now in the City of Hurricane. One large
development was proposed in the county prior to annexation. Because of the current
economic condition, this plan was never pursued. It will likely resurface at some future
time in Hurricane City, and the residents of this community should be prepared to
respond to any development proposals through the City of Hurricane.

The long range future of this community lies in the hands of the City of Hurricane
whether or not the community ever becomes part of that city.

The Vision Dixie Summary:

According to the questionnaire circulated in the area, very few of the residents of this part
of the county participated in the Vision Dixie Planning project. The outgrowth of the
study and the recommendations made by the committee charged with reviewing the
material collected was a series of guidelines and politics aimed at guiding future growth
and development in the county. A summary of the Vision Dixie study, adopted by the
county and most of the incorporated cities and towns in the county is summarized for the
residents of this community. Many of the Vision Dixie principles have more application
in the incorporated areas than they do in the unincorporated areas that are currently
developed, but some of the principles also have application in the unincorporated
communities of the county.

1.     Plan regionally, implement locally - The General Plan for this area of the county
       is prepared for the residents of this area specifically, and it is also a part of the
       county-wide General Plan. This Plan deals with aspects of the future of this area



                                             4
     and may be amended or expanded from time to time as necessary, still dealing
     with the concerns of this area and not with the county at large.

2.    Maintain air and water quality, and conserve water - Air and water quality is
     currently very good. Water conservation is evident by the natural landscaping
     that is used in large measure by the residents of the community.   Culinary water
     was generally rated as good by the residents.

3.   Guard our signature landscapes -

     One of the attractions to development in this part of the county is the open space
     character of the area and the visual qualities that exist in all directions. The
     existence of a mineral (gravel) operation along the base of the Hurricane Cliffs is
     part of the visual field. The view of the cliffs which rise some 1,000 feet above
     the valley floor still provides an outstanding view shed for the community. There
     are currently no restrictions on the view in the other directions.

4.   Provide rich, connected natural recreation areas and open space - This community
     has historically been surrounded by natural recreations areas and open space. To
     the extent that this condition will continue into the future will be up to the
     development policies of the City of Hurricane in which City all of the surrounding
     land is now located. However, it should be pointed out that there is a large
     quantity of private land surrounding this area that will not under any conditions be
     developed over the short term. The development of all of the private land
     surrounding this area will require decades in order for there to be significant
     changes. Growth in Washington County is currently developing very slowly, and
     even if the rate of growth increased to approximate the high rate of the early
     2000's, it would require generations to fill in all of the land that was annexed by
     Hurricane City a few years ago.

5.   Build a balanced transportation system - This policy relates to circulation in the
     "urbanized" portions of the county. Currently only St. George City has a public
     transportation system that serves a portion of the city. This system does not
     extend to any of the adjacent cities to St. George City, and it could be years before
     public transportation regularly travels along the major corridors between Ivins and
     Springdale. Such a system is not likely to serve most of the unincorporated
     communities for many years into the future. There is nothing wrong with the
     policy except for a lack of funding, and the time it will take to see the system
     expanded throughout the county.

6.   Get centered by focusing on growth in walkable mixed use centers - This
     unincorporated community comes as close to being a walkable community as any
     other unincorporated community in the county. The development is very compact
     and is not spread out with large areas of no development between the various
     phases that have been developed.




                                           5
       It is a mixed use center in the fact that about half of the development is related to
       the airplane industry where home owners also own a hanger for their airplane, and
       about half of the residents are in typical single family homes. Where the Vision
       Dixie Plan refers to mixed use in terms of apartments, low or high rise residential
       mixed with typical single family development, the development in this area does
       not qualify. It was started as a single family development and that is how is has
       proceeded up to this point. Based upon the need for septic tanks for waste
       disposal, the mixed use plan identified in the Vision Dixie Plan would only have
       potential for use in areas where sewer systems are available.

7.     Direct growth inward - This is another policy where this community fits very well
       with the Vision Dixie Plan. There are no development gaps between the three
       different developments, and because of the Hurricane City annexation, there is no
       possibility of having phases of development separated from the current land use.
       Even the possible future development of the vacant land would fit with the Vision
       Dixie Plan in terms of keeping growth from spreading out away from the current
       growth pattern.

8.     Provide a broad range of housing types - This policy was mentioned above. It is
       not possible in any of the unincorporated communities in the county to have a
       mixture of housing types because of a lack of sewage service. Septic tanks, as a
       means of disposal, allow only typical single family homes. There will not be any
       other type of development in the existing land areas, and on the vacant land
       changes could take place if provision is made as a part of the development to
       install an on site treatment facility.

9.     Reserve areas for industry - This area of the county will never be an attractive site
       for industry. It is too far distant from major transportation routes i.e. the
       Interstate Freeway System. The area was never planned for industry and the only
       industries that could exist in the nearby area are the gravel operations against the
       Hurricane Cliffs. These developments can be considered as industry, but only for
       local consumption and not for long distance transportation to other population
       centers.

10.    Public land conversion - There is a connection from this development to land
       under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management. The BLM land will
       not be required for the future expansion of this community.

Commercial Development:

Commercial development is non-existent in this area of the county. The General Plan
cannot identify any area in the existing community for commercial use as suggested by
the Vision Dixie Plan. The General Plan does recommend that residents of the
community oppose any form of "strip commercial" development along the roadway
between here and the center of Hurricane City that may be proposed by developers on
land in the city



                                             6
Industrial development:

Industrial development has previously been discussed as one policy in the Vision Dixie
Plan. The area does not lend itself to industrial development, if for no other reason than
the distance from major transportation routes. There are mineral developments along the
base of the Hurricane Cliffs. These facilities are located from the Arizona border north to
the top of the Black Ridge. Unfortunately minerals are where you find them. These
particular minerals, (Gravel), are where they are, and they are becoming very hard to find
in most other areas of the county. In the western part of the county along the Utah Hill
area, most of the known deposits of gravel have been mined out. Washington County is
going to continue to grow and gravel is a basic mineral necessity to make that happen.

Public Services:

A section of the General Plan dealing with public services s they relate county-wide is
found at the beginning of this section, Section VII, of the County General Plan. Some
comments are stated I this part of the plan as they relate specifically to the area of Cliff
Dwellers / Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch / Hurricane Cliff Estates.

Electricity:

This community is provided with electrical power by the Dixie Rural Electric Association
who has the franchise to serve most of the area of the county lying south of the Virgin
River. This association has sufficient supply of power available to serve its customers for
many years into the future. At this time, their electrical rates are generally lower than
most of the existing city electrical systems or the Rocky Mountain Power Company.

Natural Gas:

There is natural gas service available in Washington County. There is a main line that
essential follows the I-15 Freeway and detours through Toquerville, LaVerkin, and
Hurricane, and then continues to St. George. Another line comes through Enterprise and
follows State Highway 18 to St. George. Unfortunately, unless a community is located
along one of those main natural gas lines, natural gas is not available. That situation
affects this area and the Gunlock area. Many of the unincorporated communities are
along State Highway 18, and except for the cost of a pressure reducing valve, could have
natural gas in their communities.

Water:

The water system for this area was originally developed by Mr. Longley as a part of the
development of the community. The downturn in the economy has caused most
development to be placed on hold. This caused the developer to sell the water company
to the Washington County Water Conservancy District. They have the ability and
capacity to supply water to the community well into the future.



                                              7
Sewage Disposal:
This public service has been previously discussed in this plan in relation to residential
development and the growth and development of the area. Presently the residents are
served by septic tanks as the means of liquid disposal.

One improvement that could be made to septic tanks would be to have the tanks
inspected on an annual basis to determine their continued ability to provide the service
for which they were installed. If they were inspected regularly and pumped as often as
necessary for good maintenance, they should continue to serve the needs of the area well
into the future. An inspection and maintenance system could alleviate this potential
concern. The General Plan would recommend that a maintenance system in the area be
considered for the area at some time in the future. The current number of dwellings may
not be sufficient at present to make this a viable option.

Roads:

The greatest concern about roads in the area is the concern about the road identified as
700 West in Hurricane and the Sky Ranch development. It has been a concern since the
Sky Ranch development was completed. Because of the size of the development, and
because Sky Ranch was a "leap frog" development several miles from the nearest
development, the county became responsible for the upgrading of the road between
Hurricane City and Sky Ranch, which the county was never able to do.

The only significant change between then and now is the fact that Hurricane City has
annexed all of the land between what was the former city limit and the development that
has taken place in the Sky Ranch area. Whether Hurricane can do what the county was
never able to do, and improve the roadway going south out of the former city limit to the
Sky Ranch area remains to be seen. If other development comes to the area, the cost of
road improvements outside of any new subdivision should be a part of the approval of the
project.

Fire Protection:

The Cliff Dwellers / Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch / Hurricane Cliff Estates area is a part
of the Hurricane Valley Fire District. In reality, fire protection services come from the
City of Hurricane inasmuch as they have the fire protection services that are the closest to
this valley. La Verkin and Toquerville are both a part of the Hurricane Valley Fire
District, but their fire protection services are too far away from this community to
provide a valid service.

There is currently discussion relative to dissolving the Fire District after the end of 2011.
If that should happen, it is likely that the City of Hurricane would again be responsible
for fires in this community. Under Utah State Law, if a city is providing city services to
an unincorporated area adjacent to their city, they could initiate annexation of the area to
which they provide services and bring them into the city whether the unincorporated area
wanted to be a part of the city or not. Under the currently undecided situation relative to



                                              8
the future of the Hurricane Valley Fire District, the General Plan recommends that no
change take place and that the existing Fire District continue to provide service to the
unincorporated areas within their boundary which includes this and other parts of the
county.

Solid Waste:

The community, as an unincorporated part of the county, participates in the Washington
County Solid Waste District. Pickup of waste in this area is collected in the same manner
as it is in the various areas throughout the county. The county solid waste board is made
up of one representative from each city or town along with one member from the county.
This committee oversees the collection of solid waste in the county. There is a central
landfill location which is owned by Washington County and managed by the solid waste
collection agency. This site is expected to be sufficient for many years to come. Overall,
the solid waste program in the county is recommended by the General Plan and currently
works very well. In addition to the landfill location and the door-to-door collection there
are some satellite collection sites in various places in the county where waste materials
can be disposed of.

Building Inspection:

Building inspection for dwelling units and other types of building construction are
provided by the County Building Department. The cost of building permits is established
to defray the cost of inspection during the period of construction. Building permit fees in
the unincorporated communities are significantly less than are found in most of the
incorporated cities and towns in the county.

Communication:

Most of Washington County is served by the CenturyLink communication company. In
addition to CenturyLink services, there are a number of private cellular companies
providing service within the county. The CenturyLink telephone system was generally
rated as acceptable in the citizen questionnaire, but none of the cellular communication
services were given acceptable ratings. Over time, cellular services will likely continue
to improve.

Flood Control:

Flood control is not identified by residents as a major problem in the Cliff Dwellers and
Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch Community. There are no major water courses in this area
and no other significant problems have been identified in the General Plan.

Incorporation / Annexation:

One final issue related to public services is the question of incorporation. Under Utah
State Law, a petition for incorporate must originate from the community that desires to



                                             9
pursue this alternatives. The General Plan suggests that even if the number of residents
would approve incorporation of this area, being isolated from commercial or industrial
services to support a tax base, the residential development in this community would make
it difficult to support a self-contained community.

A further problem with incorporation in this area is the fact that the City of Hurricane,
through recent annexation, literally surrounds the community. Up to this point the
community has declined to annex into the City of Hurricane, and can continue to do so.
The county will support the community in whatever decisions that they might make now,
or in the future, relative to this issue. The county would support annexation, and the
county will continue to support the community being unincorporated. Whether to annex
or not is a local decision. The community should be aware that the vacant land in the Sky
Ranch area could someday develop; it is possible that the assessed value of the vacant
area could exceed the value of the currently developed area. In this case the vacant area
residents could request annexation to Hurricane City and bring the current community
into the city whether they wanted to be part of the city or not. That situation is many
years into the future because of the time it would take the current vacant land to reach a
"build-out" condition.




                                           10
               WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY ANALYSIS
                                 FOR
                  THE COMMUNITY OF CLIFF DWELLERS
                     GRASSY MEADOWS SKY RANCH,
                    AND HURRICANE CLIFF ESTATES
                              2010 - 2011

In September of 2010 staff members of the County Planning Department met with
citizens of the area of Cliff Dwellers / Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch / Hurricane Cliff
Estates. Questionnaires were completed by those attending with others submitting a
response to the county planning department over the internet

Following is a summary of the questions and the comments that were responded to by
those filling out the questionnaire.

Residency and family size:

The average resident of the Cliff Dweller / Grassy Meadow Sky Ranch / Hurricane Cliff
Estates community has lived in the area for an average of almost 6 years. There were
several long time residents participating, but also quite a few newcomers to the area.

No one who filled out the questionnaire indicated a family size larger than two. This
would indicate that the entire community would fall into the retirement category which is
probably not completely correct. However, the questionnaire did not ask any questions
relative to age. Whether or not most of those attending the meeting were retired is
unknown.

There were a number of reasons given for living in the area. The highest number of
benefits mentioned were liking the open space and having a quiet community. These two
categories each received 100 % of the answers to the question of why they liked the area.
The fact that it is a safe community and the community is close to the mountains rated
almost as high as the other two reasons given.

Other reasons for liking the area included having a private airport, and an airport that was
attached to their dwelling. The views around the area were mentioned, and the dark sky
at night was also mentioned as an attraction to the area.

Should the rural area be preserved?

All of those responding to the questionnaire would like to preserve the rural atmosphere.
Maintaining large lot sizes, buying land for non-development were given as ways to
maintain the rural atmosphere. The county is not in a position to buy up land to prevent
development. This has been suggested in other communities in the county. There are,
however, various groups that do buy up development rights. This suggestion could be
pursued by residents of the area as a possibility in preventing additional development.



                                            11
Limiting development, no commercial developments, don’t build, and do not annex, are
recommendations that could happen, but of which the county is not involved. Only
existing land owners could make those decisions.

Should farm land be preserved?

Nearly all residents filling out the questionnaire were in favor of preserving farm land.
On the other hand, there is no farm land in the community. In the case of this particular
community, all agricultural land has been annexed to the City of Hurricane. Some of the
suggestions for preserving the land are good suggestions but, in the case of this
community, no longer have application. Incentives for farmers including green belt
designations, and farmland protection designation can give protection to farmers. Co-op
farming is a good idea if it can be implemented on existing, privately owned farmland.

A suggestion was made to do away with the current elected county commission and
planning commission. However, having no government in the area is not a viable
solution to maintaining farm land. There is no place within this country were no
government is acceptable. That suggestion relative to the area being under the
jurisdiction of the county would suggest that perhaps the area should be annexed into the
City of Hurricane rather than remaining as an unincorporated part of the county.
Certainly, that is an option open to the residents of the community at any point of time
that the majority of the residents petition the City of Hurricane for annexation. It is not a
decision for the county to make. This suggestion has nothing to do with farmland.

Walking and bicycle trails:

Over 90% of the respondents were in favor of developing walking or bicycle trails in the
community. Except for such things on existing roadways, such a system does not exist in
the community. At such time as the vacant land in the community is proposed for
development it would be a good time to recommend that a system of walking or bicycle
trails is included in all new development. There is still more vacant land in the
community than there is land that is currently developed. A good system of trails in the
undeveloped land, as it develops, could be an asset to current as well as future residents
of the area.

Concerns about traffic safety, street and road conditions, unsafe OHV use, and street
dedication:

Of the above conditions, only one of these, road improvements, was rated at a high level
of concern by residents. Speeding received some concern by residents and most of the
other areas listed were rated relatively low levels of concern.

Most of the concern about road improvements has to do with the condition of the
roadway between Hurricane City, from south of the airport to Sky Ranch. That has been
a problem for years and has received minimal improvement. The road is now a part of




                                             12
the City of Hurricane and all petitions for improvement of the road beyond the current
condition would need to be submitted to Hurricane City.

What should have happened and didn't, would have been to require the developer of
Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch to improve the road into Hurricane inasmuch as the Sky
Ranch development was essentially a "leap frog" development which should be
discouraged in community development. Because Hurricane City did not want to annex
the development when it was proposed because it was so far from the improvements in
the city, the county should have turned it down for the same reason until it became a
natural expansion of Hurricane City. Because this was not done, and the county
approved the subdivision, the condition of the connecting roadway has been a topic of
concern since the subdivision was first approved. It will continue to be a problem until
such time as development in the City of Hurricane extends along that roadway and meets
up with the development near Sky Ranch. Should the proposed development adjacent to
Sky Ranch, Cliff Dwellers, and Hurricane Cliff Estates again be pursued, the position of
the residents of this development should be to oppose such development unless the road
is improved as a condition of development to avoid additional "leap frog" development
on the part of Hurricane City. The situation has not changed. Only the jurisdiction under
which it will be developed is different.

Desired commercial or industrial business:

The majority of residents responding to the questionnaire would prefer that no
commercial or industrial development take place in this area. The existing business and
industrial areas of Hurricane City were the areas proposed for continued development.

Public services:

A number of public services in the valley were identified with a response as to concerns
that may exist with the various services provided.

There were no particularly high ratings. The highest rating was one of no concern
relative to school bus transportation which simply indicates that most family's are not
involved with school age children. Some ratings were in the 50 % range such as garbage
collection and electric power. Lower ratings were given to fire protection, law
enforcement, telephone and cell phone service, indicating that there is significant room
for improvement in those areas of service.

There were other public services that were mentioned with which some citizens were
concerned. These included mosquito spraying, animal control, and obtaining fiber optic
and cable services. Two of these issues would involve county participation. The others
would involve private business which usually responds when it appears to be
economically feasible to do so.

Should the area provide recreation facilities?




                                             13
Half of the residents indicated that the area should not provide recreation services. A
smaller proportion of residents felt that some recreational facilities would be useful.
These included a desire for an indoor aquatic center, park, an outdoor theater for
performing art programs in the area, and an astronomy observatory.

How can you best be informed about public meetings?

Placing information on the county web site was the most recommended source of
information indicated by residents. This form of information is already being done.
Other methods receiving significant support included placing notice on the mail boxes,
and to a lesser degree, by word of mouth. Other suggestions included public radio and
direct mail which on a county wide basis is not economically feasible for use in the entire
unincorporated area of the county.

The Vision Dixie planning program of some years go was not participated in by most
respondents to the questionnaire. Only a very small number of residents were involved.
The comments from the participants included preservation of the natural and visual
resources of the area which can be done in large measure because of the undeveloped
public land in close proximity to the community.

Final Comments:

A few final comments were made to the questionnaire which included keeping the dark
sky, having minimal lighting, fiber optic service instead of cellular towers, no annexation
into Hurricane City, and road maintenance (which was discussed under public services
above).




                                            14
                WASHINGTON COUNTY STATISTICAL SURVEY
                                 FOR
                  THE COMMUNITY OF CLIFF DWELLERS,
                     GRASSY MEADOWS SKY RANCH,
                      AND HURRICNE CLIFF ESTATES
                              2010 - 2011

In September 2010, a meeting was held at the Hurricane City Library regarding the
development of a General Plan study for this unincorporated community area of
Washington County. Attendees were asked to respond to a questionnaire related to the
current conditions in the area. Additional copies could be submitted to the county
planning department either in hard copy or over the internet. Following is a summary of
the questionnaires received by the county.

1.     Residency:

       a.     How long have you lived in the area?           5.75 years
       b.     Number in family:                              2.0
       c.     Homeowner:                                   100 %

2.     Reasons for living in this area:

       a.     Born or raised in the area
       b.     Close to family, friends, or neighbors       25.0 %
       c.     Close to maintains, etc.                     91.6 %
       d.     Like open space                             100.0 %
       e.     Opportunity to keep animals                  58.3 %
       f.     Quiet community                             100.0 %
       g.     Recreation opportunities                     58.3 %
       h.     Safe community                               91.6 %
       i.     Small town atmosphere                       100.0
       j.     Other:         Private airport with home access, views, (before cell
                             tower), dark sky, airport

3.     Should the rural atmosphere be preserved?

       Yes:   100.0 %                                        No:

       How should it be done?         Limit lot sizes, no lots less than one acre, buy land
       for non development, limit development, keep the area green, no commercial,
       keep low density, don't build, do not annex

4.     Should farmland be preserved?

       Yes:   66.6 %                          No:



                                            15
     How should it be done?          Create community co-op's, have no building on
     collapsible soil, give incentives for farmers, zone for agriculture only, remove all
     county commission and planning commission members

5.   Would you favor developing a system of walking / bicycle trails throughout the
     community?

     Yes:   91.6 %                                 No:     33.3 %

6.   Mark on a scale of 1 to 5 your concerns on each of the following: Traffic, safety,
     road conditions, unsafe OHV use, road dedication. 5 = most concerned, 1 - least
     concerned, 0 = no perceived problem.

     a.     Off highway vehicles on streets - 0 = 8.3 %, 5 = 25.0 %, 4 = 16.6 %,
            3 = 16.6 %, 2 = 16.5 %, 1 = 8.3 %
     b.     Speed and traffic control - 0 = 25.0 %, 5 = 41.6 %, 3 = 8.3 %, 1 = 8.3 %
     c.     Road conditions - 5 = 66.6 %, 4 = 25.0 %
     d.     Unsafe OHV use - 0 = 8.3 %, 5 = 33.3 %, 4 = 16.5 %, 3 = 16.5 %,
            2 = 8.3 %
     e.     Road Dedication - 0 = 16.5 %, 5 = 16.5 %, 3 = 16.5 %, 1 = 16.5 %
     f.     Other: Road maintenance to Hurricane is poor, leave roads as they are,
            re-cycle, no gravel pits in residential areas

7.   Desired commercial or industrial business:

     None (50.0 % of respondents), current services are adequate, allow no building on
     collapsible soils, give incentives to farmers, zone areas for agriculture only

8.   Where should commercial or industry be located?

     Hurricane (25.0 %), in town, none, existing commercial and industrial sites are
     okay, in industrial parks

9.   Rate on a scale of 1 to 5 your perception or experience with the following local
     services as they relate to the area. Excellent = 5, Poor = 1, No experience = 0

     a.     Ambulance - 0 = 25.0 %, 4 = 16.6 %, 3 = 33.3 %,
            2 = 8.3 %, 1 = 8.3 %
     b.     Drinking water quality and service - 5 = 16.6 %, 4 = 25.0 %, 3 = 33.3 %,
            1 = 8.3 %
     c.     Electric power - 5 = 41.6 %, 4 = 41.6 %, 2 = 8.3 %
     d.     Fire protection - 0 = 25.0 %, 5 = 16.6 %, 4 = 16.6 %, 3 = 16.6 %,
            1 = 16.6
     e.     Garbage collection - 5 = 41.6 %, 4 = 41.6 %, 2 = 8.3 %
     f.     Law enforcement - 5 = 16.6 %, 4 = 25.0 %, 3 = 8.3 %,



                                          16
             2 = 16.6 %, 1 = 16.6 %
      g.     Postal service - 5 = 41.6 %, 4 = 33.3 %, 3 = 8.3 %, 2 = 8.3 %
      h.     School transportation - 0 = 58.3 %, 5 = 25.0 %, 1 = 8.3 %
      i.     Telephone service - 0 = 8.3 %, 5 = 33.3 %, 4 = 33.3 %, 2 = 16.6 %
      j.     Cellular service - 0 = 8.3 %, 5 = 8.3 %, 2 = 33.3 %, 1 = 41.6 %
      k.     Other services: Internet limited, vendors, animal control officer,
                                mosquito abatement, fiber optic cable

10.   Should the community consider providing recreation facilities?

      Yes - 25.0 %                          No - 50 %

11.   List any services that you feel should be provided:

      An indoor pool, aquatic center, an observatory, ampi-theater for performing arts,
      park, trails,

12.   How can you best be informed about meetings?

      a.     Word of mouth - 25.0 %
      b.     Posting at a fire station -
      c.     Posting at a store - 8.3 %
      d.     At the mail boxes - 58.3 %
      e.     On the county web site - 83.3 %
      f.     Other - 16.6 % - direct mail, public radio, E-mail

13.   Did you participate in the Vision Dixie Planning program?

      Yes    8.3 %                          No 91.6 %

14.   Your comments, if you participated:

      Preserve the environment, preserve visual resources

15.   Final comments:

      No high density construction nearby, keep the dark sky, minimal lighting, road
      maintenance is a major concern, fiber optic service and not cell towers, no
      annexation, upgraded roads




                                          17
