     AMENDED AUGUST 2012


   THE GENERAL PLAN
          OF
WASHINGTON COUNTY, UTAH
         2010
 Acknowledgments

Washington County Board of Commissioners
   Jim Eardley, Chairman
   Alan Gardner
   Denny Drake

   Dean Cox, Administrator

Washington County Planning Commission
   Mike Stucki, Chairman
   Kim Ford, Vice Chairman
   Dave Everett
   Debora Christopher
   Joan Balen
   Doug W ilson
   Julie Cropper
   Rick Jones, Alternate



Washington County Public Works Department
   Ron Whitehead, Director
   John C. W illie, Senior Planner
   Todd Edwards, Engineer
   Deon Goheen, Planning and Zoning Administrator
   Doreen Bowers Irons, Planning Technician
   Nancy Lucchetti, GIS Specialist


   James Crisp, Consultant, Southern Utah University
 T a b l e o f Co n t e n t s


Se c tio n I:
   Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
      Background and History...…………………………………… 2
      The Basis for Planning ……………………………………….. 3
      The Master Plan and Action ……………………………….. 4
      Other vehicles of implementation take the form of
       Ordinances ………………………………………………….. 5
                         The Zoning, or Land Use Ordinance ………..    5
                         The Subdivision Ordinance ……………………         5
                         Field Trips ……………………………………….               5
                         News Coverage...……………………………….              5
                         Interpreting the Plan ……………………………          5
                         Land Use Areas …………………………………               6
                         Public Facilities ………………………………….           6
      A Look Back, and a Look Into the Future ……………….. 6


Section II:
   General Information regarding Public Lands in
    Washington County. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
      The Bureau of Land Management…………………………. 8
      The National Forest ………………………………………… 9
      The National Park …………………………………………… 9
      Institutional and Trust Lands Administration…………….. 10
      Impact of Public Lands………………………………………. 10
      Historical Background……………………………………….. 11
      The Washington County Land Bill…………………………. 13
      Historic Sites …………………………………………………. 15
                          Ghost Towns …………………………………….               15
                          Cemeteries ……………………………………….               17
                          Scenic Byways …………………………………..             18
                          Other important historic sites ………………..   18

Section III:
   The Bureau of Land Management . . . . . . . . . 20
      General ………………………………………………………. 20
      Transportation ………………………………………………. 21
                      Major Arterial Highways ………………………             22
                      Collector Roads ………………………………..                26
                      Special Purpose Roads …………………………              26
                      Roads Not Otherwise Classified ……………..        26
     Financing for road construction and maintenance ……….    27
     RS2477 Roads ……………………………………………….                        27
     Utility Corridors ……………………………………………....                 28
     Trails …………………………………………………………..                         29
     Other Areas of Needed Cooperation and Coordination ..   30
     Fire Management …………………………………………….                      35


Section IV:
  The National Forest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
     General ………………………………………………………. 37
     Transportation ………………………………………………. 38
     The General Plan contains the following road maps …… 38
     Wilderness ……………………………………………………. 39
     Vegetative, Hydrological, and Geological Features ……. 39
     Wildlife ……………………………………………………….. 40
     Recreation…………………………………………………….. 40
     Historic Sites …………………………………………………. 41
     Management Challenges ……………………………………. 41
     Demographics ………………………………………………… 42
     Water ………………………………………………………….. 42
     Minerals ……………………………………………………….. 42
     Fire and Fuels ………………………………………………… 43
     Threatened and Endangered Species ……………………… 43
     Rangeland and Grazing Management …………………….. 43



Section V:
  Zion National Park . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44


Section VI:
  School and Institutional Trust Lands . . . . . . . 48
     Background …………………………………………………… 48
     Current Land Use ……………………………………………. 48
     Planning for the Future ……………………………………… 49


Section VII:
  General Information regarding Private Lands In
  Washington County . . . . . . . . . . . 51
     Introduction …………………………………………………. 51
     General Public Service Information ………………………. 52
     Water Development ………………………………………… 52
     Liquid Waste Disposal ………………………………………. 55
     Electrical Power ……………………………………………… 56
     Solid Waste ………………………………………………….. 57
     Roads …………………………………………………………. 57
     Police Protection ……………………………………………. 58
     Fire Protection ………………………………………………. 58
     Telephone and Cell Phone Service ……………………….. 62
     Internet Service ……………………………………………… 63
     Schools ……………………………………………………….. 63
     Parks and Recreation ……………………………………….. 63
     Flood Plains and River Bottoms …………………………… 64
     Air Travel ……………………………………………………. 64
     Agricultural Development …………………………………. 65
     Residential Development …………………………………… 65
     Affordable Housing …………………………………………. 66
     Annexation …………………………………………………… 70
     New Development Areas Identified ………………………. 71
     Housing ……………………………………………………….. 71
     Commercial Development ………………………………….. 72
     Industrial Development ……………………………………… 73
  Community Plans . . . . . . . . . . 73
     Brookside / Pine Valley Mountain Farms …………………. 74
     Central / Dixie Deer Estates …………………………………. 91
     Cliffdwellers /Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch / Hurricane
       Cliff Estates …………………………………………………. 108
     Dammeron Valley ……………………………………………. 123
     Diamond Valley ………………………………………………. 139
     East Enterprise ………………………………………………... 153
     Gunlock ……………………………………………………….. 166
     Harmony Valley ……………………………………………… 181
     Kolob Area …………………………………………………… 205
     Addendum to Pine Valley …………………………………. 219
     Pine Valley 2003 …………………………………………… 228
     Pintura – 1-15 Freeway Corridor …………………………          246
     Veyo ………………………………………………………….. 254
     Winchester Hills ……………………………………………… 273


MAPS: . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287
  Washington County General Plan
  Transportation / Major Arterial and Collector Roads
  Transportation / Motorized Off Road Vehicle Roads
  Transportation / Special Use Roads
  Transportation / Non-Motorized Trails
  Wild and Scenic Rivers
 *Current and Future Utility Routes
 Community General Plan Maps:
      Brookside / Pine Valley Mountain Farms
      Central / Dixie Deer
      Cliffdwellers / Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch /
          Hurricane Cliff Estates
      Dammeron Valley
      Diamond Valley
      East Enterprise
      Gunlock
      Harmony Valley
      Kolob
      Pine Valley
      Pintura / I-15 Freeway Corridor
      Veyo
      Winchester Hills

Appendix I:
    General Analysis Of Each Wilderness Area . . 288
      Black Ridge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     290
      Beartrap Canyon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         292
      Canaan Mountain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         294
      Cottonwood Canyon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           297
      Cottonwood Canyon Forest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              299
      Cougar Canyon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       301
      Deep Creek . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      303
      Deep Creek North . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        305
      Docs Pass . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   307
      Goose Creek Canyon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          309
      LaVerkin Creek Canyon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       311
      Red Butte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   313
      Red Mountain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        315
      Slaughter Creek . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       317
      Taylor Creek . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      318



Appendix II:
    Omnibus Land Bill of 2009 “Subtitle O” – Washington
    County, Utah (Congress passed April 2009) . . 320

Appendix III:
    The Washington County Resource Management Plan
      - (adopted August 2009) . . . . . . . . 356
                                                     W a s h i n g t o n Co u n t y
                                                     General Plan of 2010



Section I.

Introduction:
The preparation of this Plan is neither a beginning nor an end to planning in Washington County.
Rather, it is a step to coordinate and extend the excellent work that has been done in the past and
to help in avoiding some of the pitfalls that uncoordinated policies and ordinances leave open.

Planning has already been done in this area by many public agencies relative to the land over
which they hold jurisdiction. The National Forest, Bureau of Land Management, National Park
Service, School and Institutional Trust Lands Administration, and Shivwits Reservation all have
plans for their respective land holdings which represent some 85.5% of the land area in the
county. These plans must be related to, and coordinated with, the future development of the
remaining 16.5 % of the privately held land.

Planning in Washington County actually began with the first pioneer settlers being sent to this
area for colonization, and the laying out of many of the original settlements in the county.
Washington County was originally created by the territorial legislature of Utah on February 3,
1852. Soon thereafter, the first settlement was created at Fort Harmony, which also became the
first county seat of Washington County.

In 1964 the County Commission organized a group of citizens to address various conditions in
the county and to give their recommendations relative to existing land use and future growth, in
such areas as residential and commercial development, industrial growth, agriculture, open
space, recreation, roads and highways, etc. It is interesting to compare their recommendations
with the comments from Vision Dixie and to see the similarities between the two studies
separated by over 40 years of time.

In 1970, the County hired a consulting firm from Salt Lake City, Planning & Research
Associates, to prepare the first formal “Master Plan” for the county. (Since changed by the
legislature to General Plan) This planning study involved several parts, including two reports,”
                                                 1
Population and Economic Study,” and “Planning Goals and Policies,” both of which were a part
of the Master Plan, in addition to the Master Plan report itself.

In 1997, a study was undertaken by the county called “A Coordinated Plan for the Urbanizing
Areas of Washington County.” This study was also adopted as a part of the county General Plan.
It basically combined all of the General Plans of the cities and towns in the lower part of
Washington County, along with a discussion of the various planning facets of these combined
plans. Jeff Winston and Associates from Colorado, was retained to oversee this planning project.

In 2006, the same consultant was retained to help undertake a planning project called Vision
Dixie. This effort brought together a large number of the citizens of the county to identify the
various concerns that they had relative to future planning in the county and to make
recommendations as to how they would like to see things develop in the future. This report
included a comprehensive economic and housing study done by “Strategic Planning Group,
Inc.,” from Jacksonville, Florida.

When it was completed, the Vision Dixie report was adopted by the county, essentially making it
a part of the county General Plan. A summary of the Vision Dixie principles is included in the
section of the General Plan adopted in 2009. Most of the cities and towns in the county have
also adopted these development principles. Because they represent, in large measure, the
customs and culture of the county, they are not that much different from goals and policies
adopted in 1964 and again in 1971. Things that are important to people do not change in spite of
dramatic changes in population. The things that brought people to Washington County years ago
are still many of the same things that bring them here today. The challenge is to develop the
General Plan in such a manner that it will continue to make Washington County a desirable place
to live for years into the future by protecting the same customs and culture that has historically
brought people to this part of Utah.

Background and History:

Located in the southwest corner of the State of Utah, Washington County - also known as Utah’s
Dixie - has a low altitude, and a warm, dry climate. Its scenic resources make it attractive to
visitors and travelers using the highways and freeways through the area. Zion National Park’s
spectacular scenery was formed by the Virgin River; a part of the Colorado River Basin, Snow
Canyon, with its beautiful Redrock canyon was part of Dixie State Park. While the first
settlement of Washington County was at Fort Harmony, the earliest pioneers were sent to the
area by Brigham Young to grow cotton for the territory. The first experimental crop was planted
in the spring of 1855. Two years later, the town of Washington was established, and the only
cotton mill in the northern states, or territories, was established. The “cotton mission” was
strengthened by the arrival in 1861 of 300 families led by George A. Smith and Erastus Snow,
two important leaders of the Latter-Day-Saints, or “Mormon” Church. The city of St. George,
now the county seat, was named after George A. Smith. A number of pioneer buildings still
stand throughout the region, and have been restored including the Opera House, Art Museum,
the Pioneer Museum, and a number of pioneer homes.


                                                 2
The growth of the county has been reflected in the development of its educational institutions.
The first schools were in wagon boxes before houses were begun. Four regional schools were
built with the first at the town of Virgin. In 1901 a central school was built offering two years of
high school. The St. George Stake Academy was founded in 1911 and originally included only
one building. That institution has grown into Dixie State College, located on the site of the
original wagon settlement of St. George. It is a State College offering a number of four-year
degrees with the potential of much further growth and expansion in the future.

The School District now maintains 7 high schools, with many other schools constructed to house
various groups of lower grades. The Washington County School District is one of the larger
school districts in the State. Education is only one example of the extent to which growth and
development has taken place in the county since its early days.

The gradual improvement of roads has been another index on Washington County’s growth.
Early roads took courage to use and imagination to find. One mile-long stretch through deep
sand was maintained for a time as a toll road. Gullies were so bad in places that wagons had to
be lowered piecemeal, and then raised over cliffs by ropes. The maintenance of existing roads is
still an important part of development in the county. With the completion of the Interstate 15
Freeway in 1973, the St. George Valley has been on the main route connecting cities from the
north and east to the Los Angeles basin. It is a major transportation route in this part of the
United States.

Washington County has a great degree of variation in its physical geography. In the lower
reaches of the Beaver Dam Wash, the elevation is only about 2,000 feet above sea level. In the
north-central part of the county, the Pine Valley Mountains reach heights in excess of 10,000 feet
in elevation. As a result of these extremes, the climate in the county also has some rather
extreme temperature changes from one season to another. Many of the higher elevations are a
part of the Colorado Plateau while the lower areas are associated with the Mojave Desert.

Therefore, the development of the General Plan for the county must take into account the
differences in land forms ranging all the way from wilderness areas in some parts of the county
to complex urban centers in other areas where schools, parks, shopping centers, industrial parks,
and places for people to live are mixed closely together. For example, from Springdale on the
east to Ivins on the west, Washington County is almost completely one contiguous incorporated
area, even though it is made up of many incorporated cities and towns, each one with its own
individual character and physical makeup. The county policy for at least the past forty years has
been to encourage development, wherever possible, to take place in one of the cities or towns
where public services are available for development. This policy, overall, has been very
successful. Washington County has never been in a position to compete with cities and towns to
provide urban services. That policy continues in large measure today.

The Basis For Planning:

The basis for this update of the General Plan is contained in the many plans and studies that have
taken place over the years previous to this time, both on the County level, and by other agencies

                                                 3
both public and private. It is impossible to adequately address all of this information in the
update of the General Plan, though most of it has been reviewed and considered in the
development of this 2010 update. Students of planning are invited and encouraged to familiarize
themselves with the contents of these reports and studies inasmuch as they do provide much of
the basis for the information presented herein.

Technical authority for developing a General Plan comes from enabling legislation passed by the
Utah State Legislature and included in Article 17-27a of the Utah Code which states in part, “It
shall be the function of a County Planning Commission to make and adopt a General Plan for the
physical development of the unincorporated territory of the county.” This effort has been going
on for many years.

Later planning brought the development of implementing ordinances to bring about the
recommendations of the General Plan including such ordinances as the Zoning, or Land Use
Ordinance as it is now called, a Subdivision Ordinance, special ordinances to guide special types
of development such as steep hillsides, or unstable soils, flood plain or flood control ordinances,
plus land management plans of the federal agencies, all having a bearing on what happens to
development in Washington County. All of these plans and ordinances must be related to and
coordinated with the overall General Plan for Washington County.

The General Plan is a guide for orderly development. It attempts to organize and coordinate the
relationship between land, resources, people and facilities to protect the health, safety, and
welfare of the residents of the county. It sets the direction for growth and change. The General
Plan expresses in written words what the county wants to look like in the future, and it
establishes policies for achieving those goals. It should be studied, reviewed and modified as
warranted by new trends and new ideas and conditions. However, the plan must be more than an
empty gesture as viewed by the people of the county. It is a statement of public policy and must
be adhered to until there is shown a viable reason for modification or change. Because the plan
is flexible does not mean that policy statements, objectives, or relationships between people and
land should be ignored.

Growing out of the concern of interested people, developed with their help and adopted by their
public leaders, it will remain meaningful only as long as that interest remains as a strong force in
upholding the principles and standards set forth herein.

The Master Plan and Action:

Effectuating the General Plan is the responsibility of both public and private groups. The
General Plan has no legislative authority to cause things to happen. If adopted as an ordinance it
must be amended before anything may be changed, but does not legislate change. The General
Plan provides the roadmap to follow. Vehicles of implementation must be started and put into
operation before any of its recommendations can be realized.

The General Plan may call out the need for a number of precise studies to be prepared dealing
with specific development situations. The Plan may recommend a detailed park or recreation
study to determine the precise design of the recreation area, or it could be a feasibility study to
                                                  4
determine the location of a large public facility. Some proposals will take the continued support
of public officials to reach fruition. All of these things may have their beginning as a
recommendation of the General Plan.

Other vehicles of implementation take the form of Ordinances. These may include:

       The Zoning or Land Use Ordinance:

        The General Plan is not a zoning plan. It should, however, bear a relationship to all
future land use actions taken by the land use authority. The General Plan indicates land use as it
ideally should develop over a long period of time. Many recommendations may not be justified
in terms of population or economic growth at the present time. The land use ordinance should
not immediately change the zone on all property identified for future development by the
General Plan. Such changes can be initiated, over time, by an individual, a group, or by a public
body.

       The Subdivision Ordinance:

         Regulations for the subdivision of land, like zoning, stem from specific state laws which
place upon local public officials the responsibility of guiding their development. In order that
uniformity of requirements may be placed upon all developers, and in order that developers of
land can know beforehand those things that are expected of them, such ordinances become
necessary. The subdivision ordinance gives the public body the needed guidance in coordinating
development of land areas and provides for locating highways, utilities, public facilities such as
schools, etc., between the various developments. This ordinance should be revised and amended
in light of the recommendations of the General Plan.

       Field Trips:

      The Plan recommends that field trips be organized, as necessary, to review proposals
coming before the land use authority at their regular meetings. A member of the staff should
accompany land use authority members on each field trip.

       News Coverage:

        Representative newspapers, radio, and television, should be encouraged to attend land use
authority meetings and to report these meetings to the public. Members of the public should be
encouraged to attend.

       Interpreting the Plan:

        It is essential that the graphics of the General Plan Maps convey the same meaning and
that their interpretation in formulating of policy be consistent.



                                                5
       Land Use Areas:

        The outlines of land use areas are, in some instances, definite and straight, and in other
instances, flexible and free form as shown on the Map. A curving, or free form line, indicates a
flexible boundary between two classes of land use. On the other hand, a straight, definite line
which is co-terminus with the edge of a well defined physical boundary, such as a street, or other
fixed and observable line, indicates a definite boundary for the district.

       Public Facilities:

        Existing public facilities such as schools, libraries, fire stations, etc., are shown on the
Plan Map in their present location. Public facilities which are proposed in areas where the land
has not been purchased are shown in a general symbol in the approximate location within their
service area where they would best be located to serve the people of a given district.

A Look Back, and a Look Into the Future:

In 1970 the Master Plan suggested that significant growth could be expected in the following 20
years. A specific quotation stated, “The entire region composed of southwestern Utah, northern
Arizona, and southern Nevada is poised on the threshold of phenomenal growth. Many
prominent planners have compared it to the Palm Springs and Phoenix areas of 20 years ago.”

Little did those people know? The 1970 population was officially 13,669. The 1990 population
was projected to reach 23,000. In reality, the official 1990 population was 48,560. The 1970
projection of rapid growth only missed by 25,560 residents and the official 2000 census
increased the population to 90,354, for an additional increase of 41,794. At this point it is safe to
say that Washington County has been discovered.

The 2010 census will likely not be available prior to the General Plan update being completed.
Estimates suggest that the 2010 population will be in the range of 160,000 to 170,000 residents.
That is a significant increase over the 1970 population of 40 years ago.

There are many who have suggested that Washington County should curb all future population
growth. If that had happened even ten years ago, think how many good people would have been
denied the opportunity to live in this county in the last 10 years? If a decision was made to limit
population, how would it be done? Would a lottery to issue building permits be best? What
number should be issued? Would we consider auctioning off a certain number each year to the
highest bidder? Considering that there are fewer permits issued in the unincorporated area of the
county than in most of the incorporated cities, how would this be controlled, inasmuch as the
county has no control over how many permits each city could issue?

It is the recommendation of the General Plan that the correct approach to issuing building
permits is through natural economic forces. There are peaks and valleys to a free market system
of building activity. With good planning, and with the application of good planning principles,
the only fair and equitable way to advance growth in the private sector is to allow natural

                                                  6
economic forces to drive the number of permits issued by the county in any given year. Over our
long history this seems to have served the county well.

There has been much concern over the critical need for work force housing. If housing permits
are limited by strict land use controls, work force housing may be stymied by sharp increases in
residential values as can be seen in other areas where this has been tried. In these instances, only
the wealthiest can afford to come to the area. The General Plan recommends that natural forces
and good planning decisions be used to oversee the future growth of the county. The recent
Vision Dixie Principles have been created to help guide future development. This approach has
served well in the past, and will continue to do so in the future.




                                                 7
Section II.
General Information regarding Public Lands in Washington County:
This section of the General Plan deals with general information relating to the public lands in
Washington County. Following this general review of public land issues is a more detailed
review of each specific public agency of major importance to Washington County, including the
Bureau of Land Management, the Dixie National Forest, Zion National Park, and the Utah
Institutional and Trust Lands Administration. Other public agencies of significant influence in
Washington County include the Environmental Protection Agency, and Army Corps of
Engineers, U.S. Fish and Wildlife, the Federal Aviation Administration, and the U.S. Department
of Transportation. The agencies of significant influence and other public agencies may be
incorporated into the General Plan in greater detail, at a later date.

Access to and across public lands is vitally important for resource management and
development. Washington County will exercise its right to participate in the planning and
decision-making process associated with public lands to the extent allowed by law. The County
shall be granted “cooperating agency” status and federal agencies shall coordinate with the
county in the preparation of federal land and resource management plans and associated
Environmental Impact Statements (EIS’s) that may affect the County by the outcome or process.
Under federal law, counties have the right to be involved in public lands planning before the
general public has the opportunity to be involved and before a preferred alternative is selected.

Washington County encourages the Agencies to develop biological resources management plans
and provide for the enhancement of native plants, fish, game and non-game species, promote
fishing and hunting on public lands, and provide a private property compensation program for
certain damages created by such programs. Species that are designated as special status,
threatened, endangered, sensitive, candidate or indicator under the federal or state Endangered
Species Act, on lands in Washington County should be based on sound scientific evidence and
local input. Local input should be included in developing biological resource management plans.
To the extent allowed by law, Washington County should have cooperating agency status and
agencies should coordinate with Washington County to address potential impacts of any action
that would impair private lands, alter the customary use and private property interests in the
public land, or potentially impact the local economy, or before eliminating, introducing or
reintroducing any species onto public lands

The Bureau of Land Management:

The Bureau of Land Management is the largest single property manager in Washington County.
It is the goal of the county to work closely with all of the Public Agencies in the management of
their areas of responsibility for the overall good of the county. Whatever happens on the limited
private land in the county impacts the public lands, and what happens on the public land impacts
the private land. A close inter-relationship, as has been shown by previous experience, is even
more important to continue into the future.
                                                8
Continued development of recreation facilities on BLM land is encouraged by the General Plan.
Continued approval of BLM land for recreation and public purpose use is also recommended.
Some BLM land has been identified for disposal for development purposes. The General Plan
recommends that the County and the BLM work in close contact together to determine when
these disposal lands may best be absorbed into the private development lands in the county.
Where land is disposed of for private use, there is a need for public facilities to provide the
necessary services to this land. Public facilities are often supported and maintained by property
taxes. Where the public lands have not paid those taxes, some adjustment should be made to
avoid a subsidy of public lands by private property owners.

The National Forest:

Most of the Pine Valley Mountain area and most of the northern part of the county is included in
the Pine Valley District of the Dixie National Forest. Detailed plans should be encouraged to
determine the full potential of public recreation and camping facilities that could be developed in
the Forest. Present camping facilities are used to capacity during the summer camping season.

There are still tracts of private land inside of the forest boundary. Efforts should continue to
trade those lands out of the forest in selected areas where they could be used for other purposes.
The Plan recommends that efforts to facilitate such trades be continued.

National Forest land should continue to be used as multiple use land in that it should be available
for livestock grazing, horseback riding and hiking, hunting, forest product gathering including
wood and pine nut harvesting in proper locations, the cutting of Christmas trees where proper,
and visitor experience on the forest including travel, and the use of trails throughout the forest
system. The national forest land inside of Washington County is a valuable multiple use asset to
the county and the residents and visitors that use the land.

The Dixie National Forest has just concluded the work on a multiple year update of the forest
plan. This plan has just recently been adopted by the National Forest Service. The county is
generally very supportive of this plan and encourages its implementation. The county
appreciates having been involved with the Forest Service in the update of this plan. The Forest
Service should ensure that watershed protection, which may include the need for mechanical and
other methods of access and intervention as a primary focus.

The National Park:

Zion National Park is a major tourist attraction in Washington County. With an average visitor
count of over 2,000,000 visitors annually, the county benefits greatly from having the Park in
this county. The Park Service has continued to update their facilities to make them more
attractive to the traveling public. The shuttle transportation system, installed several years ago,
has proved to be an outstanding method to move the visitors through the park during peak visitor
periods and the General Plan encourages its continued use and expansion as necessary. Efforts
should also be made to expand tourist facilities within the park in order to allow visitors to see as
much of the Park as possible. Planning efforts should continue to determine how best to
                                                  9
accommodate the numbers of visitors and to make their visit to the Park a memorable
experience.

Institutional and Trust Lands Administration:

When Utah was granted statehood in 1899, the United States Government granted 1/9 of the
public land in Utah as school trust lands for the purpose of supporting public schools. Additional
acreage was added for 11 other beneficiaries. The total amount of land in Utah was over
7,000,000 acres of land. Over half of that amount has been sold off.

The various beneficiaries have been active in selecting lands in Washington County over the
years, especially after Washington County became recognized as a good place to invest in land in
the early 1960' s. The county has remained as a popular place for land development since that
time, and much of the development that has taken place has been on land that was previously
transferred to the State, or on lands that have been selected by the various entities from BLM
land elsewhere in the county.

As a result of the federal government action, the state is filled with a checkerboard pattern of
state trust land in most of the counties. The original designation provided for 4 sections of land
in each township, effectively creating the checkerboard pattern. In many cases, this has made it
difficult to practically plan for the use of these lands. In some parts of the state where mineral
development has been active, the trust land program has benefitted from mineral development.
In parts of the state where mineral development is non-existent, livestock grazing has historically
been the primary user of trust land property.

In Washington County, the General Plan recommends that the trust land administration and the
county work together to identify the highest and best use of the trust lands in the county for the
benefit of the school system as well as for the benefit of long range planning in the county.

Impact of public lands:

Residents of Washington County can do very little without impacting, or being impacted by the
public lands in this county. Some critical ways that public lands impact the county include:
 •       Offering outstanding scenic views in nearly all directions.
 •       Providing watersheds to protect our drinking water.
 •       Providing the rights-of-way for all of our roads leading to or from the county.
 •       Providing sand and gravel borrow sites for most of our building and development
         activity in the county.
 •       Providing for oil, gas and mineral exploration and production.
 •       Conveying public land for various public services including school sites, park sites, solid
         waste landfill, Sportsman Shooting Park, county correctional facility, and various
         recreation and public purpose facilities.
 •       Providing many of our outdoor activities including hiking, water sports, climbing, using
         off-road vehicles, horseback riding, livestock grazing, hunting, fishing, camping, pine
         nut gathering, wood gathering, and Christmas tree harvesting.

                                                 10
•        Providing habitat for abundant biological resources, including plants, fish and wildlife,
        and a long list of other activities that contribute in large measure to the customs and
        culture of the residents of this county.

Washington County consists of islands of private land and people who are surrounded by State,
Reservation, and public lands. Ownership and administration of lands within Washington
County are shown below:


                                            Table I
                                     County Land Management
Bureau of Land Management                  682,971.39 acres                        43.92 %
Dixie National Forest                      346,356.46 acres                        22.27 %
Zion National Park                         132,449.40 acres                         8.52 %
State - all categories                      87,865.09 acres                         5.65 %
Other Public - county. local, etc.          20,554.86 acres                         1.32 %
Paiute Indian Reservation - Shivwits        28,183.70 acres                         1.81 %
Other Private                              246,640.31 acres                        16.50 %
Total:                                   1,555.021.31 acres                       100.00 %




Historical Background:

Important elements of the customs and culture of the county are identified generally. These
important sites are, in large measure, found on public land. They include historic sites,
cemeteries, ghost towns, forts, sawmills, scenic byways, and other areas of interest.

The economic and ecological health of the county is very much dependent on the manner in
which public lands are managed by the various state and federal agencies having jurisdiction
over 84 percent of lands within the county. While such lands contribute many of the unique
assets that make the county a highly desirable place to live and to visit, a number of issues have
been raised during the previous half century involving the public’s right to access and use the
lands for legitimate purposes. Moreover, the ability of local and state governments and providers
of such essential services as gas, power, water, transportation, and communications to access and
use or cross over the lands when other alternatives are not reasonable available remains a critical
need to ensure that local governments can provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the
community at large.

Up through the 1960'  s the public generally had a clear right and opportunity for accessing the
public lands for recreation, travel, and numerous business activities directly tied to making a
living including mineral development, water storage, and water delivery, among others. With
the enactment of numerous federal laws and regulations in the 1960'   s and 1970'  s pertaining to
environmental protection, county officials and residents became increasingly subject to
                                                 11
restrictions on how, when and where, access to the lands could be made. While the county is
fully supportive of land use constraints necessary to protect public health and safety, and to
preserve rare natural assets, historical features, and important landscapes, the county has needed
the full cooperation and coordination of all affected state and federal agencies to achieve a
proper balance between competing demands for use and management of the public lands that
surround each of our communities. Other than water storage and transportation, no other issue
has caused more concern than that of wilderness designation.

In 1976, Congress passed the Federal Land Policy Management Act (FLPMA) which, among
other things, required of Bureau of Land Management to inventory all lands under its jurisdiction
for wilderness characteristics and to recommend to the Congress, through the President, those
lands that should be designated and preserved as wilderness. BLM in Utah completed its
inventories of lands, identifying those lands that met the required characteristics of wilderness,
and in 1991 submitted its final report to Washington D.C. for further action. The report
recommended approximately 67,000 acres of qualifying public lands in the county be designated
for management under the Wilderness Act of 1964. While the county expressed some concerns,
it substantially supported BLM’s recommendations with only minor modifications.

Special interest groups at the state and national level, however, were successful in getting
legislation introduced before Congress that would have greatly enlarged upon the acres and
numbers of areas to be designated even though the excess acreage did not meet the wilderness
definition, and often contained important facilities or characteristics that would make wilderness
designation in appropriate. Over the course of many years, the county held public hearings and
conducted its own studies to determine the best legislative option to achieve the proper balance
for the citizens of the county. The final reports from such studies continued to parallel the BLM
recommendations and received support from consecutive Utah Governors. Congress, however,
failed to take final action to resolve the controversy and allow the state and county to move
forward. “Temporary” restrictions on the federal lands involved in the initial inventories in the
form of wilderness study areas remained in place, making it difficult, if not impossible to
implement long-term management decisions on each area.

Affected BLM lands in Utah remained in limbo, while National Forest System lands in the Dixie
National Forest in Utah were resolved. The Arizona wilderness bill included 2,690 acres on the
Utah side of the Arizona border in the Beaver Dam Mountains. The Forest Service bill included
50,232 acres in the Pine Valley Mountains in north central Washington County. The final
designations were compatible with county recommendations.

In 2004, with support from the Utah Governor’s office, the county determined on its own to
make one final effort to develop a plan for Washington County addressing not only wilderness,
but a number of other areas affecting the county such as utility corridors, rights-of-way,
community growth, and other concerns of the county. Details of this study can be found in the
section of the General Plan entitled “The Washington County Resource Management Plan of
2009.”

The planning effort addressing both wilderness designation and other land use issues, finally
reached a climax after years of negotiations in March 2009, with the passage of the Omnibus
                                                12
Lands Bill of 2009 which included a section entitled “Subtitle O,” - Washington County, Utah.
After 33 years of significant time and effort on the part of county officials, staff, and many
others, Washington County finally had legislative decisions relating to many of the important
issues affecting the interaction between the needs of the county and the federal land management
agencies.

In passing the county land bill, Congress made the following statement in Section 1792(c)(1);
“Congress finds, that for the purposes of section 603 of the federal land policy and management
act of 1976..., the public land in the county administered by the Bureau of Land Management has
been adequately studied for wilderness designation.” The county strongly endorses that
statement by Congress. This General Plan does not support adding more wilderness areas in
Washington County. Lands within the county’s jurisdiction have been studied “ad nauseum,” for
the past three decades. It is now time for the county and the federal agencies involved to learn
how to administer the lands designated, and to effectively integrate them into the wide spectrum
of land uses within our jurisdiction, including the multiple use and sustained yield mandates
provided by federal laws as they pertain to the public lands. The county maintains that it is
critical for federal agencies to use their available resources to accurately survey, map, and sign
all wilderness boundaries so that the public at large will be well-informed of the established
boundaries, and those readily apparent conflicts to be resolved ahead of time to simplify
administration and implementation. Moreover, land use restrictions and policies should be
amply posted on applicable web sites, title plats, information kiosks, and other forms of media to


help visitors and other users avoid conflicts and associated penalties. The rights of private and
state in-holdings must be respected unless and until such lands are acquired by the applicable
agency through legitimate processes from cooperating owners. The county will be diligent in
seeing that provisions of section 1792(b) which pertain to administration of the new wilderness
areas, especially the prohibition of “buffer zones,” and restrictions on land uses outside of the
designated areas, be fully complied with by agency personnel at all levels.

The county believes that properly managed wilderness areas can be an asset to the diversity of
opportunities for our residents, including compatible recreation, wildlife habitat improvements,
livestock grazing and watershed management, among others. Improper administration and
unnecessarily restrictive policies in violation of the Land Bill’s provisions can create long-lasting
conflicts, costly and unproductive legal action, and loss of public support. Washington County
expects and looks forward to cooperative management and information sharing on all policy
development and implementation pertaining to designated areas inside of wilderness areas and
adjacent to outside boundaries. Information sharing must take place in all policy development
and implementation pertaining to designated areas inside of and adjacent to county boundaries.

The Washington County Land Bill: (Title “0") Omnibus Lands Bill of 2009

Because not everyone has ready access to the land bill signed by the President in March, 2009,
some of the highlights of the bill will be reviewed as a part of the Washington County General
Plan. The entire Bill is included as appendix II to the General Plan.

                                                 13
1.   The Bill specifically designated sixteen wilderness areas. One 2,243 acre area
     lies in the Dixie National Forest. A 124,406 acre area is contained within Zion
     National Park. Fourteen wilderness areas totaling 129,289 were designated on
     lands managed by the Bureau of Land Management. A summary of each of
     these wilderness areas is found in Appendix “A” of this General Plan to assist
     persons not having access to more detailed information relative to wilderness in
     Washington County. Most of the information is taken from reports prepared by
     the Bureau of Land Management.

2.   Two National Conservation Areas (NCA’s) were designated. One covers lands
      within the Red Cliffs Desert Reserve established in 1998 under the Washington
      County Habitat Conservation Plan. The second area is located in the southwest
      corner of the State along the Beaver Dam Wash and includes an Area of Critical
      Environmental Concern (ACEC) that was designated by the BLM in 1999 for the
      protection of the tortoise and other desert wildlife species. The BLM is required
      to complete management plans for the NCA within 3 years of enactment of the
      bill.

3.   Uses allowed in the designated wilderness areas and the National Conservation
      Areas are addressed as to military over-flights, fire suppression, and road
      designations, acquisition of state and private in-holdings, water rights, wildlife
      management, and restrictions on buffer zones. All of the designations described
      above are withdrawn from the operation of mining and mineral leasing laws and
      land disposal either by operation of existing federal law or by specific language
      in the Land Bill. Federal agencies are required to consult and coordinate with
      state officials on matters pertaining to wildlife management and water
      development.

4.   Approximately 165 miles of the Virgin River and tributary streams in and
      adjacent to Zion National Park were designated as components of the National
      Wild and Scenic River System, the first such designation in the State of Utah.

5.   Rights of Native Americans in designated wilderness areas are assured. A 640
     acre tract of land formerly managed by the BLM is added to the southwest corner
     of the existing Shivwits Indian Reservation.

6.   Within 3 years of enactment, the BLM is required to prepare a comprehensive
     travel management plan for public lands in Washington County that, among
     other things addresses a system of roads, trails, and areas for motorized and non
     motorized use. The plan is required to designate a linked trail system across
     BLM and National Forest lands known s the High Desert Trail for motorized
     recreational vehicles. The General Plan also identifies and recommends
     alternatives for a northern transportation corridor in the county.



                                      14
         7.       The Land Bill states proceeds from the sale of public lands by the BLM, where
                   identified for disposal in its 1999 Resource Management Plan, will be applied to
                   the purchase of non-federal lands inside the wilderness areas and NCA’s.

        8.        The BLM is responsible to identify and manage areas in the county where
                   biological conservation is a priority and is authorized to establish cooperative
                   agreements with, and provide grants to local, state, and tribal entities for research
                   and management in such areas.

        9.        Also, the Bureau of Land Management is required to convey title to
                   approximately 353 acres of public lands in the county to five public and
                   municipal entities for parks, schools, and correctional facility expansion.

        10.       Disposal of some public lands for various types of development.

Various aspects of the Land Bill will be discussed further in the General Plan dealing with
specific public agency plans. With the recent approval by Congress of the Land Management
Plan, the BLM has much work to do to comply with the elements of Congressional action.
Following this general overview of the public lands, the General Plan will look in some detail at
each of the public agencies involved with public land management in the county.

A summary of each of each of these wilderness areas is found in “Appendix A” of this General
Plan to assist persons not having access to more detailed information relative to wilderness in
Washington County. Most of the information is summarized from the environmental impact
reports issued by the Bureau of Land Management.


Historic Sites:

Some of the most important aspects of the customs and culture of Washington County are found
in the remnants of many early settlements created by early pioneers. Rather than review these in
a separate section of the General Plan, they are discussed in this section of the report because
many sites are found on Bureau of Land Management or Forest Service land, or, are surrounded
by public land which require cooperation and coordination on the part of the public agencies in
order for the residents and visitors to have any chance to visit these important historic locations.
In a few instances, the agency has transferred ownership to local jurisdictions, but without
assistance from the public agencies, some would be difficult or impossible to visit. These sites
are listed as follows:

       1.         “Ghost Towns”

                  There are many Ghost towns in Washington County. In reality, these towns are
                  remnants of settlements by the original pioneer settlers of Washington County.
                  Following is a list of some of the more prominent ghost towns presently existing
                  in the unincorporated portion of the county. Most are surrounded by public land.
                  Many of these towns are found along the Virgin River. The reason that most of
                                                    15
the towns are no longer there is also because of the Virgin River. The river could
not be controlled, and flooding washed out dams and irrigation ditches. Most of
the settlers finally gave up and moved to other locations.

a.     Duncan’s Retreat is the remnants of a small community along the banks of
       the Virgin River between Rockville and Virgin. There were as many as 80
       people there at its peak, most of the town has been eliminated by changes
       in the channel of the Virgin River, which is also the main reason the town
       no longer exists.

b.     Grafton is the next ghost town going upstream, along the Virgin River.
       Grafton is on the south side of the river and there are still two or three
       remnants or the town remaining. The school/church is owned by the
       county and has been restored in recent years. Two or three of the original
       homes are still standing, and at least one has been restored. Access to
       Grafton is through the town of Rockville.

       The General Plan suggests that a pedestrian access be developed on the
       south side of Highway 9 with an access foot bridge leading to the Grafton
       town site. This could provide an enhancement to the scenic highway
       designation of Route 9, and also provide security against the vandalism
       that takes place at the town site. The area is mostly privately owned and is
       jointly managed by the Grafton Heritage Partnership.
c.     Continuing up the river are the towns of Shuensburg and Northrup. They
       were located on the east fork of the Virgin River and are presently located
       on private land with no public access. These towns disappeared because of
       the same reason the towns on the lower River disappeared. It is because
       of flooding on the river, and having most of their farmland and irrigation
       ditches washed out from the floods that these towns disappeared. The
       local historical society should seek access to these sites for the use of the
       general public.

d.     Harrisburg is located along I-15 Freeway just south of the town of Leeds.
       At its peak in 1868, about 25 families lived there. Because of floods on
       Ash and Cottonwood Creeks, most of the residents moved north to what is
       now the town of Leeds. There are still two original homes in Harrisburg.
       The Orson Adams house on the west side of the freeway has been restored
       by the BLM, with help from Washington County.

e.     Silver Reef is located adjacent to Leeds. Silver was discovered in this
       location in about 1871- 1872, which was the beginning of a prosperous
       run lasting until approximately 1900. Silver Reef was a bustling
       community at its peak with many types of stores and businesses existing
       there. Silver Reef provided a sale for many of the agricultural goods
       produced by the surrounding pioneer communities.

                                16
                   The town-site is presently owned by Washington County. There are three
                   or four buildings standing. A map exists showing the location of each of
                   the original buildings at the Reef. It is estimated that as much as
                   $10,000,000, in silver was taken out of the mines during its original days
                   of operation. There have been some attempts to again utilize the mines in
                   more recent years, but have not been overly successful. The General Plan
                   recommends that the county pursue further restoration if the ghost town or
                   perhaps private investments could be made to continue to restore this once
                   significant part of the history of the county. The area has a colorful
                   history with many fascinating tales relating to what happened there over
                   the years of its existence.

            f.     Hebron was another ghost town located along Shoal Creek lying west of
                   the City of Enterprise. The originally settlers of Hebron, attempted to live
                   the United Order wherein everyone living there shared everything they
                   had in common. The experiment was not successful and most of the
                   residents moved elsewhere. Hebron has had some new life in recent years
                   as a summer home area with new homes being built. The land around
                   Hebron is part of the Dixie National Forest.

2.   Cemeteries:

     Early cemeteries have also become a part of the customs and culture of the county. There
     were likely cemeteries laid out in connection with most, if not all, of these early
     community developments. Some of the more prominent cemeteries include the
     following:

            a.     The Grafton cemetery is located at the edge of the town on Bureau
                   of Land Management land. The Grafton Heritage Partnership and
                   descendents of the original settlers maintain the cemetery and keep
                   it up. The cemetery is available for the public to visit.

            b      The Harrisburg cemetery sits adjacent to the frontage road on the east side
                   of the Interstate Freeway. This site is adjacent to a more recent
                   development of travel trailers used primarily for residents who come here
                   for the winter. The actual Harrisburg subdivision where homes were built
                   lies west of the Freeway, and is now part of the Red Cliffs Desert Reserve.

            c.     At Silver Reef, there are actually two cemeteries located on a side road
                   away from the town site. One of the cemeteries was for the Catholics, the
                   other for the Protestants. These cemeteries have been deeded from the
                   county to the town of Leeds for upkeep and maintenance.

            d.     Hebron also has a cemetery located in this town. It is kept up by relatives
                   of those buried there.

                                            17
            f.      One other notable cemetery is the one in Pine Valley. This cemetery is
                    still used regularly by descendents of the settlers of Pine Valley, and by
                    others who have moved to the area in more recent years. The cemetery
                    was located on the National Forest, and has more recently been deeded to
                    the Pine Valley Special Service District for upkeep and maintenance.

3.   Scenic Byways:

     There are two scenic byways in Washington County. One is the road between Rockville
     and Apple Valley which is a county maintained road located mostly on Bureau of Land
     Management land, and so identified as a scenic byway by the BLM. This roadway
     begins by crossing the only remaining historic bridge across the Virgin River in the town
     of Rockville, and climbing out of the Virgin River Valley to intersect with State Highway
     59 at "Big Plain Junction" in the town of Apple Valley.

     Part of the roadway between those two towns is in the unincorporated area of the county.
     That section of the road, a difficult section to maintain, is maintained by the county.

     The other scenic byway is on State Route 9 between LaVerkin and Zion National Park.
     This is a Utah State Highway scenic byway, and is discussed in connection with the
     transportation section discussing major highways in the county.

4.   Other important historic sites.

     There are many other important sites in Washington County, both in the various cities
     and towns as well as in the unincorporated areas of the county. Some of these sites are
     found on private land, and others are on public land. The purpose of the General Plan is
     to recommend that all such sites be preserved, and made available to the residents of the
     county, and to visitor'
                           s who come to the county to visit.

            a.      Fort Pearce is located in Warner Valley, near the Arizona border on the
                    road between the Washington fields and the Sky Ranch development. The
                    historic fort is no longer standing and only the remnants of the original
                    fort remain. Fort Pearce was constructed during the pioneer days to help
                    protect the livestock of the pioneers from marauding Indians running off
                    livestock. The Navajo'  s were considered to be the ones who created the
                    most damage to pioneer herds. The purpose of the fort was to alert the
                    settlers when Indian groups were coming into the area to warn them to
                    protect their livestock. After peaceful settlement of Indian problems, the
                    fort was not as important as it was originally. It is still an important part
                    of the customs and culture of the county.

            b.      Dinosaur Tracks are located on BLM land along the same road as Fort
                    Pearce, mentioned above. In this location are found some definite tracks
                    left behind by the era of Dinosaur'
                                                      s, and are of special interest to see.

                                             18
               c.      Santa Clara River Reserve has been more recently developed in an effort
                       to protect Indian writings located on the south side of old highway 91
                       immediately south of the City of Ivins. This project is on BLM land with
                       the ultimate intent of making this location an attractive visitation element
                       in the county. A committee of residents from Ivins and Santa Clara has
                       been involved with the BLM in identifying this site and making plans for
                       its preservation, called the Santa Clara River Preserve. The General Plan
                       recommends the continuation of this effort.

               d.      The Honeymoon Trail is a trail up and over the Hurricane Fault by which
                       settlers in the Kane County area came to St. George once a year to bring
                       materials to sell or trade, and also brought young couples to visit the St.
                       George Temple to be married. The actual trail over the fault line is
                       primarily across the border in the State of Arizona, but nevertheless has
                       significant historic value to the residents and visitors to Washington
                       County.

               e.      Sawmills were originally constructed in Washington County to provide
                       construction materials to build the pioneer cities and towns during early
                       settlement. Some of these were in the National Forest where most of the
                       larger timber is located. Another area where much of the timber came
                       from was the Mt. Trumbull area from which much large timber was
                       obtained for most of the large buildings in the territory, such as the St.
                       George Tabernacle and the St. George Temple. The most notable sawmill
                       on BLM land was located on Canaan Mountain. This location is discussed
                       in more detail in connection with the discussion of the Canaan Mountain
                       wilderness area.

The General Plan recommends taking whatever steps may be necessary to protect the preserve
the various historic sites that have been identified herein, along with others that may not have
been specifically identified. There are many other aspects to life in Washington County that
qualify as a part of the customs and culture of this county including such important areas as
education, music, theater, writing, dance, and these type of cultural activities. They are not
specifically mentioned in this plan except to say that these things have been important elements
of the customs and culture of the county since the first pioneer settlers entered the valley, and for
the most part, are being protected by various historical and other interested groups in the county
today.




                                                 19
Section III.

The Bureau of Land Management
General:

There are 630,282.34 acres of land in Washington County under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of
Land Management. This amounts to nearly 41% of the total land area in the county, and is easily
the largest block of public land. The BLM land area is almost double the amount of land
managed by the Forest Service and more than 2-1/2 times the amount of privately owned land in
the county.

The Bureau of Land Management comes under the jurisdiction of the Interior Department and is
guided by the Secretary of the Interior. There is also a State Director at the state level, and the
county land is also currently overseen by the District Office in Cedar City. This multi-level of
management often complicates the problem of dealing directly with the manager of the St.
George field office. This leads to challenges on the local level of dealing directly with those that
have the most interest in what happens in Washington County.

The county, as a result of adopting the Washington County General Plan, makes it known that
the county expects to have a "seat at the table" with the BLM in making decisions that impact
this county. In recent years, the county has had a fine relationship with the local BLM office.
The county would expect that this type of relationship will continue well into the future.

This county is affected by what happens on BLM land more than it is with any of the other
public land management in the county. Alternately speaking, there are many special interest
groups would also like to be able to influence the BLM in support their various positions while
special interest groups generally have a narrow focus and limited official responsibility, if any.
The county has numerous functional duties to its residents that require meaningful and practical
interaction with the public land and its managers.

One major concern of Washington County is the development of a county-wide transportation
plan. The county desires to work closely with the BLM in developing this transportation plan
inasmuch as most of the land in the county where the residents reside is surrounded by BLM
land. It is not possible to develop a plan for the county without coordination with the BLM.

While transportation in the county also involves the other public agencies as well s the BLM, so
much of the county plan is dependent upon planning by the Bureau of Land Management, the
General Plan has chosen to discuss transportation in this section of the General Plan. It is
recommended that all other agencies review this section of the BLM plan, as well as for private
land developers and city and town leaders to familiarize themselves with the Washington County
transportation plan. This section of the General Plan dealing with transportation is cited
frequently in nearly all of the other sections of the plan.

                                                 20
Transportation:

One of the most important aspects of planning on the BLM land involves transportation
planning. In the context of the Land Bill, the BLM is required to prepare a transportation plan
for the BLM land within the next 3 years. Washington County is developing a transportation
plan for the County which includes roads on the BLM land. The county desires to work closely
with the BLM in their development of such a plan.

This phase of the General Plan considers the impact of the Bureau of Land Management land on
transportation into, out of, and within the county. To drive through Washington County requires
driving over BLM lands. It is not possible to drive far within the county without driving over
roads crossing BLM land. Therefore this section of the General Plan will analyze the various
levels of roads in Washington County, and contains a written text and transportation maps.
Much of what is discussed regarding the transportation plan of the county also applies to the
section of the plan dealing with the Forest Service, and to a lesser extent, to the National Park.

There are identified in the General Plan four types of county roads. These four types are Arterial
Highways, Collector Roads, Special Purpose Roads, and other roads not otherwise classified
herein. The roads depicted are shown without regard to the underlying land ownership or
maintenance responsibility.

Because most of these roads are on public land, not controlled by Washington County,
Washington County is not always able to control or influence the condition, maintenance, or
ability of the public to travel all of these roadways. Some roads shown may be for special
purposes which may result in access being closed to the general public. Many of these roads are
not accessible by traditional vehicles including two-wheel drive sedans. Local inquiry with the
county or with the public agency involved should be made before venturing out into the “back
country” of Washington County. Simply because a road is shown on a county or public agency
map, does not mean that it is open to travel by the public in all types of vehicles and under all
conditions.

The arterial highways essentially include all of the State and Federal highways that pass through
the county even though these roads are not maintained by the county. Some county roads are
also included in this list. This map includes all of the roads that are included in that category of
major arterials and they are identified in the written text that follows.

There are many collector roads in the county. Some of these are classified by use, others by
location and by the part that they play in providing a county wide backbone of necessary
transportation routes through the county. Right-of-way width may vary on the collector road
system. These roads are also shown on the map. They are not individually listed in the written
text of the General Plan because of the difficulty of properly describing each one.

There are many types of special purpose roads existing on the Bureau of Land Management, and
Forest Service land in the county. These roads provide essential access to mining and mineral
                                                 21
sites and claims, locations of sand and gravel resources, water catchments, springs, livestock
facilities, recreation sites, private property, School and Institutional Trust Land property, and
other such locations serving the needs of county residents.

The special purpose roadway map does not attempt to identify each and every roadway existing
on the public land in the county. There are many roadways existing but not specifically classified
that also provide access to areas of importance to county residents. The maps that are shown as a
part of the General Plan do not in any way attempt, or suggest, that roads not classified should be
abandoned or closed by the BLM. In fact, the county would expect that the BLM would
coordinate and discuss any proposed closure of roads in the county with county officials prior to
any closures taking place.

Except for the major arterials which are shown for continuity purposes, the county road plan
does not attempt to show most roadways within the incorporated cities and towns. Some are
shown to provide continuity to roads running through the incorporated area of the county to
show how they connect to other segments of the roadway in the unincorporated areas. The
system of county roads is discussed in more detail as follows:

A.     Major Arterial Highways:

       1.      Interstate 15 Freeway:

               The I-15 Freeway is one of the most important transportation routes across our
               entire nation and travels through major cities including Los Angeles and Salt Lake
               City. This freeway carries millions of vehicles each year through the county.
               Much of the original right-of-way through unincorporated parts of Washington
               County is on BLM Land.

       2.       Old Highway 91":

               Prior to the completion of I-15 in 1973, the main transportation route through
               Washington County was on U.S. Highway 91. Occasionally, traffic is shut down
               on I-15 because of an accident in the Virgin River Gorge. It is then funneled
               across the old U. S. highway, now a county road, to allow traffic to keep moving
               while I-15 is closed. It is critical to keep this highway open and in good repair. It
               comes through the Beaver Dam area from Arizona, crosses Utah Hill, and the
               Shivwits Indian reservation, and then drops down through the communities of
               Ivins and Santa Clara, rejoining I-15 again at St. George, Utah.

       3.      State Highway 18:

               This State Highway links the St. George valley to the northern end of Washington
               County at the City of Enterprise, then into Iron County, linking with I-15 at Cedar
               City. It is an important north-south route through the west central part of the
               county. It is gradually being widened and should be a four lane highway from St.

                                                 22
     George to Enterprise at some point in the future. The General Plan supports its
     continued widening and improvement.

4.   State Highway 9:

     This State Highway links I-15 with Zion National Park and Kane County part of
     the highway has been designated as a State "scenic byway and is considered for
     national designation. Much of this highway is located on BLM land. This 54 mile
     long route follows the path of the Virgin River, and winds through small scenic
     towns as the primary approach to Zion National Park. It contains views of the
     towering cliffs that are within the Park. The General Plan supports this
     designation and encourages further enhancement of this route to Zion National
     Park.

5.   State Highway 17:

     This short stretch of roadway across mainly BLM land leaves I-15 at Anderson
     Junction and travels through the town of Toquerville, joining State Route 9 in the
     City of LaVerkin.

6.   State Highway 59:

     This route begins in the City of Hurricane at the intersection of Highway 9, and
     continues eastward toward the State of Arizona, and Kane County, Utah by way
     of Apple Valley and Hildale. It provides an alternate route to Kane County and
     the State of Arizona without traveling through Zion Park.

7.   The Gunlock Road:

     This road begins at the intersection with old highway 91 and continues northward
     through the town of Gunlock, intersecting with State Highway 18 on the other
     end, in the community of Veyo.

8.   Highway 120:

     Highway 120 is a county road running between State Highway 18 in the City of
     Enterprise and the Iron County/Nevada State line to the west.

9.   Old Highway 144:

     Old Highway 144 is a county road that runs from the intersection with I-15
     Freeway and the town of New Harmony in the northern part of Washington
     County.



                                     23
10.   Pine Valley Road:

      The Pine Valley road runs between the town of Pine Valley and the intersection of
      the Pine Valley Road and State Highway 18 at the town of Central. .

11.   Future State Highways - yet unconstructed:

      There are a number of major traffic routes that are necessary to the future of
      Washington County. The General Plan recommends and supports the
      construction of each of these future routes at some point in time, and recognizes
      that a good part of each route will cross BLM land, or be predominantly on BLM
      land.

      a.     Southern Parkway:

             The Southern Parkway is now constructed from mile post 2 on I-15
             Freeway to the new St. George airport. It is planned to continue eastward,
             around the Sand Hollow Reservoir, and connect with State Route 9 near
             3400 West in the City of Hurricane. The General Plan recommends its
             completion as an important east-west connection between cities in the
             county. It will provide primary access to the airport from the east side of
             the county.

      b.     Western Corridor:

             Part of the Western Corridor alignment has been identified from Snow
             Canyon Parkway through the cities of Ivins and Santa Clara. This is an
             important western link to theI-15 Freeway and is located primarily on
             BLM land from Santa Clara to the Virgin River crossing, connecting to I-
             15 at mile post 2. The General Plan supports this belt route. This route
             from Santa Clara to the Virgin River crossing is identified on the county
             transportation map, and made a part of the General Plan. A preliminary
             center line alignment was proposed after a year-long study by the
             Metropolitan Planning Organization with a broad spectrum of input from
             agencies, cities, and the public. The study was completed to promote
             corridor preservation until such time as funding was made available to
             complete the project. The final alignment from Old Highway 91 to the
             Virgin River crossing will need to be coordinated between the county, the
             BLM and the Metropolitan Planning Organization.

             Neither Santa Clara nor Ivins has the money to build this link without
             funding from the MPO, or the State. Because of the importance of Old
             Highway 91 as an emergency bypass from the Virgin River Gorge, it
             would appear that ultimately, it would be in the interest of the State of
             Utah to have this link constructed to bypass Sunset Blvd. and Bluff Street,
                                      24
     and to get truck traffic using the old highway back to I-15. For these
     reasons, the General Plan supports its construction in a reasonable period
     of time.

c.   Southern Link of the Southern Corridor

     This section of the Southern Corridor was the first section proposed in the
     county many years ago. It departs from the current Southern Parkway east
     of the St. George airport at the entrance to Warner Valley. Then the
     corridor continues eastward through Warner Valley and over the
     Hurricane Cliffs, continues eastward through the Canaan Gap, eventually
     connecting with State Route 59 in the town of Apple Valley. This route
     follows the State line.

     This route was originally proposed many years ago as a bypass for truck
     traffic to avoid the steep drop into Hurricane with the concern for the
     safety of school children in Hurricane. The General Plan continues to
     support this bypass route. Significant safety benefits would result from its
     construction.

     The construction of this roadway would also provide a right-of-way for a
     part of the Lake Powell pipeline as it follows State, BLM, and private land
     between the Arizona State line and the Sand Hollow Reservoir.

d.   Northern Corridor:

     As a result of the act of Congress approving the Washington County Land
     Use Bill, the BLM is required to identify one or more routes making up a
     Northern Corridor. This corridor would link State Highway18 with
     Interstate15 Freeway at mile post 13 or some other point, such as a North
     Leeds interchange. Four alternative routes are identified on the
     Washington County Transportation Map.

     The county is prepared to work closely with the BLM to determine the
     final right-of-way route, or routes. At least one alternative route would
     pass through a portion of the Red Cliffs Desert Reserve established for the
     protection of the desert tortoise. By 2030 a Northern Corridor will be
     critical to alleviate traffic gridlock in St. George City to and from large,
     growing community development along Highway 18 Residents and
     businesses need access to I-15 for travel north to Cedar City, Salt Lake
     City, Provo, and employment centers in the eastern parts of the county.
     St. George City projected such a corridor in their major transportation plan
     approved in the mid 1980'     s. More recently, as a part of the Vision Dixie
     citizen involvement element of the plan, many citizens show various
     transportation elements through parts of the HCP. The General Plan

                              25
                    believes that such a route is possible with further study by the agencies
                    involved.

B.   Collector Roads:

     Washington County has a number of roads that are considered to be collector roads to
     collect traffic and move it to and from various parts of the county. These routes are
     vitally important to the customs and culture of the county, not only in moving people
     throughout the county, but also in connecting to our neighboring counties and/or states.
     Without including a specific description of each one, the general Plan supports each of
     these roadways and supports their continued upkeep and maintenance, either by county
     equipment, and/or the BLM themselves with their maintenance crews. The county
     expects to continue to work closely and in harmony with the BLM in the maintenance of
     these important roadways. The collector roads are not specifically listed in the General
     Plan text, but are shown along with the major arterial roads on the county map of roads
     and highways.

     The General Plan recommends that the county and BLM re-negotiate their road
     maintenance agreement once the county and BLM road maps have been completed

C.   Special Purpose Roads:

     There is another group of roadways in Washington County that contribute significantly to
     the transportation needs of the County. Many of these roads are an important part of the
     customs and culture of the county. In their own right, these roads are as important to
     those that use them as any other roads in the county that have been identified above.

     These roads are identified as special purpose roads. They may lead to a gravel or
     mineral deposit, mining claim, water spring or catchment for wildlife, livestock, to
     private parcels of land, to State Trust Land property, to a scenic overlook or view point,
     as a shortcut to save traveling miles out of the way to get to a particular place, for general
     sight seeing in some parts of the county, or to monitor, service, or install a utility
     transmission line. Most of these roads have been used for generations of time. Not all
     special purpose roads are open to the general public. Some are closed either on public
     land or on private land. A limited number serve special needs for maintenance of
     facilities such as a communication site, city wells, livestock watering places,
     meteorological stations, stream gauges, etc. Access may be limited to authorized users to
     protect the facilities from theft or vandalism. However, each, in some way, provides
     access to land for a special purpose.

D.   Roads Not Otherwise Classified:


     Some of these unclassified roadways that are not specifically shown on a detailed road
     map are dead-ended to the spot for which the road was built. Some are cherry stemmed"
     into wilderness areas or parcels of multiple use land. Some of these roads are graveled,
                                               26
       some are dirt , and some may be nothing more than a two track access to a particular
       parcel of land. All such roads are very important to those that have the need to use them
       regardless of when they were constructed.

       As a part of the update of the General Plan of the county, these roadways are necessary to
       maintain the customs and culture of the county, and will be considered to be as much a
       part of the county transportation plan as those shown on the transportation maps. None
       of these roads should be closed without consultation with county officials.

Financing for road construction and maintenance:

For financing and maintenance purposes, the county receives funding for county roads from
Federal and State sources. Roads are classified into two categories in counties. Most improved
county roads are called class B roads. Most unimproved roads are called class D roads.
Funds for these two categories of roads vary from year to year. The source of funding is the
gasoline tax of which the county receives a share based on a formula that considers the type of
road and the numbers of miles of roads in the county. The county has taken the position over the
years that county roads will be maintained from gasoline tax funds and not from property taxes.

It must also be pointed out by this plan that in hot, dry years, it is counter productive to attempt
to grade graveled roads when the county has received no rain. With some rain during the
summer months, the road county maintenance crew can smooth out the roads. With no rain, the
 washboard condition of the roads is impossible to control. The Plan cannot guarantee a good
amount of rain in July and August when it is most needed for proper road maintenance.

RS2477 Roads:

The 1866 mining law known as Revised Statute 2477 granted rights-of-ways for what are known
as “RS2477 Roads.” A great many roads in Washington County and elsewhere were created
under this authority and remain in use until this day. The statute was repealed in 1976 under the
Federal Land Management and Policy Act, but existing rights were preserved. State and local
governments, under Utah State law, have the right to administer the use and maintenance of
roads created under the statute. Over the years much controversy as various entities, including
the federal government, have attempted to close such roads without the consent of the governing
local or state authority. The General Plan supports the retention of such roads where legitimate
use and rights remain in place. Throughout Utah, many claims for and against R.S. 2477 rights-
of-way have been taken to federal court with mixed results. The General Plan supports Utah'     s
efforts to get the matter to the U.S. Supreme Court with the goal of obtaining a definitive ruling
and settlement on the matter.


In the meantime, Washington County has prepared a transportation plan of roads for use in this
county without regard to specific status. If a road of any of the categories discussed in this plan
is needed as a roadway, for legitimate purposes, it should exist and be retained regardless of the
category or type of roadway.

                                                 27
If a roadway is not needed, it may be subject to abandonment and closure. It is the intent of the
county to coordinate closely with each of the public entities to develop a plan for roads in
Washington County that the BLM, as well as other public and private entities can support. The
traveling public is not concerned with legal details regarding roadways, only that they be
maintained and available for use by the public. The General Plan supports this position, and
looks forward to coordinating the county plan with each of the public agencies.

Utility Corridors:

There are many major utility corridors running through and within Washington County. In the
1980' s the Intermountain Power Agency made application for a 500 kW power line through the
county from the power plant north of Delta, Utah to the Nevada border north of Mesquite. There
was much discussion at the time as to whether to allow narrow, individual corridors or to have
one wide corridor for the power line and any other subsequent utilities that might also need a
right-of-way along the same alignment. The decision was made to have a single corridor. Since
the original power line, there have been two underground natural gas lines in the same corridor
as well as a second power line and a fiber optic cable. Moreover, there is another underground
line, a refined petroleum line, currently being proposed. The General Plan supports the continued
use of this corridor for major utility lines and the continued maintenance of the current one mile
width of the corridor for future utilities that may need a corridor through the county. The General
Plan would support expansion of this corridor as necessary in the future. The southern portion of
this corridor has also been identified as the logical right-of-way for the High Desert Trail
identified by Congress in the 2009 land bill. Another major utility corridor contains the Navajo
500 kV power line that is located in the southern part of the county as it goes from the Navajo
generating plan near Glen Canyon Dam through Washington County and into Arizona and
Nevada.

All such corridors should remain available for additional utility systems. Both corridors are
designated in BLM'  s 1999 St. George Field Office Resource Management Plan and the
Department of Energy'  s Utility Corridor Plan and Environmental Impact Statement.

Other major utility corridors include power lines from the Red Butte sub-station at Central,
leading to southern Washington County. There is also a natural gas line parallel to Highway 18.
Another major utility corridor is located on the southeast side of the Pine Valley Mountains to
serve areas in the eastern part of the county with electricity and with natural gas. Other lines run
toward Springdale, Hildale, etc. There are a number of electric companies that wheel power to
sections of Washington County and serve the residents therein. Many cities have their own
power company.

Attached is a map that shows all the existing major utility corridors within and through the
county. Corridors are shown for future transmission projects that are proposed, but not yet
developed. The General Plan supports the creation of transmission corridors for the future lines
needed to serve the residents of the county. The plan recommends the public agencies work with
all future company needs in providing utility corridors for electric, gas, fiber optics, or oil
transmission facilities that will be needed in the future.

                                                 28
 Included in this recommendation is the need for the site location of transmission towers for
cellular telephone transmission, and other types of transmission systems including such things as
radio towers, hydrologic and air quality testing facilities, and high speed internet transmission
lines. These sites are not specifically shown as a part of the utility system map, but equally
important to the future of the county. Earthquake measuring devices and other similar testing
equipment that may also be located in the county in the future, and are encouraged to be
approved by the public agency by the General Plan.

The county is particularly concerned that major communication sites existing on west mountain
and scrub peak continue to be authorized by the BLM, and employed to their maximum
potential. Almost all law enforcement in this county and northern Mojave County, Arizona, is
dependent on these sites for area-wide communications. Public safety is at stake if use is
curtailed at either site by restrictive land designations.

Trails:

Trails have become an important part of the exceptional quality of life and livability of
Washington County and are a major draw for tourists and residents alike. Numerous trail
systems have been completed by city planers within incorporated limits with the intent to link
with trails in adjoining communities to make an unprecedented trail system allowing non-
motorized commuting in addition to extraordinary recreational opportunities in the urban zone.

Outside of the communities, the county has worked with public agencies to foster over 200 miles
of trails and numerous trail heads, the majority of which link with those coming out of the cities
and towns. The overall goal, as established by the Three Rivers Trail Initiative, is to create a
fully linked trail system allowing continuous travel on authorized trails from the Shivwits Indian
Reservation on the west to the south entrance of Zion National Park on the east. Funding for
most of the trail components has come through the Utah Division of Parks and Recreation with
matching contribution from local agencies and towns. The General Plan supports the completion
of this system along with other trail developments including the High Desert Trail system that is
called for in the Land Bill.

In the unincorporated area of the county there are basically two types of trails. They include:

1. Trails for use by hikers, horseback riders, mountain bikes, or users of non-motorized vehicles.
Many trails of this type are located in the Red Cliffs Desert Reserve, as well as in other areas of
the county. These trails are well used by this segment of the population.

2. Trails identified as being open to motorized vehicles. This may include 4-wheel - drive
vehicles, off-road vehicles, and any other type of motorized recreational vehicle. County
ordinance identifies all roads in the county as open to this type of vehicle unless otherwise shown
as being closed. One of the most important such trail is the High Desert Trail, as identified in the
Land Bill. This trail is a part of a multi-county trail that serves a large number of counties in the
State. The southern end of this trail here in Washington County ends up at the Nevada State
Line and will be extended further from there into the State of Nevada.

                                                 29
The county has been involved with the trail alignment for this trail for a number of years,
particularly on forest land, and is happy to continue to work with the public agencies to see the
right-of- way indentified and the trail constructed.

There is a map included in the General Plan showing the major routes for motorized vehicles and
for non-motorized vehicle travel. The State Division of Parks and Recreation has just completed
a very thorough map showing motorized trails in Washington County. The General Plan
endorses this plan, though some corrections will show on the map included in the General Plan.

The General Plan offers a strong word of caution, particularly to the users of motorized trails and
roads in the county. There are many roads and trails that are available for use. The county will
do all that it can to see that these travel ways are kept open and available for use. However, as
the use of motorized vehicles continues to increase as a measure of recreation in the county, the
General Plan recommends that recreation groups, particularly, undertake educational programs
with residents of the State who may come here, to encourage users to use roads and trails that are
designated for use, rather than opening new roads and trails that do not currently exist. Nothing
will cause the public agencies to close some of these trails more quickly than the abuse of the
right to use them in a respectful manner. This means staying on the existing routes, of which
there are many, not creating new routes that do not currently exist, keeping them clean by
leaving no trace as to where the vehicle has been, and simply being a good user whenever out on
the public lands on a recreational type vehicle. Use these routes wisely. The public must patrol
itself.

Other Areas of Needed Cooperation and Coordination:

There are many elements identified in the current Bureau of Land Management St. George Field
Office Resource Management Plan that Washington County is, and has been, in support of since
its adoption. The county does not support these elements being amended or changed in any
significant manner without the county being fully involved in such changes. The county has
enjoyed excellent cooperation with the BLM for the period of this resource management plan.

It is not the intent of this General Plan to include all of Chapter 2 of the BLM Resource
Management Plan into the General Plan of Washington County. However, many, if not most of
the policies in that Plan are still viable to Washington County and should still be followed. The
plan will attempt to identify many of the subjects covered and will look forward to discussing
any changes that may be proposed in the future to these various land use categories which are
listed as follows:

Land exchanges - would be permitted on land not specifically identified for exchange or disposal
if such changes are determined to be in the public interest and would accommodate the needs of
local and state governments including needs for the economy, public purposes, and community
growth. Lands previously identified for transfer, but not yet transferred, and which may be
available through the approval of the land use plan by Congress, are identified for acquisition as
well as lands identified for recreation and public purposes, where known.


                                                30
The preservation of scenic Route 9 has been discussed elsewhere, but is identified in the BLM
Resource Plan as being retained to enhance the scenic corridor. Additional utility transmission
in the already designated utility corridor to serve the eastern part of the county may, however,
still be necessary in that area in the future.

Trespass on public lands may be best settled by exchange for equal or better value in areas
supporting significant resources.

Where easements are necessary to provide public access to important use areas on public lands,
the BLM Resource Plan should continue to make public lands available for such purposes.
Where possible, sponsors should locate rights-of-way in existing or designated utility corridors.
Public lands are generally open to new rights-of-ways. Applications would be considered on an
individual basis. The BLM Resource plan identifies known and proposed utility routes. The
County General Plan also identifies known routes and currently known future routes for
roadways and utility corridors. Such corridors would generally be one mile wide but could vary
according to topography, etc. The General Plan recommends that this width be maintained and
that the county be involved in discussing areas where this width might need to be modified.

New routes for major roadways such as the connection from Highway 59 at Apple Valley to I-15
and on to Ivins and Santa Clara will be considered. This route would allow for heavy truck
traffic and through traffic to bypass congested urban areas and to resolve growing public safety
issues.

The County will work with the Metropolitan Planning Organization in both the eastern and
western parts of the county to identify existing major highways and proposed future major
highways and to include them in the General Plan.

Energy and mineral resources are critical to the future of Washington County. Of particular
importance is sand, gravel, and cinder sources for construction purposes. The General Plan will
work with the BLM to identify as many such sites as can be identified in the county in order that
these areas can be protected from closely developed residential uses. This can be done by county
zoning ordinance to protect future sites, even though actual development may not be needed in
the immediate future. The General Plan recommends that these valuable mineral uses be given
strong protection. Some sand and gravel sites may, of necessity, be located in proximity to
already developed residential areas.

There may be other minerals in the county, including solid and fluid minerals, and wind and
solar development in areas identified for multiple uses on the BLM lands. The county will work
with the BLM when such areas are proposed for development to provide the needed access for
utilities, and other needs, depending upon the size and scope of the project. The use of such
areas for development when properly identified and planned is supported by the General Plan in
multiple-use areas of the county.

"It is BLM' s objective to continue to work closely with Washington County officials to ensure
that use and enjoyment of existing roads and trails is permitted under safe and prudent
conditions. It is also BLM'  s objective to work with municipalities, transportation and other
                                                31
affected parties in defining and planning for future transportation systems where public lands are
involved," according to the BLM Resource Management Plan. The county supports this policy.
The present Resource Management Plan provides the basis for close coordination with the
county in developing and updating a county and BLM road management plan that can serve the
needs of both the county and the BLM. Such a plan is mandated by the bill from Congress. It
has been identified in many places in the General Plan that it is the goal of the county to work
out a transportation plan that both entities feel comfortable with.

Relative to soils and watershed protection, the General Plan quotes a statement from the
Resource Management Plan which is supported by the General Plan. "It is essential that BLM
work collaboratively with local, state, and other federal agencies, Indian tribes, user groups,
university researchers, and diverse interested publics to develop plans and implement approved
recommendations to achieve a sound balance in how resources are used to meet the community'     s
needs and to support the conservation of natural resources in the county." Any changes
regarding water development, water shed plan, and soils, should be coordinated with the County
prior to any change being made consistent with the General plan.

The Land Bill for Washington County also designated a number of river segments in the north
drainage of the Virgin River as being wild and scenic rivers. Most are located in the Kolob area
of the county north of Zion National Park. Washington County should be closely involved with
the BLM in developing specific management policies for these stream segments. Most of the
segments are within, or adjacent to, identified wilderness areas. The county is interested in the
management policies for these stream segments as they are developed by the BLM and in
harmony with the General Plan of Washington County.

The Lake Powell Pipeline was not specifically identified in the current management plan of the
BLM because no specific proposals had been made to BLM at the point in time that the resource
plan was completed. The General Plan supports the development of this critical future water
source for Washington County, and the proposed alignment of needed pipelines to support its
development. The County will work closely with the BLM to review and approve the proposed
or amended right-of-way to deliver additional source of water to Washington County.

The development of additional water resources also calls for the development of additional water
storage facilities. The General Plan supports all current and proposed water storage reservoirs
throughout the county as they may be identified in the future. Two known sites include the
Anderson Junction site and another site at the head of Warner Valley. As other sites are
proposed and identified, the General Plan recommends that the County General Plan and the
BLM Resource Management Plan be amended to include these additional reservoir sites as they
may be identified for development. The proposed plans shown in the Resource Plan may have
been modified over the years. The county will work with the BLM to make sure that this plan is
updated as needed.

There are significant riparian resources in the county with many such areas on BLM land. The
county will work closely with the BLM to review these areas, as well as vegetation resources,
special plant varieties and animal species that are identified in the Resource plan.

                                                32
The Habitat Management Plan was adopted by Washington County in 1996. The plan is in place
for a twenty year period of time. At the present time, the plan appears to be well managed and is
cooperating with the state and the various communities to the extent possible. The General Plan
proposes that the plan be continued in its current makeup for the balance of its originally
stipulated existence. It is the recommendation of the General Plan that a "seamless" transition be
made between the current HCP and the National Conservation Area created for the same areas as
the HCP as a part of the 2009 act of Congress. The HCP is working well, the current "players,"
meaning the public agencies, is functioning well. This organization would appear to be the same
organization that is needed to carry this plan forward beyond the 2016 expiration date of the
HCP.

On March 30, 2009, the President of the United States signed an Omnibus Lands Bill that,
among other things created the Red Cliffs National Conservation Area in Washington County.
The NCA was the outcome of many years of work and implementation associated with the
Washington County Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP) which had previously designated
approximately 62,000 acres of land in the county as the Red Cliffs Desert Reserve. The county
worked closely with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the State of Utah, the Bureau of Land
Management, and several participating municipalities to implement and manage the reserve for
the purpose of recovering the threatened desert tortoise and other species at risk in the St. George
urban corridor. That effort required extensive coordination and planning using the talent and
resources of all agencies and partners involved. A multi-agency group served as the
coordinating committee which advised the county commission on all matters pertaining to the
use and conservation of lands within the reserve. Under the terms of the HCP, representatives of
key user groups and community interests were involved in all phases of implementation and
management. It has served as a highly successful model for similar efforts taking place
throughout the western United States.

To provide a permanent protection for the desert tortoise after the USF&WS permit expired
and/or recovery objectives were achieved, the HCP called for the creation of a national
conservation area. The goal of the General Plan is to continue the highly collaborative process
currently in place in the development of planning, management strategies, and administration of
the NCA. In addition to the 1995 HCP and the 1996 implementation agreement, current
direction for use and management of the reserve is spelled out in great detail by the public use
plan approved by the commission in June of 2000, and formally adopted by the BLM in 2002
after extensive public input and NEPA analysis. The county expects, and the General Plan
strongly recommends, that the documents cited above continue to be the basis for the day-to-day
management of the new NCA and the county plans to continue to make its resources available to
support a collaborative approach in developing the NCA management plan called for in the
legislation. Moreover, it is essential that the federal government recognize the Section 10 permit
issued to the county under the Endangered Species Act, and support all provisions of the HCP
developed in support of the permit. The economic and ecological well being of the county is
dependent upon this plan and its continuation.

The Omnibus Lands Act of March 30, 2009, also created the 68,000 acre Beaver Dam Wash
NCA in the very southwest corner of the county. The act states that the purpose of the NCA is
"to conserve, protect, and enhance for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future
                                                 33
generations the ecological, scenic, wildlife, recreational, cultural, historical, natural, educational,
and scientific resources of the NCA." The area designated overlaps the BLM'        s Beaver Dam
Wash area of environmental concern and numerous other public lands used for grazing, outdoor
recreation, wildlife habitat, watershed, the major utility corridors, a major transportation corridor,
and desert research. The NCA includes private lands, numerous state owned lands, BYU'          s Lytle
ranch facility, the Joshua Tree National Natural Landmark, the Woodbury Desert Study Research
Area and significant amounts of desert tortoise critical habitat. The Kern River corridor is a
nationally significant corridor that contains multiple high voltage transmission lines, gas lines,
and fiber optic lines. The corridor is designated in BLM'   s 1999 St. George RMP, and in the
Department of Energy'    s Westside Corridor Plan and EIS. It forms a major route for transmission
of fuel and electricity from the Intermountain Region to major markets in southern Nevada and
southern California. It is also the likely corridor to be used for transmission of electricity
emanating from planned and potential wind and solar facilities in Utah and Wyoming, including
Washington County. It will be crucial in meeting goals for western states intent on maximizing
development of renewable energy resources. Therefore it is paramount that the corridor
continues to be made available for the purposes for which it was established. New restrictions
on the corridor cannot be justified simply because of the NCA designation. Washington County
will vigorously defend the corridor'  s legitimate use. The General Plan would recommend that
the management of this corridor remain under the management of the BLM, outside of the
jurisdiction of the NCA.

In like measure, it is essential to the health, safety, and welfare of Washington County that
physical, motorized access be maintained to all private, state, and federal lands where facilities
and operations require such access to continue essential activities, including emergency access
for law enforcement, fire fighting, search and rescue, and ongoing economic activity such as
livestock grazing, watershed management, flood control, stream monitoring, water
developments, communications, and wildlife habitat improvements. Washington County
understands the need for special natural area management in those areas of the NCA that have
unique values that warrant a light hand on the land. The county does not support, nor can it
tolerate, a complete closure of areas to government officials, permit holders, legitimate operators,
and the general public simply to satisfy the demands of any special interest group that desires to
close public lands to all forms of human use provided for in current state and federal law and
existing land use plans. The county accepted an NCA designation on the Beaver Dam Slope in
lieu of numerous designated wilderness areas so as to preserve options for compatible uses
throughout major numerous designated wilderness areas so as to preserve options for compatible
uses throughout major portions of the area. The county is willing and anxious to promote a
collaborative approach to managing the lands and resources within the NCA in concert with
BLM, the State of Utah, and private managing or lands and resources within the NCA in concert
with BLM, the State of Utah, and private land in-holders. That the county is able to do so is
amply demonstrated in the manner in which it has led the planning and management of the Red
Cliffs Desert Reserve, now encompassed within the Red Cliffs NCA, since 1996. The county
will insist that management plans developed for the Beaver Dam Slope NCA give proper respect
and consideration to the General Plan and all other applicable state and local plans in accordance
with Section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976. It is critical that the
BLM recognize the legitimate needs of the citizens most dependent on the access to and use of
the public lands within its jurisdiction. The county expects that, as the representative of the
                                                  34
federal government, the BLM be forthright and early in its notifications to the county as to plans
for land use changes in the NCA and involve the county in a meaningful way as a partner in
making any such changes.

The General Plan supports developed and primitive recreational and organized camping facilities
on BLM land. The county will work with the BLM to review the BLM land, and to determine
whether or not there may be additional areas that could be developed in the future. Any potential
future sites will become a part of the General Plan.

Fire Management:

Fire management on public land is one area in which the General Plan does not support many of
the current public policies for fire management. Fire management on public land includes three
general areas. These are discussed by the General Plan as follows:

1. When fire threatens lives, property, or public safety, the county supports the policy to
suppress fires that could become a threat to the health, safety, and welfare of the public. This
policy should be continued and extended to other management areas, such as those described
below.

2. General wildfires include lighting strikes, accidental fires, etc., and prescribed burns. The
General Plan agrees that there will be wildfires from time to time, especially in wet summer
seasons, and the plan also agrees that from time to time, after consultation with state, local and
other federal land managers, that a prescribed burn might be useful in improving range
conditions and improving grazing. In past years chaining was also an alternative to prescribed
burns. The General Plan recommends that the public land managers look for new and improved
means of fire management and suppression that would protect the natural resources, including air
quality. The General Plan recommends that in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of
the public, wild land fires, with the possible exception of a limited prescribed burn or other types
of burns should be suppressed as quickly as possible with the least damage to, and loss of,
burned acreage.

This policy of fire suppression says nothing about the air quality that was so bad that, from the
City of St. George, the Pine Valley Mountains were invisible for days at a time because of the
thick smoke from the fire. There was no thought to the protection of air quality for the residents
of the county. Local forest authorities could to nothing about the fire because of a faulty federal
fire control policy.

Another fire that burned at nearly the same time occurred in the new Zion National Park
wilderness area. This fire was also very small at the outset, but under federal fire management
policy, it was allowed to burn uncontrolled until the fire had burned hundreds of acres, and filled
the county with smoke for weeks before the fire was finally suppressed. The General Plan
condemns this policy as being irresponsible and adverse to the public interest. It is not in the
interest of protecting the general health, safety, and welfare of the residents of this county.
Several fires in California had the same effect on Washington County in 2008 and again in 2009.

                                                 35
The county finds it reprehensible that the federal government makes a big issue out of using a
vast natural resource, coal, to generate power from which smoke stacks produce a plume made
up mostly of steam and water vapor, and yet sees nothing is wrong in letting fires burn for days
and weeks, which, along with California fires burning at the same time, filled the valleys of
Washington County with smoke for months.

Through much of the summers of 2008 and 2009 the air quality has been closer to Class IV air
than to class I or II. Uncontrolled fires spew more pollutants into the atmosphere when allowed
to burn uncontrolled, than a coal fired power plant will contribute during the life of the Power
Plant.




                                                36
Section IV.

The National Forest:
General:
Of the National Forests located in the State of Utah, the Dixie National Forest is the largest of
the six forests. It covers over two million acres in six counties; Garfield, Iron, Kane, Piute,
Wayne, and Washington County. The headquarters for the Dixie National Forest is in Cedar
City, Iron County, which is adjacent to Washington County on the north. Of the two million
acres in the Dixie National Forest, 346,356 acres of the forest are in Washington County which
total a little over 17% of the total Dixie National Forest. That portion of the National Forest in
this county is included in the Pine Valley Ranger District and amounts to 22.27 % of the land in
the county.

The Pine Valley Ranger District, with headquarters in the City of St. George, lies south of the
Washington / Iron county line and west of Interstate 15 Freeway, and extends westward to the
Nevada border. Included in the Pine Valley District are two designated wilderness areas. These
include the Pine Valley Mountain wilderness area designated in 1984, and the Cottonwood
Forest wilderness area designated in 2009 as a part of the Washington County Growth and
Conservation Act enacted by Congress.

There are two wilderness areas together result in over 15 % of the total forest land in the county.
Most of the remaining acreage in the forest is classified for multiple use purposes.

Next to the Bureau of Land Management, the National Forest is the largest public land holding in
the county. The National Park also makes up a large area in the county, as does the collective
acres overseen by various agencies of the State of Utah. Each of these areas will also be
discussed as a part of the General Plan.

Even though there are different public land managers in the county, they have many things in
common with each other, including the fact that whichever agencies the county may be dealing
with, the same residents of the county are affected by the decisions of the agency.

Many years ago the Governor of Utah organized a group named the Southern Utah Planning
Authorities Council (SUPAC) for the purpose of resolving problems between the county and
various federal and state agencies. The original effort was so successful that the program
gradually spread to the adjacent counties making the SUPAC organization essentially a five-
county organization. This is not to suggest that the organization has not served a very useful
purpose. Regular meetings’ involving the public land managers is a very useful tool in
implementing planning efforts in the region.

It does no good to work with all of the public agencies in preparing this General Plan, if we
never again meet together once this plan and other similar agency plans are completed if they are
never again coordinated. Only through regular coordination can any of these plans be successful.
                                                37
It is not the intent of the General Plan to quote the forest resource management plan as a part of
this document. The county is generally in support of the resource management plan adopted by
the National Forest as it relates to Washington County. There are some areas of disagreement
with the forest plan. These areas mostly involve federal directives relating to such things as road
less areas, livestock grazing, and fire control over which local ranger districts have no control.
The various facets of the forest plan will be mentioned as a part of the General Plan. Where
differences exist, they will be identified. In areas where the county is in support of the forest
plan, the section of the forest plan will simply be mentioned with no objections expressed.

Transportation:

Because of overlapping issues facing the county and the public agencies, the General Plan
recommends that public land managers read all sections of the plan dealing with the other public
agencies. Many issues of concern or interest to one public agency may be discussed in the
section dealing with that agency, and issues that will impact other agencies maybe discussed in
other areas of the General Plan. Most often these issues are not repeated in the discussion of the
plan with each agency individually.

One such issue has to do with developing the county transportation plan. A person cannot travel
far in this county without crossing lands managed by other agencies. For this reason, the General
Plan has spent considerable time in preparing a circulation plan throughout the county. This plan
obviously involves land overseen by all public land managers.

The General Plan of circulation in the county takes different forms. One transportation map
includes all major arterial and collector roads in the county no matter what land they cross. The
plan will contain these road maps as a part of each section of the plan, particularly the forest and
BLM sections. However, more time is spent discussing where the major roads are located, etc.,
in Section III than in any other section. The reader is referred to that section to get the most
information about roads and transportation. But the questions of roads and their importance
relate to each section of the plan because they all relate together into one whole.

The General Plan contains the following road maps:

       1.      Map of Arterial and collector roads.
       2.      Map of special purpose roads.
       3.      Map of off road vehicle roads
       4.      Map of riding and hiking trails that are - non-motorized
       5.      Map of current and future utility routes

These maps relate to all land management agencies in the county. The county is interested in the
proper upkeep and maintenance of roads on forest land. The recommendation of the General
Plan is that following the approval of this plan that forest officials and county officials meet
together to review the maintenance of roads in Washington County and review the maintenance
responsibility of the forest service and the county. If revisions need to be made as to who might

                                                 38
be responsible for maintenance of a specific roadway, the maintenance agreement should be
amended and updated.

Changes in the management, maintenance, and classification, of roadway usage are of concern to
the county. The General Plan recommends that forest officials and county officials meet to
discuss any proposed change to the usage of any road on the forest land, and the change should
be agreed upon by both entities before it takes place. The county is willing to meet anytime to
discuss forest road issues as a partner in forest management and has appreciated the cooperation
and involvement with forest management up to this point, with hope that it will continue.

Wilderness:

One of the first wilderness designations in Utah was made in 1984 when the top of the Pine
Valley Mountains was designated by Congress as wilderness. This area included some 50,000
acres. As a part of the Washington County Growth and Conservation Act of 2009, another 2,643
acres was designated on the National Forest in the south-east corner of the Dixie National Forest
adjacent to the BLM Cottonwood Wilderness area and was designated as the Cottonwood Forest
wilderness area. All of the other wilderness areas are on Bureau of Land Management land
along with most of Zion National Park.

The county concurs with the county land bill that the Cottonwood Forest Wilderness area fits
well with the BLM Cottonwood wilderness Area. For that reason, the county recommended that
it be included in the act of Congress. The county also agreed with Congress that this county has
been studied no end for wilderness designations and enough is enough. The General Plan says
emphatically, "Study this county no more." The General Plan feels that this statement applies to
any and all public land in Washington County.

Vegetative, Hydrological, and Geological Features:

The variety of vegetation on the forest is reflective of the soils, climatic patterns, disturbance,
histories, and elevation of which there is significant variation within the county. Lower
elevations contain Pinion pine and juniper with some bristlecone pine in the northwest portion of
the county. Other elevations contain ponderosa pine with quaking aspen at the higher elevations.
The type of vegetation is dependent upon water and elevation. Elevations in Washington County
vary from lows of 2,600 feet near the southern end of the county, to over 10,000 feet in the Pine
Valley Mountain area.

More recently, as a result of some fires, cheat grass has become the predominant vegetation
instead of other historic types of ground foliage. This growth of grass could be controlled by the
proper use of livestock grazing in the spring when this grass is still green, and when it could
provide forage for livestock. By removing livestock from the historical range, the forest
encourages more frequent and more devastating fires in the future. The General Plan does not
support the current grazing policies that have resulted in most of the livestock being removed
from the public range.


                                                39
Washington County has not seen the same degree of plant loss because of insect infestations as
some other parts of the Dixie National Forest have seen. Where insect injury has caused the loss
of large trees, the forest should make every effort to harvest these trees to receive some
economic benefit from their existence.

The average rainfall in the forest areas of the county range from about 8 inches in lower
elevations to over 25 inches on higher locations.

Precipitation mostly comes from snow in the higher elevations during winter months and from
summer storms from mid-July through mid-September. These summer storms are generally
associated with lightning which makes these summer months subject to lightning fires and flash
flooding which are most destructive to the forest land in the county. The General Plan suggests
that such fires can be minimized by proper grazing management throughout the forest.

Geographically, the Dixie National Forest is on the divide between the Colorado Plateau and the
Mojave Desert. In Washington County the Dixie National Forest lies south of the Great Basin.

Wildlife:

There is a great variety of wildlife on the forest in Washington County. This includes deer, elk,
cougar, and many smaller varieties of animals. While there are a few fishing opportunities on
the forest in the county, they are somewhat limited, but good where these opportunities exist.
The major fishing activity takes place at the Enterprise reservoirs and the Pine Valley reservoir.
There are streams where fishing is available, but it is limited. Many of the streams in
Washington County are seasonal and are dry during some months of the year.

Many varieties of birds are found on the Dixie National Forest, including Eagles, smaller raptors,
and other bird species.

Recreation:

The forest in Washington County supports a broad spectrum of recreational activities. These
opportunities for recreation include camping, hiking, horseback riding, OHV use, hunting,
fishing, wildlife viewing, wood cutting, nut gathering, and viewing of scenic landscapes. It is
easy to see the importance of the forest land in this county to both county residents and to
visitors who come to the county to participate in many of these recreational pursuits.

Because of the proximity of the forest land in Washington County to non forest areas in adjacent
states where the desert landscape predominates, the National Forest in this county also provides
extensive forest experience to many of our neighbors. This further emphasizes the importance of
maintaining as much of the forest land as possible for multiple use purposes. The General Plan
is very emphatic in declaring that the remaining forest lands in the county continue to remain as
multiple use land because Washington County provides forest recreation opportunities not only
for our own residents, but for residents of Nevada and parts of Arizona as well. This growing
need for forest recreation opportunities, of which the county is already well aware, places a

                                                40
significantly increased demand on the forest land in the county. This issue places additional
pressure on the forest wilderness land in this county.

One national recreation trail, the Whipple Trail, in the Pine Valley Mountains is on a National
Register which attracts many additional forest users to the county than would otherwise come
here if the forest use was limited to residents of this county.

There are a number of improved campgrounds on forest land in the county. One of these is Oak
Grove on the southeast slope of the Pine Valley Mountain. The most prominent site and most
heavily used camp ground is the Pine Valley campground adjacent to Pine Valley Townsite.
Many of the camp sites in this campground are being re-configured to remove them from live
stream and riparian locations. There are some camping facilities adjacent to the Enterprise
reservoirs west of the city of Enterprise. Further west near the Nevada border is the Pine Park
campground, which contains no water or sanitation facilities. The General Plan recommends
that the Forest Service review forest land for the possibility of establishing additional developed
camp sites that might could be developed in the county. Obviously, funding to develop camping
facilities is a problem. However, if the plan is good, time will provide a way for additional
organized camps to be developed.

Historic Sites:

The National Forest in Washington County also contains a number of historic sites. These
include historic town sites such as Pine Valley town, Hebron, and Pinto. There are sawmill sites
around Pine Valley, cemeteries in Pine Valley, Pinto, and Hebron, etc., recreation sites,
administrative sites, CCC (civilian conservation corps) projects, homesteads, ranches, camps,
roads, and trails throughout the forest. The General Plan supports the identification, and
preservation, of these sites, and in making efforts to make them more accessible and available for
visitation by the public.

Some visitors to the forest find solitude in the Pine Valley Mountains or the Cottonwood Forest
Wilderness area. Each serves a useful purpose, and is a part of the great variety of experiences
that exist in the forest in Washington County.

Management Challenges:

There are always challenges to the management of the forest land in the county. Some factors
include fire suppression, livestock grazing, vegetation changes, introduction of noxious weeds
and other invasive plants, and the risk of insect infestation. Washington County welcomes the
opportunity to work with forest managers to address these challenges and to assist in finding
solutions that will protect the forest resource in the county for continued use by residents and
visitors. The General Plan previously recommended steps that should be taken to allow the
county leaders to work closely with land managers to continue to establish healthy conditions on
the public lands in the county. The county administration is always available and welcomes the
opportunity to be a player with the forest managers in continuing to manage this valuable
resource.

                                                41
Demographics:

The growth in population in the western United States has placed increased demands on the use
of public lands. The use of forest land has increased proportionately. Much use comes from
growing populations centers in northern Utah and southern Nevada. Washington County is the
nearest neighbor to southern Nevada with the recreation opportunities found in the national
forest. The demands for use of forest lands are not always compatible. Motorized and non-
motorized users are sometimes in conflict with one another. There are many conflicts and
challenges brought on by increased population. Washington County welcomes the opportunity
to work with forest and all public land managers to meet the challenge of population growth.

The forest lands in the county provide a significant economic benefit to the county. This
includes food and fiber production, mineral production, and recreation activities that contribute
to the sustainability of communities. Sometimes these activities have conflicted with resource
goals related to wildlife, watershed protection, and vegetation. The challenge is to manage the
forest in a way that continues to provide economic opportunities and sustains the forest system.

Water:

Most of the ground water sources in the county originate on the National Forest. It may take
years for water to percolate through the ground to springs and wells in the lower valleys, but the
moisture originates in the mountain elevations. The demand for water resources continues to
grow.

Water is important to the resources that the forest manages as well as the social and economic
opportunities that water provides. It will be a continual challenge to provide sufficient water for
healthy watersheds, aquatic species, wildlife, and vegetation, while also providing water for the
needs of local communities and traditional rural activities. Washington County, through the
Water Conservancy District, is aware of the need to provide additional water sources and
reserves for use in Washington County. Benefits could come not only to the residents of the
county in the form of culinary water for residential, commercial and industrial use, but also to the
public land managers. Additional water could assist in maintaining riparian and wetland areas.
The availability of water also improves water tables, and extends mountain streams to the valley
floor. It could provide water resources for additional organized campground development, and
provide resources for other uses on the public lands. This is a project that the General Plan
supports for the benefit of all of Washington County. An important policy on the forest lands is
to, "cooperate with states, other federal agencies, local governments, tribal governments,
stakeholders, and holders of valid water rights to provide mutually beneficial programs for
restoring, maintaining, and utilizing water resources." The General Plan is in support of this
policy.

Minerals:

The number of locatable mineral deposits is generally limited on forest land in the county. If
there are developable sand and gravel resources on forest land, these need to be identified for

                                                42
future development as needed. Other mineral development in the county should be done
according to current forest policies and guidelines.

While timber exists on much of the forest in Washington County, little timber harvesting occurs
except for cedar posts, Christmas trees, wood cutting for personal and family use. These uses
should be continued.

Fire and Fuels:

The General Plan went into some detail relative to fire management on public lands in
Washington County in Section III of the General Plan regarding BLM lands. Recognizing that
current federal laws guide fire management, particularly in wilderness areas, the county is
opposed to current policy in order to protect the air quality in the county. The county has
adopted the fire management policy regarding defensible space around building development in
or near the National Forest. The Forest Service has cooperated with the county in promoting
these fire protection policies. The county will continue to work with the forest officials in
protecting common boundaries between the forest and private development.

Threatened and Endangered Species:

With the possible exception of the new Cottonwood Forest wilderness area, there are no tortoises
on forest land because of the higher elevations on forest land. The Virgin River Fishes Recovery
Plan should also be implemented where applicable to Forest Service activities where feasible.
Other T & E species should also be managed on the forest in cooperation and coordination with
county officials and other land managers.

Rangeland and Grazing Management:

Grazing of livestock in Washington County as well as most of the western Unites States has been
overseen by federal policy which is basically to remove all livestock from the public lands in this
country. Management of the range for the beneficial use of the land by livestock hardly seems to
enter in. Invasive species, particularly the cheat grass invasion of recent years could be put to
beneficial use through springtime grazing. The management and prevention of infestations of
noxious weeds and other invasive plants could be managed through proper grazing management.

The General Plan strongly recommends that forest managers and land managers utilize a more
enlightened method of protecting the environment, preventing fires and improving range
management. The General Plan considers that the national policy on livestock grazing is a
political position and has little to do with good range management and everything to do with
removing all livestock from the public range. This is an avowed goal of the environmental
community. There is no one size fits all policy relative to range management in the west that fits
every situation. The General Plan is opposed to this faulty policy.




                                                43
Section V.
Zion National Park
Zion National Park is one of the most important economic and ecologic assets in Washington
County. The Park possesses scenic, geologic, natural, recreational, and historic characteristics of
national significance. It is a major destination point with annual visitation exceeding 2.6 million
people. Visitors reflect local, regional, national, and international origins. While the park is
treasured by local citizens who frequent the park for its abundant recreation opportunities and for
its spectacular cliffs, canyons, peaks, and rock formations, it draws tens of thousands from within
the United States and foreign visitors each year from Asia, Europe, Latin America, Canada, and
other locations throughout the world who find the park offers a spiritual uplift and an out-of-
world experience unlike any other in their home countries. The economic benefit to the county
is enormous, and supports a vibrant tourist industry throughout much of the year involving
lodging, dining, transportation, guide services, ecotourism, cultural education, outdoor
recreation, and other support services. The economic effects are felt through times of strong
national economies as well as times of weak economies as groups and families look for less
expensive options closer to their homes for meeting travel plans and annual vacations.

At 132,449.40 acres, Zion National Park comprises about 9 percent of the total land area within
Washington County. Therefore, how the park is managed has a substantial impact on the
citizens who live here, and those who come to the park for recreation purposes. Over the past
few decades, park managers have extended their vision to look at impacts from park operations
outside of the park' s boundaries. In so doing, they successfully planned and implemented an
innovative shuttle system both in and out of the park to minimize impacts to critical resources
from overcrowding and growing vehicle use. This system also provides Springdale with an
added economic boost to handle the growing number of visitors. These plans were fully
coordinated with community leaders, county officials, and the general public. The system has
proven to be a model for other areas throughout the country and complements other park
initiatives in reducing energy consumption and making great strides in incorporating renewable
energy into their facility development program. The community of Springdale continues to
enjoy a relationship of cooperation and coordination with park managers and staff who regularly
meet with town officials to resolve matters of common interest and share knowledge and
resources in improving the quality of life and in celebrating their joint success. The General Plan
recommends that a somewhat similar system be established between park officials and county
leaders to address any concerns that may arise. This would also allow the county to be more
supportive of the concerns and needs of the Park. Elsewhere in this Plan the General Plan has
recommended the creation of a county organization involving county leaders and public land
managers to meet on a regular basis for just this purpose. This organization would be outside of
the SUPAC group that meets to discuss multi-county issues. Such a group as is suggested by the
General Plan now would allow the county and the public land managers and the park
Superintendent to focus on plans and problems that should be considered within the county and
which do not involve the other counties. In the case of park transportation, the General Plan
supports this coordination and encourages its continuation. The county will continue to support
                                                44
the collaborative efforts of all communities within the Zion corridor leading to the southwest
entrance to the park in developing joint plans for transportations enhancements, improved
marketing, and appropriate tourist amenities within the corridor. Among other things, these
would include a potential transit system between the park and the county'    s urban corridor to
foster a reduction in individual vehicle use, improved air quality, and less expensive options for
park and private sector employees who commute long distances at considerable expense, as was
recommended by the Vision Dixie study. These considerations also include a thorough study of
the benefits to be derived from a scenic byway designation along State route 9 to improve the
level of attractions outside of the park. One of these attractions is the Grafton Ghost town which
was once considered for access from the state highway rather than from a long alternate route
through the town of Rockville. The General Plan recommends that this plan be re-considered as
a part of the development of the scenic by-way. Such things might improve the marketing and
the ability to provide new funding sources for corridor improvements and visitor attractions
outside of the park.

The county recognizes the importance of the unique landscape that comprises the Zion Corridor
to the visitor experience and the special sense of place felt by the residents who dwell within the
corridor. The county is supportive of collaborative efforts to preserve those values intrinsic to
the corridor and the communities that exist along the state highway. Abundant opportunities
exist to display, interpret, and enjoy the many cultural, historical, scenic, recreational, and
geological assets that contribute to the quality of life throughout the area. The county recognizes
that protecting critical views into and out of the park is important to the social and economic
welfare of the park, and the park and the surrounding communities. Because protecting such
views impact private, state, and federally owned property outside of the park boundaries, it
essential that any initiative to create areas of visual sensitivity be fully collaborated with all
effected parties, including park and county leaders. The county expressly rejects the concept of
imposing an arbitrary buffer zone around the entire boundary of the park to satisfy special
interests with narrow agendas intent on limiting legitimate use of private, state, and/or public
lands as provided by state and federal law. Buffer zones around wilderness areas were
specifically prohibited by the Congressional bill. The county would propose extensive public
involvement be promoted by county and park officials and the views of affected citizens be
considered before proposals for view-shed protection are made by land managers of any agency
having jurisdiction in this area. As the county has done throughout the General Plan, it extends
the same cooperative attitude to the National Park anytime that there are specific issues that need
to be mitigated outside the park boundary. The county believes that most areas of concern can
be resolved by joint effort, in the same manner as the transportation problem inside the park was
resolved by joint effort and cooperation and coordination several years ago. Such discussions
need to fully consider the impacts of any designation upon the economic well being of county
citizens on the ability of the people to access, use, and appropriately develop their lands where
otherwise provided by law and customs.

The county believes that the current mixed land ownership pattern in the Zion corridor and in
other areas surrounding the park can complicate the process of promoting efficient development
of state, private, and municipal properties, and for providing essential services to the local
residents in the eastern part of the county. Past discussions with state and federal managers have
revealed opportunities in the corridor to pursue thoughtfully defined ownership reconfigurations
                                                45
through land exchanges, donations, or other transactions that would help put valuable scenic and
natural resources in the hands of public agencies while making lands highly suitable for
development available for appropriate use in meeting community needs. The General Plan
recommends that the principles of the Vision Dixie study be used to guide such discussions,
especially those principles pertaining to guarding signature landscapes, providing connected
recreation and open space, maintaining air and water quality, directing growth inward toward
existing communities, building balanced transportation systems, and providing focused public
land conversions that sustain community goals and preserve critical lands. To the extent that
such principles are properly employed, the cultural and natural values will give a well-deserved
boost. The county is prepared to be involved in all such deliberations and in any other planning
initiatives involving the park and its relationship with adjoining state or federal agencies and
local communities.

Another major county issue involves the preparation of a circulation plan throughout the county,
In the case of the National Park; the maintenance of roadways is limited. There are two
roadways through the park that are important to the county. These are the State Highway 9 route
that goes through the park and connects with State Highway 89 at Mt. Carmel Junction. The
county supports the park limitations on this roadway, and is happy to consult with park officials
at any time relative to issues regarding this route and any recommendations that might make it
more effective. The other major route involving the National Park is the roadway from the town
of Virgin through the park to access the Kolob area of the county. The Kolob is the largest block
of privately owned land in Washington County. It is critical to the county that this road be
maintained and made available for access to the Kolob area. Some parts of this roadway are
dangerous because of the topography and the narrow width of the roadway. The General Plan
recommends that the county and the park Superintendent review this route together, and in light
of the width of the allowable right-of-way allowed for roadways through wilderness areas,
consider a long-rang plan of road improvements to the Kolob road. Inasmuch as the county
maintains county roads in the Kolob area, consideration could be given to improving, and/or
maintaining portions the roadway through the park. The General Plan recommends that this is
one issue that could be considered more fully through regular communication with the park
officials.

The area contained in Zion National Park was originally private land. When the park was
created, a number of private parcels remained inside the park boundary. Over the years some of
these parcels have been acquired by the National Park. The General Plan would recommend that
the Park continue to acquire these parcels as they become available for purchase. In the
meantime, the General Plan states that all private property inside the park boundary must be
provided access to their property even though the park property around these properties is a
designated wilderness area.

At the time that wilderness study areas were identified and proposed, a small BLM wilderness
area was proposed in the Watchman area to eventually be included inside the park. In reviewing
the proposed wilderness area, the county recommended adding an additional ten acre parcel to
the watchman area. This was approved last spring by Congress with the proposed county
addition, and is now part of Zion National Park.

                                               46
There were additional small wilderness areas proposed adjacent to the park in the Kolob area.
Most of these were very small parcels immediately adjacent to the park boundary. The only
reason that they were not included inside the park was the fact that they provide hunting, fishing,
and some limited livestock grazing, all of which would have been eliminated if they were
included in the park boundary. Practically speaking, the General Plan would support
management agreements between park and BLM managers that would allow the National Park to
manage these areas along with the rest of the park, with the exception identified above relative to
recreation purposes. This issue for management purposes would require further consideration
between the park, BLM, and the county.

The General Plan repeats the desire and willingness of the county to coordinate with the park
whenever issues arise which could involve mutual effort. The park is a crown jewel in
Washington County, and should be protected and enhanced wherever possible.




                                                47
Section VI.

School and Institutional Trust Lands:
Background:

On January 4, 1896, Utah was granted statehood and became the nation'    s 45th state. At the time
statehood was granted, four sections of land in each township in the state were designated as
school trust land, with added acreage for 11 other beneficiaries. The Utah School and
Institutional Trust Lands Administration was created to manage 12 real estate trusts. Since then,
about half of the land granted has been sold to private owners. Cash from the sale of those lands
was deposited into the permanent funds of the beneficiaries.

Trust lands include both surface and mineral rights. In addition, there are mineral only lands in
the trust, for a total of 4.5 million acres of mineral lands. The school trust owns 95% of all the
Utah Trust Land. Some counties in the state have large amounts of trust land, while others do
not.

The beneficiaries of the trust do not include other governmental institutions or agencies, the
public at large, or the general welfare of the state. The state accepted the grant in the Utah
Constitution, thereby creating a compact between the federal and state governments which
imposes upon the state a perpetual trust obligation to which standard trust obligations are
applied. All funds received go into a trust for the use of the schools in the state.

Current Land Use:

In Washington County there are currently 78,572.34 acres of school trust lands still managed by
the trust. Over the years three of the 11 other beneficiaries to the trust lands have used selection
rights to select land in the county. These include the Miner'  s hospital (land in the Coral Canyons
area), Utah State University (several small parcels of land), and the University of Utah (several
small parcels of land).

Land in Utah is divided into townships with each township and range containing 36 sections of
land. The school sections are scattered in each of the townships with 4 sections being owned by
the trust lands in each township. This makes it difficult to properly plan for and manage the trust
lands because they are scattered throughout the county.

Much of the school trust land is in areas where there are no public services available, and where
the trust sections are surrounded by public land, most of which is managed by the BLM. There
has been mineral development on some of these sections of land; the primary use on the various
isolated sections has been for the purpose of livestock grazing. Even many of these grazing
lands, because of a lack of water, have not been high producers of revenue for the school trust.


                                                 48
Over the years, some of these scattered sections have been consolidated into larger blocks of land
which facilitates better management and development options. Federal designation of lands such
as Zion National Park, and the recent wilderness lands in the county have captured trust lands
within their boundaries. The trust land inside the National Park has been traded out of the Park
for land in other areas. There are still trust lands in the recent wilderness areas that will need to
be traded for lands elsewhere in the county. The same holds true for the National Conservation
Areas recently created. The trading of lands with the federal agencies has been a significant
challenge for the trust lands administration over the years. Disagreements over appraised values,
changing federal policies, endless delays in completing and reviewing documents, and prolific
appeals of federal decisions by special interest groups, frustrate efforts to reach a sound, timely
and equitable conclusion for each transaction. Congressional support will be needed to make
progress in resolving the loss of economic opportunities and corresponding restrictions on land
use.

The management and proper disposition of School Trust Lands is of great significance to
Washington County. What is done on or with the trust lands impacts the county economy,
overall land use, major infrastructure, and quality of life. With about nine percent of the county
land base owned by the School Trust Administration, it has become increasingly essential for
Trust Land development to be fully coordinated with the county and with local municipalities
who are directly affected.

In recent years, the School Trust has become more proactive in consolidating its ownership in
areas of high potential for development and in assembling development initiatives with private
partners. The developments have been of high quality, and are valuable additions to the
communities in which they occur. However, the need for long-range planning to adequately
prepare for such developments is paramount, particularly to account for transportations needs,
schools, recreation facilities, effective zoning, utilities, opens pace, and consistency with county
and community goals and visions.

Planning for the Future:

The General Plan recommends that efforts be made to include local governments at the earliest
possible time when development proposals are being made to or by the trust lands administration
so that the local governing body can be better prepared to participate in the planning process in
trust land development. The county stands willing at any time to discuss land development
proposals with the trust administration whenever a proposal is being considered in order to ease
the problems of how to deal with development after the fact when the lands have already been
transferred or leased by the State Trust Lands Administration. The county is to work with the
administration to help facilitate development of the trust lands, and to discuss future planning on
the part of the administration to help guide the future of the trust land in the county.

Where valuable minerals exist on the trust land, particularly sand or gravel which has become
increasingly difficult to locate, the county may be interested leasing some of this land for future

mineral development to sustain county operations. Such sites should also be made available to
local governments and private development to help maintain facilities and to grow the economy.
                                                 49
Another area in which the county and the Trust Lands Administration have had some preliminary
discussion, is the possibility of trading some of the trust land in this county for land or interest in
other counties where the potential for mineral development is much higher than it is in
Washington County. This is an area that should be explored further between the county and trust
managers. It has the potential of benefiting both parties by providing mineral development and
bringing more income to the school trust while at the same providing a share of the mineral
royalties to the county. The General Plan recommends that this concept be discussed further and
possibly pursued to the benefit of both groups.

In updating the General Plan, the county has developed an extensive transportation plan for the
county which is discussed in other sections of this plan, particularly in Section III dealing with
the Bureau of Land Management. The county has made every effort in preparing this plan to
make sure that road access is provided to all scattered parcels of trust land in the county, and
maintained on all existing trust lands.

Washington County has appreciated its association with the State School and Institutional Trust
Lands Administration. The county would hope that good communication and cooperation and
coordination with the state will continue long into the future.




                                                  50
Section VII.

Private Land in Washington County:

Introduction:

Washington County contains an "island" of private land surrounded by public land. Of the
1,555,021.31 acres of land in the county, only 246,640.31 acres, or 16.5 % of the land is
privately owned, and the balance is under jurisdiction of one of the public land agencies. This is
the reason that the General Plan contains an extensive section dealing with the public lands. A
person cannot go far in this county without being on the public lands of one jurisdiction or
another.

Table I. shows the relationship between the land within the cities and towns and the
unincorporated land in the county in terms of acres in each area, and the percentage of the
limited land in each category. It should be noted that 24% of the private land in the county is
located in the Kolob area which is currently only available for seasonal use.


                                         Table I
          Private Land           Acres     % 0f Total Area % of Total Private
          Total Private            249,884            16%              100%
          Incorporated Private      96,986             6%                39%
          Unincorporated Private   152,896            10%                61%
          Kolob Private             59,003             4%                24%
          Total land in county   1,555,021


Washington County is not an "urban service" county. That is, along with all counties in Utah
except for Salt Lake County, Washington County does not provide urban services including
water, power, sewer, etc., to development in the same fashion as an incorporated city does. For
this reason, Washington County has historically encouraged development to take place within
city boundaries wherever possible. For this reason, it is possible to drive from Springdale on the
east to Ivins on the west with only about two miles of the distance between Rockville and Virgin
being in the unincorporated area. The rest is in one or another incorporated city.

Each incorporated city or town is responsible for its own planning and development. The county
has no planning authority over these cities and towns. The areas that are included in the General
Plan of Washington County are those areas of the county that are not close enough to a city to
have been incorporated and are still under the jurisdiction of the county. Some of these areas
have considered incorporation at various times in the past, but have presently chosen to remain
unincorporated. Some areas of the county may yet choose to incorporate in the future.


                                                51
General Public Service Information:

While Washington County itself does not provide public services to the unincorporated areas of
the county, most of these areas do have access to public services. These services are generally
provided by other public or private entities that provide services to the unincorporated areas of
the county.

Following is a list of the public services that are provided to all or part of the unincorporated
areas of the county. They are listed by the service provided.

Water Development:

Historically, most developed areas in the unincorporated part of the county have been located
where water was accessible. Where water was not available, some areas have been primarily
used for grazing or dry farming.

"Dry" subdivisions have not been approved in the county for the past 40 years. The saying went,
"If you have water, you may develop. If you don' t, you graze livestock." That saying relative to
subdivision development is, if anything, more correct now than at any other time in the last forty
years.

Water development in subdivisions has historically taken one of two forms. In some cases the
land developer has created a developer-owned water company to provide water for each lot in
the subdivision. The other often-used option is for the developer to create a water company and
to deed shares of ownership to the owners of each lot in the subdivision. This method is referred
to as a mutual water company wherein the land owners also become the owners of the water
company. The county, the State Department of Environmental Quality and the Southwest Utah
Public Health Department have jointly set the minimum quantity of water required to be supplied
for each lot, and require that developments meet state standards for water quality.

Most of the currently developed culinary water in the unincorporated areas of the county comes
from springs and wells. The highest quality of water in the county comes from the geologic
formation called "Navajo Sandstone." This formation covers much of the central part of the
county. There are a number of communities developed over the Navajo formation. This creates
a potential for contamination of the ground water source. Once contaminated, it may take years
or be impossible to remove the contamination. It would be much better to do whatever is
necessary to prevent contamination in the first place. The General Plan recommends that
wherever development exists or is proposed to take place above the Navajo Sandstone formation,
all such developments be connected to one type of sewage disposal or another, as opposed to the
continued use of septic tanks which are in use in most of the county. There are already some
areas of the county where development is in place that has the potential for ground water
contamination.

The above methods of water development and protection have worked reasonably well, except
for the problems of inadequate supply in dry years or inadequate storage capacity to insure

                                                  52
sufficient water in the subdivision. Sometimes a broken pump or pipeline leaves the water
company or water provider without water in the subdivision until the problem is corrected.

The General Plan visualizes a time in the future when all water companies in the county and
those in the cities and towns will be connected together. When one area runs short of water,
water could then come to the system from another source by turning on a valve. When the
system is up and running again, the valve is closed and the system again relies on its own water.
Some steps toward this end have already begun to take place. More is needed county-wide.

The Washington County Water Conservancy District is a political subdivision of the State of
Utah organized and existing under the Utah Water Conservancy District Act. The Water District
was established in 1962 in response to a petition signed by the property owners of Washington
County. The Water District is charged with conserving, developing, managing and stabilizing
water supplies within the county. In accordance with state law, the seven members of the
District'
        s Board of Trustees are appointed to four-year staggered terms by the Washington
County Commission. The openings are announced by legal notices and applicants are evaluated
by the commissioners. The County has traditionally selected board members so that they
represent all areas of the county.

The Water District provides water to over 85% of the people of the County. Most of the people
served with District water supplies are residents of Municipal customers of the District. During
peak summer months, the Water District delivers over 34 million gallons a day to its customers.
While the municipalities continue to manage their water delivery systems, they obtain additional
water from the District as needed.

The Water District is a “special purpose” district, in large part because the business of water is
complicated. Particularly in the West, laws, rules, history, traditions and the complex facts of
hydrologic cycles in desert river systems create layer upon layer of interacting factors. This
specialty is one that many may know a little bit about, but few know a lot about. The Water
District employs a manager to oversee its activities. The staff is hired and supervised in-house,
not as county employees. The decisions that govern the amount, location and type of growth that
generates the demand which the Water District must meet are delegated to elected officials of the
municipalities and the county. The election process, the constitutional mechanism by which
government obtains the “consent of the governed,” ensures that these officials are responsive to
the desires of those who elect them. This way, there is a rational division of duties between an
appointed board that carries special expertise necessary to address the complex issues involved
with water delivery and the elected representatives of the people who make the decisions that
determine the water demand.

The Water District is funded in part through property taxes. These county-wide taxes are
allocated to the Water District based upon the recognition of the broad public purposes for which
water conservancy districts were created, in particular the control and conservation of water that
benefits the community as a whole. Without water, there is no economy. Moreover, the
economic benefits of water supply in the urbanized areas of the county are spread throughout the
county. The broadly-distributed benefits provided by the Water District include managing the
water supply of the Virgin Basin so as to maximize its availability to legitimate users, water
                                                53
conservation programs that are necessary to ensure project approvals, watershed and water
quality protection, water rights settlements that have avoided widespread conflict and addressing
the demands of federal laws and regulations that would otherwise be imposed upon individual
water systems such as the Endangered Species Act and the Clean Water Act. The Water District
has responded to requests for help throughout the county from Enterprise to Rockville. The
Water District seeks to provide the greatest service possible to those who pay taxes to the Water
District, particularly where they are not receiving direct delivery of water from Water District
projects, whether through consultation on water issues and projects or through grants and other
partnerships. Payment of property taxes throughout the county distributes a portion of the costs
to those who will receive services and benefits in the future, rather than forcing current users to
fund programs designed to benefit future users.

In addition, the Water District receives impact fees for water resources made available to its
municipal customers under the Regional Water Supply Agreement (RWSA), first executed in
2006. The cities of Ivins, Santa Clara, St. George, Washington, Hurricane, LaVerkin,
Toquerville and Leeds have all joined the RWSA. The town of Virgin is served by a separate
contract and the Water District also has a contract with Apple Valley to provide certain services.
Other income to the Water District is derived from charges for water delivered to retail and
wholesale customers and from hydropower revenue.

Communities may petition the Water District to obtain supplemental water supplies to serve
additional demand. The Water District'  s response will depend on practical considerations such
as whether there are additional water rights and developable resources that could be
economically developed to serve anticipated demand. The arrangements are generally
memorialized through contracts with water suppliers. The intent of the Water District is not to
take over private or mutual water companies. Rather, it is in a position to provide supplementary
water to these companies when needed and requested. Water District policy opposes takeovers
of local water companies in any area of the county. However, the General Plan recognizes that
sound public policy would support that water service to new development in the county be
provided by the Water District.

Since 1995, the Water District has strongly promoted water conservation throughout the county.
In addition, the Water District has developed facilities necessary to supply the water to serve the
population that has grown at an average rate of 6% since 1962. A number of important water
projects were constructed and are maintained by the Water District. Today the Water District
operates facilities from Kolob to Gunlock, including the Quail Creek Reservoir, Sand Hollow
Reservoir, the Quail Creek Water Treatment Plant, a number of wells throughout the county, a
number of transmission pipelines for culinary and for irrigation water and two hydropower plants
and related infrastructure. Other projects are planned to be constructed in the near future to be
able to continue efficient water resource management, including the Ash Creek Project that will
involve construction of a new reservoir near Anderson Junction and the Warner Valley Reservoir
Project. The General Plan is supportive of these efforts to provide for the water needs of county
residents. The construction of reservoirs and wells at strategic locations in the county also helps
to improve the underground water supply.


                                                54
One project in which the Water District has been involved in planning for many years is the
transfer of water from the state of Utah’s Colorado River water allocation to Washington
County, through the Lake Powell Pipeline Project. The Project is a state project, pursuant to the
Lake Powell Pipeline Development Act, passed in 2006. This state support is consistent with
many projects in northern Utah that have brought water to the Wasatch front areas of the state
that have been very successful.

Under the Colorado River Compact, Utah’s allocation from the Colorado River is approximately
1.4 million acre feet (maf), with about 400 maf that has not yet been depleted by active
diversions. There are limited opportunities to divert water from the Colorado River below the
Uintah Basin so that currently, Utah’s undiverted water rights are flowing down river. The
construction of the Lake Powell Pipeline will provide diversification of water supply to this
county to ensure an adequate water supply in the face of recurrent droughts that may be
exacerbated by climate change. The average annual flow into Lake Powell is about 12 maf,
whereas the average annual flow of the Virgin River is about 130,000 af. However, for human
use, you should only rely on the water that is there at least 90% of the time, which is about 4.5
maf in Lake Powell vs. about 77,000 af in the Virgin River. A supply of 69,000 acre feet from a
total reliable supply of 4.5 maf acre feet (about 1.5%) will be more reliable than a supply of
39,000 acre feet from a total reliable supply of 77,000 af (about 50%). When the Virgin River is
in drought, there will still be water available from the Colorado River in Lake Powell. The Lake
Powell Pipeline will provide for the inevitable demands created by future growth and will help to
ensure that the now existing communities in the county will not run out of water. The General
Plan strongly supports the development of this additional water system.

The Lake Powell Pipeline has been opposed by some groups in the county. They object to
funding a project that could encumber future generations with repayment of the loan to construct
the line. It is true that the people of Washington County will have to pay for the Lake Powell
Pipeline Project, but that repayment is anticipated to take place over 50 or more years and should
be funded almost entirely by new growth. On the other hand, if there is no additional water,
water supplies will be less reliable, our children and grandchildren will not be able to build
homes here and the economy will suffer. No one will have to pay for additional water because
there will be no additional water once we have used up our existing supply. Isn'  t it possible that
the opposition to the Lake Powell Pipeline is really opposition to any future growth and
development in Washington County?

Liquid Waste Disposal:

There is only one sewage system presently in use in Washington County. This system is located
in the Pinion Hills subdivision in Dammeron Valley. This system is in need of improvement to
complete development of the Pinion Hills project.

Currently the wastewater treatment method of necessity in most of the county is septic tanks.
Some years ago the county prepared a plan, with the assistance of the State and other public
agencies, to examine the ground water systems in the county to try to determined the holding
capacity of existing basins where development has taken place. A table was prepared showing
how many additional septic tanks could be approved in each area before the water table might be
                                                 55
compromised. Several areas are close to capacity, or could be over their capacity if a home was
built on each subdivision lot that has been approved. This limits development in the county to
large, single family lots which does not fit with the need for work force housing in the
unincorporated area of the county. The primary work force housing type in the county is the use
of modular housing units which the county will approve in all subdivisions.

By working with the Department of Environmental Quality, the county was able to convince the
State to explore alternative methods of waste disposal. The result of this effort was the approval
of a number of "on site treatment plants" to process effluent as opposed to the use of septic tanks.
This could allow a mixture of development types being able to process the effluent through one
of the alternative methods now approved for developers to use.

The county does not encourage sewer systems for new developments in the county, and in fact
does not necessarily encourage developments in the unincorporated areas. However, where it is
possible to provide the necessary facilities, the county does not oppose such development.

In 2009, the county entered into agreements with the Ash Creek Special Service District and the
Water District establishing responsibility to manage wastewater services throughout the county.
Ash Creek SSD is responsible for the eastern part of the county essentially lying east of Interstate
15 freeway and in the New Harmony valley west of the freeway. The balance of the county
(including the Kolob area east of the freeway) is the responsibility of the Water District. These
agencies may authorize other alternative treatment systems to be used in addition to septic tanks
as development continues in the unincorporated county. The Water District is currently working
on a plan to provide a sewer outfall line from Dammeron Valley to connect to the St. George
City Reuse Treatment Plant that may also serve areas in between over time. The General Plan of
the county is in support of these service agreements for effluent disposal.

Electrical Power:

The majority of the unincorporated area of the county is served by the Rocky Mountain Power
Company. Some areas of the county are served by the Dixie Escalante Rural Electric Company.
Many of the incorporated cities have power companies owned by the city or town, and most of
the companies are associated with the Utah Associated Municipal Power Service which is
essentially a wholesale provider of electricity in many parts of the state.

The General Plan of the county has attempted to identify all current and future utility corridors in
the county. The power companies and the wholesale providers work well together to provide for
current and future electrical needs in the county. Washington County does not provide electrical
services to individual developments even though power is required by the county subdivision
ordinance. The county does take responsibility to see that corridors are provided across the
public lands to make sure that current and future needs will be provided for in the county. The
county does show utility routes on the transportation plan of the county and reflects new routes
that the county was aware of when that plan was prepared and adopted.



                                                 56
The Kolob area is the one area of the county where electrical service has not been provided up to
this time. The General Plan would support any electrical company that would make an effort to
bring power to this area.

Rocky Mountain Power has recently expanded the capacity of the sub-station in the Central area
of the county and is in the process of bringing an addition main line to this sub-station from the
facility in Sigurd, Utah. The completion of this transmission line should be adequate to provide
for the power needs in the county for many years to come.

The Washington County Water Conservancy District expects to operate additional hydropower
plants in conjunction with the Lake Powell Pipeline Project.

Solid Waste:

Historically, each community in the county maintained a "garbage dump" near their community.
These "open dumps" were very unsanitary and the wind blew paper materials far and wide.

The county was able to obtain land from the Bureau of Land Management which is located
south-east of the City of Washington where a solid waste facility has been established to serve
the entire county. All of the local facilities have been closed, and all solid waste is transported to
the solid waste site. The county maintains a contract with a contractor to provide waste pickup
throughout the county.

The Solid Waste District is managed by a Board consisting of one member from each of the
incorporated cities and towns, and one member from the county commission. There are satellite
collection sites that have been established in parts of the county to save residents the need to
drive to the landfill for small loads of refuse. Each city and town does their own billing for
service, and the solid waste district bills for the unincorporated areas. Compared to the open
dump facilities from past years, and with the reduction in refuse being dumped throughout the
county in unauthorized locations, most of these sites have been cleaned up. One can only
conclude that the system is working very well. The county is much cleaner, residents appear to
be well educated as to how to use the system, and the management of the landfill is filling the
need for which it was created.

Roads:

The county has spent a significant amount of time preparing a transportation plan for the county.
This plan includes major arterial roads, collector roads, and special use roads. These plans do
not show all of the county roads. For example, the plan does not include all roads within
individual subdivisions, even though these roads have been dedicated to the county. Roads
inside of the subdivision are included in the plan of class "B" roads which are the roads for
which the county receives funding from state and federal sources for maintenance.

The roads in the county are discussed in more detail in the public lands sections of the General
Plan, particularly Section III dealing with the public lands under the public roads on BLM and
National Forest lands. The General Plan refers readers to this section for more information as to
                                                  57
how these roads are maintained and how the maintenance is funded through the gasoline tax.
The road system is very important to all county residents whether in the unincorporated or
incorporated parts of the county.

Most county roads, except for those in a recorded subdivision, are called county roads "by right
of use." They were not dedicated by formal recorded documents, but the use by the public
constitutes a public road dedication under state law. Many of these roads have been used for
generations of time. These roads on federal public land were provided to the county by
Congressional action in 1866. These roads are identified as R.S.2477 roads after the statute that
created them. In recent years, environmental groups have challenged the right of the county to
manage public access to these legally-dedicated roads. That right of use is supported by the
General Plan at a significant cost of time and resources by the county.

Police Protection:

Police protection in the county is provided by the Washington County Sheriff'  s Office. The
County Sheriff is the chief law enforcement officer in the county. In the past, some of the
incorporated cities have contracted with the county to provide law enforcement services inside
city limits. If a city or town does not have its own law enforcement agency, the county is
required under state law to provide law enforcement to that city or town.

In unincorporated areas, some of the developments, through their special service districts, or
other organizations, have contracted with the county for "enhanced" police services to their area.
Such contracts allow the county to bring additional law enforcement capability that otherwise
would not exist due to limited resources. The general Plan supports this proposal. The county
will continue to provide the services required by law.

Fire Protection:

Some years ago the county created fire districts to cover all parts of the unincorporated portion of
Washington County. Table II shows each of the fire districts serving the unincorporated areas of
the county, and the communities and areas that are covered by each district.


                                         Table II
        Fire Districts and communities and Areas Covered by each District
                     Fire District                Community / Area Covered
        Hurricane Valley Fire                Anderson Junction
                                             Cliff Dwellers/Sky Ranch/Hurricane
                                             Estates
                                             Harrisburg Junction
                                             Hurricane Valley
                                             Kolob area
                                             LaVerkin
                                             Toquerville

                                                58
                                                     Virgin
        Leeds                                        Leeds
                                                     Pintura
                                                     Silver Valley Estates
        New Harmony                                  Harmony Valley
                                                     New Harmony
        Northwestern                                 Brookside
                                                     Central/Dixie Deer
                                                     Gunlock
                                                     Mountain Meadows
                                                     Veyo
        North Central Fire                           Enterprise Valley
        Pine Valley                                  Pine Valley
        Southwestern                                 Diamond Valley
                                                     Winchester Hills
        Dammeron Valley                              Dammeron Valley
        Other Areas                                  Motoqua
                                                     Pinto



The system of fire districts has resulted in fire departments with suppression facilities being
located throughout the county. An association of fire chiefs from each area of the county,
including the incorporated cities and towns, meets monthly to discuss the needs of the county.
Cooperation between agencies is at a high level. When any jurisdiction needs additional
assistance with fire suppression, other departments are available to provide assistance through
mutual aid agreements between fire departments.

The county works with the cities along with state and federal agencies to provide fire
suppression on the public lands. Generally the interagency coordination has been very good.
However, as described elsewhere in the General Plan, the county does not support current federal
policy that promotes managed natural fires and prescribed burning when private lands and
properties are placed at risk, and where heavy smoke is created over long periods of time to the
detriment of air quality and public health and safety down slope and downwind of the fires.
Private Citizens and businesses have suffered because of federal actions in this area. The
General Plan recommends a more enlightened policy of fire management activities regarding
when, where, and for how long such fire management practices should be permitted. The
General Plan does support continued federal and state cooperation in implementing sound
strategies for reducing wild-land fire risk around rural communities and in helping communities
on the wildland-urban interface to understand and develop defensible space around valuable,
private and municipal property.

The county works with each of the districts in the wildland areas that have community fire
councils, consisting of residents from the community with fire department personnel as members
of the council. These councils have been working on specific fire plans for their respective fire
                                                59
district. Table III shows the Fire District, the fire rating, and the degree of completion of the
CWPP. There are other categories of completion which are CWPP’s that are 1) completed,
submitted to the State, and approved, 2) completed and not yet submitted to the State, and 3) still
being completed. A mixed fire rating is an indication of which areas have accessible fire
hydrants, (lowest rating) and with areas having no hydrants available (highest rating). Fire
ratings are provided by the Federal Government.

                                        Table III
                       Community Wildlife Protection Plans (CWPP’s)

         Completed and Approved                                            Fire Rating
            Central/Dixie Deer                                                 6/9
            New Harmony/Harmony Valley                                         6/9
            Veyo                                                                6
         Completed, not yet submitted to the State:
            Dammeron Valley                                                     4
            Gunlock                                                            10
            Leeds / I-15                                                       5/9
            Pine Valley                                                         5
            Pinto                                                              10
            Winchester Hills                                                    5
         Still Being Completed
            Diamond Valley                                                      9
            Enterprise/East Enterprise                                          6
            Kolob area                                                         10


Most of the Districts covered by the CWP Plans also include service to large areas lying outside
of their immediate area. For example, the Leeds community has fire hydrants, but the I-15
Corridor where Leeds is the primary provider, does not. Diamond Valley serves a large area
outside of the consolidated community. Gunlock is also responsible for the Gunlock Reservoir
area, and much undeveloped land surrounding Gunlock.
Fortunately for county residents, many fire units will respond to calls outside of their normal
area. Sometimes units from two or three areas will respond to a single fire.

Community Wildfire Protection Plans

Each of the areas listed above, except for Motoqua, have fire plans that have been approved by
the State, or they are working on completing such a plan. These plans are very comprehensive in
nature, and once completed, give the fire departments and fire personnel very detailed
information about the area that they serve. The General Plan does not include any specific plan
herein. Most of the plans follow a similar format, but the internal details are specific to the plan
in which they are found. Following is an outline of a typical CWPP, the details of which are
specific to the plan in the area that the plan serves.


                                                 60
                   Table IV
             Typical CWPP Outline

Table of Contents:
Fire Planning Checklist:
Introduction:
       Objectives of the community plan
       Statement of Liability
       Partners and Collaboration
       Acknowledgements
Part I Community Description:
       Declaration and Concurrence
       Planning Committee Member List/Contacts
       Community Legal Structure
       Population
       Estimated Values at Risk
       Natural Resources at Risk
       Commercial Entities
       Utilities
       Formal Associations
       Median Support
       Schools
       Transportation
       Private Emergency Services and Equipment
       Restrictive Covenants, Ordinances, Etc.
       Insurance Rating
       Physical Description
               Ownership
               Access
               Roads
               Driveways
               Structures
               Bridges, Culverts, and Gates
               Utilities
               Sewage Systems
Part II Community Description:
       Goals and Purpose of Plan
       Identification of Actions, responsible parties, resources
and priorities
Part III Resources:
       Information Material
       Community Planning/Contact Information
       Websites: General
       Websites: Agency
                         61
                             Websites: Fire Ecology, Education
                             Websites: Utah
                             Grants
                             Contracting Opportunities
                             Employment Opportunities
                             Emergency Services/Equipment Projects
                             Hazard Evaluation
                             Area Fire Safety
                             Subdivision Fire Safety
                             Property Structure Rating
                             Expected Fire Behavior
                             Completed Fuel Modification Projects
                             Community Prescription
                             Fuel Modification Project Recommendations
                             Infrastructure Improvement Project
                             Recommendations
                             Education Recommendations
                             Wildfire Response/Pre-Attach Plan
                             Monitoring and Evaluation
                             Evacuation Plan
                      Part V Appendix:

There has been an extreme amount of work that has gone into the preparation and maintenance
of each of these plans. The General Plan recommends that residents of any of these areas review
the plan for your specific area and you will gain an appreciation for the time and effort that has
gone into this project.

The General Plan would further recommend that these plans be kept up to date and used in the
training of fire personnel. The information that each of these plans contain is difficult to
describe because of the extensive detail that each one contains. These plans provide great value
to the residents of the county in terms of fire protection. Washington County is well served by
the fire protection systems that are established and are in effect in this county.

Telephone and Cell Phone Service:

The major provider of telephone service in Washington County is the Century Link telephone
system. Telephone service is available to most of the "occupied" area of Washington County. In
recent years cell phones have become popular and almost a necessity for most people. There are
cell phone towers in many of the cities and towns in the county as well as in the unincorporated
areas. While there are still some "dead" spots in the county where service is not available, most
of the areas where residents reside now have access to one kind of telephone service or another.
The General Plan supports continued improvements to the telephone communication system in
the county



                                                62
Internet Service:

Most residents of the county now use computer systems and other specialized forms of electronic
devices for a variety of purposes, and the need for good internet services continues to grow.
More recently, internet providers are working to provide what is referred to as "high speed"
internet. Technology continues to improve and services continue to get better and less
expensive. Service areas need to be expanded where possible. The residents of the county are
the beneficiaries of these improvements without the county itself having any need to be directly
involved in providing the service. The benefits in these areas that residents now enjoy are the
result of private enterprise at work and represent one more reason that the county has avoided
becoming an urban service provider.

Schools:

Washington County contains one of the largest school districts in the state. It is a county-wide
district. The school district is completely separate from county government. There are five
school board members elected from five geographical districts in the county. These district
boundaries are required to be adjusted every ten years based upon the "one man, one vote"
requirement. Generally speaking, four of the five board members represent the Ivins, Santa
Clara, St. George, and Washington areas because of this being the center of the population in the
county. One member essentially represents the balance of the county.

Historically, the school district has been able to obtain public lands, mostly BLM land, as
construction sites for new school buildings through the Recreation and Public Purposes act of the
Federal Government in which the land is granted to the district on a lease basis and then is
purchased by the district when the project is completed. Because there are much fewer scattered
BLM parcels available for selection by the district at this point in time, the school district will
find it necessary in the future to acquire sites from other sources.

Washington County collects property taxes for the school district as well as for all of the cities
and towns, special service districts, the Water District, and all other taxing districts in the county.
Those taxes are distributed to the various taxing entities by the county, but the county is not
responsible for the tax levies set by these taxing authorities. In fact, the General Fund property
tax of Washington County is the lowest of all of the twenty-nine counties in the State.

Parks and Recreation:

Because of the decision of the county not to get involved in providing urban services to
subdivision developments in the county, the county does not have a parks and recreation
department as do most of the cities and towns. The county has generally found that with all of
the unincorporated vacant land in the county, sufficient recreation benefits exist for the residents
without the county being involved in urban-type recreation programs.

Some years ago the county did acquire land in what is historically known as the "Purgatory"
area. The area was named because the land was so poor that the early settlers couldn'  t grow
anything on the land, nor did it provide sufficient feed for livestock. The county was able to
                                                  63
acquire buildings, stables, arenas, bleachers, race track fencing, and other recreational amenities
and located them on this site. The cost to the county was less than half of what new materials
would cost. The official name for the site is the Washington County Regional Park and
Equestrian Center. It supports many different uses and receives funding for its upkeep and
maintenance from the county restaurant tax. The county acquired the property from the BLM at
a very low rate, about $400.00 per acre, and recently acquired an additional 80 acres through the
Washington County Land Bill to be used for future expansion of the correctional facility.

Adjacent to the Regional Park is another parcel of property obtained from the BLM under an R&
PP lease as was the Regional Park and the Correctional Facility. It has been developed as a
regional sports shooting park for rifle, handgun, shotgun and bow and arrow. The management
and development of this facility is moving along well, and when it is completed, this site may
also be purchased by the county.

These two facilities represent the county's total involvement in recreation development. There
are no plans on the part of the county to expand into other areas or other types of recreation.

Flood Plains and River Bottoms:

Washington County has developed and adopted a flood control ordinance for the county. This
ordinance prohibits any urban development in identified flood channels or washes. Working
with the federal agency, the county has been able to update most of the flood control maps for
the county which identifies flood plains, floodways, and washes where floods may be a problem.
All development is weighed against the flood control ordinance prior to the approval of any new
development.

The Water District, along with other local agencies, has sponsored master plans for the Virgin
and Santa Clara rivers.

The General Plan recommends that flood prone areas be retained in an open space classification
to protect them from the effects of urbanization and to prevent needless flooding impacts on
developed property.

Air Travel:

There are several airports located in the county. Some are privately owned, and a few are
publicly owned facilities. St. George City completed the construction of a new municipal airport
in in the south-east part of the city. This facility has allowed the current airport, located in the
center part of town to be eliminated, and to allow compatible urban uses to take place over time
on the ground.

The new airport provides longer runways which allows for larger planes to land and take off.
The airport is expected to encourage more commercial, business or industrial development that
depends upon air travel and services. The General Plan supports the efforts of the City of St.
George to construct the airport and the supporting facilities surrounding it for the benefits it will
bring to the county, but even more important, for the additional safety that it will bring to those
                                                  64
coming to and from the area. Many dangers existed at the old airport that has been eliminated
with the new facility.

Agricultural Development:

Agriculture has long played an important role in the custom, culture, and economy of the county.
Its future maintenance and development is supported by the General Plan. Agricultural land is
identified as areas where land is being used for irrigated pasture land, and for the growing of
crops or orchards, either irrigated or dry. While equally important, this classification does not
specifically designate the large areas of the county where livestock grazing takes place. The
agricultural land in the county has been reduced over the years as urban development has
expanded into agricultural areas. One example of this is the Washington Field area. This area
was one of the most fertile agricultural areas in the state of Utah. Earlier plans called for
development in the Washington area to take place north of the I-15 freeway in the large basin in
that area. The adoption of the Habitat Conservation Plan for the protection of the Tortoise
changed that plan by eliminating development in the HCP area. This caused land in the field area
south of Washington to be annexed into the city for urban development. It can no longer be
considered or protected as an agricultural area. There are still some agricultural lands in the
Enterprise and New Harmony areas, and some dry agricultural land in the Smith Mesa area. The
General Plan would recommend maintenance of these areas as agricultural land as long as
possible. There are other small islands of agricultural land in the county, but there are no other
large areas of available land still available.

There is however, a significant amount of public, state, and private land along the originally
proposed Southern Corridor along the Arizona border between the Hurricane Cliffs and the
Town of Apple Valley that could support agricultural development.

Residential Development:

There are, in Washington County, at least thirteen identifiable unincorporated communities. The
policy of the county for many years has been to encourage, or require, development adjacent to
existing cities and towns to promote annexation into those already incorporated areas where
urban services are available. The purpose of a city or town is to provide services that cannot be
developed on an individual basis. The position of the county is to not compete with these cities
and towns.

Some of the thirteen unincorporated communities may well become incorporated at some point
of time in the future. The policy behind the county encouraging development to take place in the
incorporated communities is one that says that government closest to the people is the best form
of government. Many of these unincorporated communities are approaching the point where
services need to be provided that may best be provided through incorporation.

There are unincorporated communities in the county that have developed in places where water
has been developed. Some of these communities may simply be a single subdivision, while
others have land around them that would allow for further development.

                                                65
Historically, unincorporated land has developed on large single home lots. In the future this
development pattern could change in response to water and wastewater requirements.

One reason that the county entered into the Vision Dixie project was to establish conditions that
should be considered when new development is proposed at some place in the county. A
summary of these recommendations is found in the 2009 Resource Management Plan which is
included as a part of this General Plan. Each of the existing unincorporated community plans
has included a review of the Vision Dixie principles as a part of the General Plan for each
specific community. Many of these principles will be easier to implement in new development
rather than in development that was started many years ago.

Residential growth should be made in a natural pattern through extension of existing residential
areas so as to minimize the tax burden related to providing schools, libraries, parks, highways,
police and fire protection, sewage and garbage collection and other facilities and services
necessary for the enjoyment of a community Developments should be considered in terms of
economic feasibility to the county, not only as to marketability of land, but in the time needed for
development to take place, and whether this development will be an asset to the county or a
detriment to the county in terms of the cost of providing and maintaining the goods and services
needed by the residents of the county.

Growth is associated with responsibility, and bigness does not always mean goodness. Efforts
should be made toward encouraging quality development rather than quantity development. The
General Plan seeks for high quality development instead of "boom to bust" growth.

Affordable Housing:

Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended, requires each county of the State of Utah to adopt a
plan for moderate income housing. After adoption of the plan, the county legislative body with a
population of over 25,000 is required to prepare a biennial review and report of its findings.

Washington County has a history of growth. In fact, the growth of the County has nearly doubled
every ten years since 1960. The 1990 census showed a population in Washington County of
49,139 residents. The year 2000 census shows a County population of 90,354 residents, with the
2010 census showing 138,115 residents.

The majority of growth in the County takes place in the various incorporated Cities and Towns
of which there are thirteen incorporated places in Washington County. Washington County is not
an urban service County. That is, the County does not provide urban services to residents of the
unincorporated area. Whenever a development is proposed adjacent to, or nearby, any of the
Cities or Towns in the County, the County first requires that an effort be made to annex the
property to the respective City or Town.

While County population has increased rather dramatically in the past several decades, the
population of the unincorporated area does not reflect that same level of growth. This is
primarily because of the annexation of areas as they are proposed for development. Areas such
as Bloomington, Bloomington Hills, Green Valley, Dixie Downs, Entrada, Sunbrook, Middleton,
                                                66
Harrisburg, Hurricane Fields, West and South Hurricane, Washington Fields, Kayenta, Apple
Valley, etc., all had their beginning in the unincorporated area, and are now part of one City or
another except for Apple Valley which is a completely newly incorporated Town. The 2010
census shows a population in the unincorporated county area of about 7,606, which is a very
little change from 2000.

Moderate Income Housing Element and its implementation

The key policy of the county’s general plan is for all types of housing to be directed into the
incorporated municipalities that can provide adequate governmental infrastructure, public health,
emergency services and private community services. This policy is based on the premise that a
valid evaluation of housing quality if not solely a look at the structure itself, but also includes a
look at the adequacy of supportive services available to householders. This key policy is still in
effect.

Notwithstanding the above policy, the unincorporated area has its certain economic pursuits,
such as agriculture, transportation, industry, and mining; each requiring housing to serve those
involved. It continues to be a policy of the county to have a fair share of its housing to be
considered affordable housing.

Presently in the unincorporated area of Washington County there are 86 subdivisions that have
been developed and recorded. Included in these subdivisions are a total of 4615 building lots
and currently there are 2,701 homes existing in these subdivisions. There are 1,914 vacant lots
in those existing subdivisions.

Efforts made by Washington County to reduce, mitigate, or eliminate local regulatory
barriers to Moderate Income Housing

Toward Lower Cost Development. Washington County continues with the following programs
which tend to encourage the development of new moderate income housing units:

   1. Policy of having no impact fees. The only impact fee in Washington County is a fee of
      .002% that is charged against a building permit valuation to pay for the Habitat
      Conservation Plan, which allows development to continue in the County. On a $100,000
      home is amount would add $200.00 to the cost of a permit. For modular dwellings, this
      fee is approximately 50% of what it would be for a conventional type dwelling.

   2. Because the requirement of inspections is less for modular dwelling than for conventional
      dwellings, the permit fee for modular dwellings is also calculated at approximately 50%
      of the fee for conventional dwellings.

   3. The County intends to continue to allow modular units to be constructed in all residential
      zones in the County. The County makes no differentiation between modular housing and
      “stick built” housing. Modular units must be permanently installed just as conventional


                                                 67
       construction is required. From the County standpoint, all are residential housing units,
       and all are treated equal.

   4. A number of the residential zones allow for a second dwelling to be constructed on the
      same lot as the primary dwelling unit. The Open Space Zone, Agricultural Zone, and the
      Residential Agriculture 5 and 10 acre zones all allow a second dwelling for a member of
      the owner’s family, or an employee of the owner. Based upon the present zoning of
      current subdivisions, 2742 acres of land in subdivision development and 486 existing lots
      allow for a second dwelling. Also, farm labor housing is allowed within these same
      zones. The pre-eminence of agriculture as a land use in the unincorporated are of
      Washington County is acknowledged, it identifies a need for unincorporated county farm
      labor housing. This need is for both those farm laborers hired to work year round and
      those who are hired on a seasonal basis during periods of harvest. The Washington
      County Land Use Ordinance allows for such housing, requiring the farm owner to be the
      provider.

   5. Most of the zones now allow for the construction of a second kitchen in the home as long
      as it is part of the dwelling and not constructed strictly as an apartment. This allows for
      the typical “mother-in-law” unit that is becoming more and more necessary with an aging
      population.

   6. The County requires 10 days from the time a building permit is requested until it is
      processed. Most generally however, the turn around time is seventy-two hours or less
      unless there are specific problems with the site that need to be addressed.

   7. When building inspections are called for, we require twenty-four hours notice. Most
      usually, if the request is received prior to 5:00 p.m. on a given day, the inspection will be
      made the next morning or afternoon at the latest.

   8. The County will continue to look for ways and means to make housing affordable in
      unincorporated County areas.


Progress made within the County to provide Moderate Income Housing, as measured by
permits issued for new units of Moderate Income Housing


The need for moderate income housing in the unincorporated area of Washington County in the
initial Plan for Moderate income Housing (as adopted 1999) was calculated from the 1990
Census and the current information was calculated from the 2000 Census and the 2010 census,
The calculations are as follows:


                          Year                       Population
                           2000                         5,858

                                                68
                           2006                         9,426 estimate
                           2010                         7,604 actual
                           2020                         12,154
The unincorporated area of Washington County accounts for less than 6.5 % of the total County
population. Based upon the percent of County population living in the County unincorporated
area, there are already sufficient housing alternatives available to take care of the need for low
and moderate income families in the County. In reality, because of continued annexation of
areas as they develop, the percent of residents in the County living outside of a City or Town
boundary will likely decrease as a percentage of total County population. Much of the over
estimated population from 2006 can be accounted for in the incorporation of Apple Valley prior
2006.
The median area income for Washington County in 2005 was $45,900, according to Department
of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”). Moderate income households consist of those
households who earn 80% or less than the mean area income. This means that any household
earnings $38,700 or less in 2005 would classify in the moderate income category. In 2009, the
Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget shows the median household income as being
$58,820. The figures below show the number of permits that were issued for dwellings and the
number of dwellings that were below the moderate income level, including the price of the lot,
according to Washington County Department of Building Safety Development records.


         Year       Building Permits Issued                 Housing < $120,912
                    (Single Family & Manufactured)
         2005       174                                      7
         2006        96                                      5
         2007        74                                      5
         2008        42                                     10
         2009        23                                      2
         2010        25                                      6
         2011        20                                      1


Unincorporated Washington County has maintained a high percentage of moderate income
housing for new single-family structures, due mainly to the zoning that allows manufactured
homes as an alternative to site-built structures in any location where zoning compliance for a
single family dwelling can be approved.
Washington County is interested in providing affordable housing for its residents. Wages and
salaries in Washington County are below the average for the State of Utah and for the nation as
a whole. They have been this way for generations. Part of the reason for this is because of a
service oriented economy in the County. Another viable reason is because of the higher than
average number of retired persons living in the County who generally have sold a home
                                                69
somewhere else, paid for a home in Washington County and live comfortable on a smaller,
fixed income.

Actions taken by Washington County to encourage the preservation of existing Moderate
Income Housing and the development of new Moderate Income Housing.

Preservation. Typical housing economies are such that those with higher incomes are the ones
who construct new homes; those with modest incomes “move up” to the units vacated by those
who have built the new homes; and those with still lower incomes move up to the homes vacated
by the second-tier income individuals. However, new units are seldom available to lower-
income households without the availability of government subsidies.

The County is trying to encourage development of high density housing or clustering, and in
2008 agreements have been entered into with the Ash Creek Special Service District to be
responsible to monitor and provide liquid water oversight to development in the eastern part of
the county essentially lying east of Interstate 15 freeway and in the New Harmony valley west of
the freeway. The balance of the county will be monitored by the Washington Conservancy
District along with the Kolob area east of the freeway. This agreement opens the door for other
systems to be used in addition to septic tanks as development continues in the unincorporated
areas. The General Plan of the county is in support of these service agreements for effluent
disposal. There are a number of other techniques that can be used by the county to continue to
provide housing or low and moderate income families.
The County presently offers a number of incentives to providing low and moderate income
housing that might not be found in all Cities and Towns. Particularly in the area of impact fees,
the County is far less than its incorporated neighbors. Except for a mandated fee for the Habitat
Conservation Plan, there are no other impact fees in the County. The County will continue to
explore ways and means to allow low and moderate income housing to take place in the County.
In addition to many of the things mentioned in this report is an ongoing effort to allow sewer
systems to be extended into unincorporated areas, thereby making provision for multiple family
or higher density single family residential development to take place.
The Five County Association of Governments (“FCAOG”) and the new regional Metropolitan
Planning Organization (“MPO”) provide access to valuable Federal and regional housing
assistance programs, block grants, residential rehabilitation loans, and down-payment/closing
cost assistance programs, among other programs and assistance. Washington County should
encourage the use of services provided by these organizations in furthering housing needs and
goals to serve the public.

Annexation:

The county policy on annexation is found previously in this plan. The county does not oppose
annexation to existing cities and towns. When communities are located away from existing
cities and towns and it is not convenient to annex, consideration should seriously be given to
incorporation rather than to continue expansion of unincorporated areas.


                                                70
New Development Areas Identified:

There are a number of areas in the county that have been identified for development from time to
time. Since there has been a downturn in the economy, areas that were being considered for
development just a few years ago, are now lying dormant. Assuming that the economy improves
in coming years, some of these areas may again be proposed for development. Among the areas
where development has been proposed include land on Smith Mesa, the Dalton Wash area, the
Harmony Valley, significant future development in the Dammeron Valley area, and more
development in the Enterprise area of the county.

In addition to these areas where development has been proposed, the Land Bill identified several
tracts of land equaling some 4,000 acres of BLM land that are expected to be sold for private
development. These parcels were identified in the BLM Resource management Plan.

 One large area of some 1,300 acres is proposed for sale in the city of Santa Clara, south of the
Santa Clara River, and identified as the '  South Hills" area. Some of that land contains threatened
and endangered plants which would reduce the available land. Another area of significant size is
in the area lying between Dammeron Valley and Gunlock which could be released for sale in the
future. The Land Bill did not designate any time frame for the disposal of the BLM property, so
it is unlikely that any of it will be sold while the general economy is moving a much slower rate
than it was a few years ago.

Housing:

Presently in the unincorporated area of Washington County there are many subdivisions that
have been developed and recorded. Included in these subdivisions are a total of 4615 building
lots available for residential construction. Currently there are 2701 homes existing in these
subdivisions. There are still some 1914 vacant lots in the unincorporated part of the county that
could be built on. 41 percent of the lots in the unincorporated county are still vacant and
available for construction. These figures are approximate and do not include scattered parcels
around the county.


                                           Table V
                                Housing in Washington County
                             Number of developments          13
                             studied
                             Number of building lots      4615
                             Number of existing dwellings 2701
                             Number of vacant lots        1914

Because the historic method of liquid waste disposal has been through the use of septic tanks, the
size of lots in the county has been upwards of 1 acre in size. Because of the value of land, it
becomes difficult to construct low and moderate income housing on these large lots, with the
exception of modular units. Therefore, modular units account for most of the current low and
                                                 71
moderate income housing in Washington County. Two things could change that situation.
Through the Water District, water may become available in parts of the county where it has
previously been unavailable. In addition, it is now possible to construct an on-site treatment
plant for sewage disposal which would then allow for a variety of housing types similar to those
currently available in the various cities in the county. The on-site plants are too expensive for a
single dwelling unit, but in a larger planned development containing a variety of housing types,
they become much more affordable.

Commercial Development:

The General Plan considers the commercial needs of the various parts of the county.
Basically, commercial development is divided into two categories, the shopping center and the
highway service center. Shopping centers may be further reduced to provide basic convenience
goods to smaller areas. Highway service centers are for the purpose of serving the traveling
public.

Shopping centers should be planned, designed and located as a part of existing community
development. Many of the communities do not have any commercial development or else there
is very limited commercial activity. This lack of existing services provides the opportunity to
develop quality shopping facilities, determine where they should be located and where types of
commercial development can locate in proximity to other businesses. Even in many of the
existing communities, commercial sites could be identified using Vision Dixie principles which
would, in the future, provide commercial services to the residents of the area.

The delivery of commercial business is largely dependent upon economics in deciding whether
or not to locate in a particular area. However, in community planning, provision should be made
for logical commercial space to be incorporated into the community. Time will take care of
actual development. When it does come, it will be an integral part of the community where
residents can walk to shopping facilities without the use of an automobile. This is the pattern
that the General Plan recommends to be followed in new communities, and where possible to be
identified in existing communities during the planning process.

The General Plan recommends against the development of communities with a "strip" of
commercial land running the length of the community. This type of development will encourage
marginal commercial development and speculative commercial activities, most of which will
usually be unsuccessful. This type of commercial development is not generally useful to small
rural comities and is better left to larger city development.

The General Plan does not attempt to limit commercial competition, but rather to direct it to
areas where it can develop harmoniously into the plan for the total community. The General
Plan proposes relationships where growth, progress, and service can be achieved without
adversely affecting other segments of community life.




                                                 72
Industrial Development:

Industrial development continues to increase in Washington County. Some areas of the county
seek industrial development, others do not. Very little industrial development exists in the
unincorporated areas outside of some limited mineral development, particularly sand and gravel
operations.

Industrial development normally requires a close proximity to areas where public facilities are
available. Many such developments are dependent upon access to the I-15
Freeway and should not be located in areas where freeway access is not readily available.

Washington County has never sought the establishment of pollutant type industries.
Strict controls and regulations should be imposed on any industry located anywhere in the county
to guarantee against pollution of air, land, or water supplies.

Community Plans:

This section of the General Plan contains the community plans for most of the unincorporated
communities in the county. Previous planning has been done in some of these communities;
some have never had a community plan prepared. Plans may be developed in areas not currently
listed.

Those areas that have been developed and are found in this section of the General Plan include
the unincorporated areas of Brookside/Pine Valley Mt. Farms, Central/Dixie
Deer Estates, Cliff Dwellers/Sky Ranch/Hurricane Cliff Estates, Dammeron Valley,
Diamond Valley, East Enterprise, Gunlock, the Kolob area, Harmony Valley, Pine Valley,
Pintura/I-15 Corridor, Veyo, and Winchester Hills.

Plans for each of these areas have been developed individually community by community, and
have been added to this section of the General Plan of the county as
follows:




                                                73
        THE BROOKSIDE / PINE MOUNTAIN VALLEY FARMS COMMUNITY
                              GENERAL PLAN
                                2010 - 2011

Introduction:

The Brookside/Pine Valley Mountain Farms community is a part of the unincorporated part of
Washington County. It is one of about twelve unincorporated communities in the county.
Residents of this community, and others, should take time to review Section I of the County
General Plan which discusses planning in general, the basis for planning, and the purpose of
planning. Many of the things mentioned in the beginning of Section VII are also relevant to the
residents of this part of the county. The General Plan provides guidelines for the future of this
particular part of the county in addition to those things that are applied county-wide in the other
sections of the General Plan.

The Brookside / Pine Valley Mountain Farms community is interesting inasmuch as the original
development in Brookside took place prior to the county having any type of planning ordinances
such as subdivision or detailed zoning regulations. On the other hand, the Pine Valley Mountain
Farms subdivision development is among the more recent subdivisions in the unincorporated
area of the county. Access to the Brookside area is through the Pine Valley Mountain Farms
subdivision. Roads are paved in Pine Valley Mountain Farms and are dedicated county roads,
while the roads in Brookside are unimproved and undedicated. While these areas are technically
two separate developments, they are generally referred to as the Brookside development.

The first plat in Brookside was recorded on June 16, 1965, with two or three phases being added
later. The Pine Valley Mountain Farms subdivision plat was recorded on April 19, 1976, with a
smaller phase added at a later date. All of the Brookside subdivision plats contain a total of 108
recorded lots, and the Pine Valley Mountain Farms plats contain 43 lot. There is some land
north of the Farms subdivision containing a farm house and one other home along with land
acreage which combines with the subdivision areas to make up the community.

Geography and Topography:

Pine Valley Mountain Farms was developed alongside State Highway 18 between St. George
and Enterprise in Washington County. The subdivision was located just a few miles north of the
community of Veyo which is also unincorporated. The Brookside development originated at a
lower elevation than its companion subdivision, and was platted in lots on both sides of the Santa
Clara River. Because many of these lots back up to the river, the subsequent home development,
in most cases, took place at the back of the lots with the homes being constructed immediately
adjacent to the river.

The location of these homes are in a beautiful location and have especially been desirable to part
time home owners who have developed their property as seasonal homes for seasonal use as
opposed to the year-around residents who live there. County records would indicate that about 45

                                                 74
- 50 lots in the Brookside area are second dwellings mostly for owners who spend a portion of
the year in Brookside, but whose primary residence is outside of Washington County.

To the east of the Brookside development the topography rises quite quickly toward the Pine
Valley Mountains. Not all of the Brookside lots are immediately adjacent to the river. Later
development was still below the hill, and developed with private roads, but was removed from
the river by some distance with some lots being located against the hillside.

The open land north of the Pine Valley Mountain Farms area also is adjacent to State Highway
18, and was the land originally settled in the area. At one time, the access to the Brookside
development was through this land, along a road known as the Lucky 7 Ranch Road, which ran
not far from the original farm home. The Brookside access was changed following the
development of the Pine Valley Mountain Farms subdivision.

All of this community is located north of the community of Veyo, and is surrounded on three
sides by public land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, and further to the east, the
Dixie National Forest. There is private land on the south side of the community leading to the
community of Veyo, which land is mostly undeveloped and primarily in an open space category.

                                       Table I
               Land Ownership in Brookside / Pine Valley Mountain Farms
      Bureau of Land Management       660.99 acres            1.03 sq. miles
      Private Land                    861.13 acres            1.35 sq. miles

                                            1,522.12 acres*           2.38 sq. miles*
      Total:

* These totals reflect the area identified as a part of the community for General Plan purposes
and does not reflect the total amount of BLM land surrounding the community for a significant
distance on three sides of the community.

Land Use:

                                         Table II
                                   EXISTING LAND USE
      Residential Development                  257.25 acres              0.24 sq. miles
      Agricultural Development
      Commercial Development
      Industrial Development                         15.82 acres         0.02 sq. miles
      Vacant, undeveloped, grazing                  494.72 acres         0.77 sq. miles

                                   Total:           762.79 acres         1.03 sq. miles




                                               75
The above figures are does not survey accurate, but they do paint a relative picture as to the
relationship between the various types of land use.

Open Space:

There is a significant amount of open space in the area surrounding the Brookside/Pine Valley
Mountain Farms development. It is managed by the BLM, and the present open space use of
land is not likely to change in the foreseeable future. The only current use is the small area used
as a cinder pit lying to the west of the community. The part of the pit currently being used could
be expanded, but the overall size of the cinder pit is what it is. It is not likely to get any larger.

There is a large parcel of private land lying toward the northern end of the community that is also
mostly open space and land used for livestock grazing. There are currently two dwellings in this
area. Agricultural use is not likely to expand beyond small areas currently being used.
However, if services, particularly water, were available in large quantity, the area could be
developed residentially similar to the other developments in the community.

Agricultural Land:

Other than individual home gardens, there is virtually no agricultural development in this
community. The actual amount would be too small to calculate as a percentage of the total land
area. There is not a lot of land area where agricultural pursuits could be pursued.

Residential Development:

The only type of residential development in the community is single family dwellings. This is
the type of development that has been planned and carried out since the area was started. The soil
condition in Pine Valley Mountain Farms does not lend itself to farming with a rather shallow
layer of soil to absorb septic tank effluent.

In the case of the Brookside development, the dwellings are generally located close to the Santa
Clara River which may cause septic tank problems by the proximity of the dwellings to the water
course.

In order to support other types of residential development, i.e. townhomes, condominiums,
apartments, etc., it would require an on-site treatment plant of some kind to take over the liquid
waste requirements. This is not likely to happen any time soon. The General Plan discusses this
situation further in the service section of this Plan.

There are a total of 43 lots in the Pine Valley Mountain Farms subdivision. There are still
approximately 10 vacant lots in this development. The Pine Valley Mountain Farms
development has essentially reached "build out." In the Brookside Development there are some
108 platted lots along with some lots sold by metes and bounds and not platted. In the Brookside
section of the community there are approximately 50 lots that are vacant and available for
building.
                                                  76
With about 60 vacant lots in the entire community, the entire area is not far from "build -out."
The actual number of building permits issued for dwelling units over the past ten years is shown
Table III as follows:

                                      Table III
                        Residential Permits Issued 2001 - 2010
                Year                PVM Farms              Brookside
                2001                    0                      1
                2002                    0                      3
                2003                    0                      1
                2004                    0                      0
                2005                    1                      2
                2006                    0                      1
                2007                    2                      2
                2008                    1                      0
                2009                    1                      0
                2010                    0                      2

                   Totals:                 5               12 combined = 17


Over the past ten years there has been an average of almost 2 permits issued each year.
With some 150 lots in the community and about 60 of them being vacant, and an average of 2
building permits being issued each year, the community could support further development of
permits per year for another 30 years before reaching complete build-out.
This projection does not anticipate a great amount of future growth to take place.

Current Population and Population Density:

As a part of the unincorporated area of the county, specific population figures for each of the
individual unincorporated communities are not available. The total population for Washington
County unincorporated, based upon the recent census information, was 7,606 residents, or a
community about the size of the City of Ivins.

The average family size in the county is in the range of 2.8 to 3.2 residents per dwelling unit.
This is a little less than the average family size found in the statistical information gathered for
this community. However, using an average of the county figures and estimating about 3.0
residents per family, it can be estimated that the General Plan would project the current
community population to be in the range of 270 residents. This would constitute a community
between the size of the Town of Rockville, and the Town of Springdale. .




                                                  77
Future Growth and Development:

Projecting population over the next ten years is best done by using the average number of
permits for the past ten years combined with possible future growth. Building permits could be
expected to increase incrementally over a period of time. The desire for single family homes will
likely continue even though the Vision Dixie Plan calls for a mixed use type of development
with higher density interspersed with single family and commercial development. How quickly
the economy rebounds will determine how quickly additional homes will be built in the
community.

Using a projected annual growth similar to the average number of building permits of the 2001 to
2010 period, the General Plan would project an increase of 60 residents over the next ten years.
This would make for a population growth in 10 years of about 300 more residents.

The General Plan also calls to the attention of the residents of the area; Brookside is home to a
number, about 50, homes as second dwellings. This could reduce the permanent population over
the next ten years to even less than 300 permanent residents.

Vision Dixie Principle Summary:

Along with recommendations for residential growth and future development in the valley, along
with other types of development such as commercial growth, the Vision Dixie Project, which
was sponsored by Washington County a few years ago, and which was adopted by the county
upon completion, makes recommendations for many other phases of community development.
A summary of the Vision Dixie Principles and their relationship to this area is shown as follows:

1.     Plan regionally; implement locally - The General Plan for this community is a local plan
       for the residents of this area. It is also intended to be adopted as a part of the Washington
       County General Plan.

2.     Maintain air and water quality, and conserve water - Air and water quality is very
       important to the residents of this combined community. Most of the people, who live in
       communities such as this area, are there because of the clean air that exists. Conservation
       is also evident because of the limited outdoor watering on individual lots and the amount
       of natural landscaping that exists. There are trees in the area to provide summer shade,
       but much landscaping is of a natural variety that does not require additional water.

3.     Guard our signature landscapes - See the section of the plan dealing with open space
       development. Most of the land surrounding the community is under the direction of the
       BLM, with the mountains to the east controlled by the Forest Service. There are no plans
       for development on any of this land. The areas surrounding this community should
       protect the view shed of this area with the possible exception of views to the south which
       contain a considerable amount of private land which could generate development.

4.     Provide connected natural recreation areas and open spaces - There is no shortage of
       natural open space recreation areas surrounding Pine Valley Mountain Farms/Brookside.
                                                78
     This area is available for open space recreation activities. There is no significant desire
     on the part of residents to develop additional recreation facilities within the community,
     but there are natural and developed recreation areas within a close distance to this area
     already existing.

5.   Build a balanced transportation system - The county has developed a county-wide
     transportation plan. See Section III of the General Plan for further information the
     county transportation plan. As far as such things as a commuter bus system connecting
     St. George City and Enterprise, that service is still many years in the future, but could
     become a reality at some future time with stops along the way in the various communities
     between the two cities.

6.   Get centered by focusing on growth in walkable mixed use centers - In a community such
     as this one, that was developed prior to the Vision Dixie Plan being developed, it is
     difficult to retrofit the community into a mixed use center now that it has been almost
     fully completed. The community is compact enough that it could be considered to be
     generally walkable as it is currently developed. Residents responding to the county
     questionnaire were not in favor of developing any system of walking or bicycle trails, as
     such. But those things are available in the community as it is currently developed without
     any special consideration to those services.

     It is not a mixed use community in the true sense of mixed use, although the two aspects
     of the community do provide a variety of living experiences, either on the bench adjacent
     to Highway 18, or in the Santa Clara River valley below the rim. It would be difficult at
     this time to identify areas for a true mixed use of residences to be developed. Unless a
     sewage system was installed for the entire community, it would be difficult to develop
     lots of a mixed use nature using septic tanks as the means of waste disposal even if there
     was still an undeveloped part of the community where it could be done. To develop
     mixed use in the open space area north of Pine Valley Mountain Farms would require a
     system of waste disposal as well as a source of culinary water. It could happen, but is not
     likely in the near future.

     The future of commercial development as a part of a mixed use center is discussed in a
     future section concerned with commercial development.

7.   Direct Growth Inward - The area has developed with relative compact growth. This
     community, as well as all other unincorporated communities, has not been able to support
     a higher mixed use density using septic tanks. On-site treatment systems have not been
     available for use in Utah until recent years. There are currently no such facilities in use in
     the county except for a large common septic tank system in the Pinion Hills area of
     Dammeron Valley.

8.   Provide a broad range of housing types - This element has been discussed previously.
     As far as the unincorporated communities of the county are concerned, the variety of
     housing types is definitely limited. As far as housing types are concerned, the county
     approves conventionally built homes and modular homes. There are probably more
                                               79
       modular homes in the county than in any of the cities and towns. However, all of these
       types of dwellings are of a single family residential nature. The limitations to mixed use
       housing are discussed above.

9.     Reserve areas for industry - The residents of this area have strongly indicated that they
       are not in favor of industrial development. One industrial development does exist to the
       west of the community in the form of a cinder pit leased by the Bureau of Land
       Management as a community pit with a portion leased for commercial use to a business
       in the St. George area. Such things as a cinder pit or gravel pit are located where they
       are, but to locate various types of industrial business in this area is not feasible because of
       the distance to freeway travel and to the markets that are associated with long distance
       transportation. Any additional industrial use of land in this community is not proposed
       by the General Plan and is not likely to happen.

10.    Public land conversion - No conversion of public land is needed for the build-out or
       additional growth of this community. The only potential for future development in the
       valley which would include more land being added to the existing development lies to the
       north and south of the current development, all of which are already on private land.
       While the acquisition of some public land for future use might be possible, it does not
       appear to be a feasible, or needed, alternative in the case of Brookside or Pine Valley
       Mountain Farms. .

Commercial Development:

Commercial development is mostly non-existent in this community. Those responding to the
county questionnaire were nearly unanimous is their recommendation against any significant
commercial business in the area. In terms of the Vision Dixie Project, the recommendation
relative to commercial development was to identify an area in the community center within 3/4
mile of all of the residential development and to combine commercial development with a
mixture of residential development.

The General Plan, in identifying an area where a commercial center could exist, would be on the
land north of Pine Valley Mountain Farms. However, a true mixed use of residential and
commercial use would not be possible without the construction of an on-site waste disposal
system.

The General Plan suggests that to locate business along the State Highway in an effort to attract
travelers to stop along the Highway would not be successful. Economics determines the decision
to create a commercial center. That demand would not appear to exist at this time in this area.

Residents suggested that commercial development be left to the desire of residents as whether or
not to develop commercially. The General Plan would generally support this policy. If
commercial development did take place, the General Plan recommends that it be done to serve
the residents and not to cater to the traveling public, therefore a Highway location would not be
necessary or useful. Many of the residents suggested that the convenience commercial facilities
currently located close by in Veyo, were sufficient to fill the needs of residents of this area.
                                                 80
A very small commercial business was started years ago and was zoned commercially at that
time. It involved a commercial fishing operation which was not successful. A small gift shop
exists along the highway today, also in a commercial zone. By themselves, without being part of
a larger commercial center, neither of these commercial businesses could be projected to
generate a lot of commercial activity.

There are many home occupations in Washington County. There are most likely home
occupations existing in this community. More of the home occupation types of business can be
expected to continue and are regularly licensed by the county.

Public Services:

A section of the General Plan relative to public services in the county is contained at the
beginning of Section VII of the county General Plan. Many comments are re-stated here as they
specifically apply to this part of the county.

Electricity:

Electric service is provided by the Rocky Mountain Power Company. Some years ago, a major
sub-station was constructed near the Dixie Deer Subdivision. At the present time, the power
company is planning another major expansion of the sub-station with another transmission line
being brought from the facility in Sigurd, Utah, to the facility near Dixie Deer Estates. When
this facility is completed in about 3 to 4 years, the west side communities of Washington County
should be provided with good electrical service for many years into the future.

Natural Gas:

A number of years ago the Questar Gas Company installed a natural gas line from a point near
the town of Central, running parallel to State Highway 18 southward toward the City of St.
George. The installation of this line made natural gas service available to communities along the
way. This line connects with the other major supply line serving the St. George Valley from the
east, giving service to most of the county from either direction. This supply of natural gas
should e sufficient to serve all of the communities connected to the system for both current
demand and for future growth.

Water:

The water in this community is provided from two separate sources. In the Brookside
subdivision portion of the community, water is provided by the Veyo Water Company. This
supply is sufficient for all of the currently subdivided property. It is not sufficient for any
significant growth and expansion anywhere in the water company area of service.
In the case of the Pine Valley Mountain Farms subdivision, water was provided from a mutual
water company created to serve this particular subdivision. Again, the supply of water is
sufficient for the needs of the subdivision area, but would not provide for significant expansion
into currently undeveloped areas.
                                                81
Both of these water companies appear to be well managed and have a good record in providing
service to each of the areas that they serve. The citizens comments submitted to the county
indicate good satisfaction on the part of the residents for the service presently being provided.
The General Plan expects that this level of service will continue to both of these areas as they
currently exist.

There is the potential in future years for water to be obtained from the Washington County Water
Conservancy District as is being made available to other incorporated and unincorporated
communities in the county. The Water Company is continually extending their service line
further north along Highway 18, and could well be available to this area in the future so that
supplementary water could be obtained by either water company should it become feasible and
desirable to do so.

Sewage Disposal:

Presently, liquid waste is disposed of through the use of individual septic tanks. This system
seems to have served the valley well up to this point. There are some concerns about long-term
use of septic tanks in the community because of shallow soil levels in the Pine Valley Mountain
Farms area, and proximity to the Santa Clara River in the Brookside part of the community.

The General Plan recommends that consideration be given in the future to developing a system
in the community in which property owners could pay a fee similar to fees charged in areas
where sewage systems exist, and to use these funds for regular inspection of septic tanks and to
provide for pumping, or making repairs to any system in the community that was in need of
repair or maintenance at no additional cost to the homeowner. By using such a system, the
Department of Environmental Quality would feel that septic tanks can continue to be used in this
area safely for many years.

It is much easier to eliminate the possible effects from septic tank failure by taking a pro-active
position rather than waiting until problems surface, and then trying to find a good solution.

Roads:

Road maintenance for the roads in Washington County is done by the Washington County road
department. These roads are classified as "Class B" roads by the State of Utah. Depending upon
the degree of improvement, the county receives funds from the State for maintenance purposes.
This amount is subject to change from year to year with the funds coming from the gasoline tax
applied to all gasoline purchased throughout the country.

Dirt roads receive the least amount; paved roads receive the most money. In Washington County
roads have historically been maintained with the money received from the State gasoline tax.
Property tax money has not been used for road maintenance in this county.

It has long been the county policy to maintain roads in essentially the condition in which they
were created. If property owners want to have their roads improved too a higher standard, the
                                                 82
position of the county has been that when the owners of an area bring their roads up to that
higher level, the county will then maintain them at the new standard. This is sometimes done
through an improvement district that spreads the cost of improvement over a period of time,
usually not more than ten years, instead of a one-time payment up front from the property
owners.

In the case of the Brookside area, the property owners appear to be strongly opposed to
dedication of their roads if it means bring them up to the current county standard. However it
would appear that many of these same residents would favor having the county do some routine
maintenance of their roads.

Many of these roads have no established right-of-way, although the most recent addition to the
Brookside does have an identified right-of-way even though the roads are still private.

The General Plan makes a recommendation that representatives from Brookside meet with
county officials to explore the possibilities of dedicating the Brookside roads in their current
condition, and that they will be maintained in their current condition without any effort to
improve or upgrade them.

Citizens of Brookside living on the far side of the Santa Clara River have expressed a desire to
have a second way out of this area in time of flood or disaster. The General Plan points out that
the north-south road east of the river was the original road from the Pine Valley area to the St.
George valley. This road was used until such time as State Highway18 was constructed.
Therefore, it is likely a county road by right of use based upon its historical use in the county.
The General Plan recommends that the county should explore what it would involve to open the
road from Brookside to Veyo, Dammeron Valley, or to Baker Dam for emergency use. This
road could be maintained in a dirt condition unless upgraded at a future time by the residents of
Brookside. The most feasible route would appear to be a distance of about six miles via the
Bonnie Springs Road to Dammeron Valley.

Another issue raised by residents is the desire for a larger bridge crossing over the Santa Clara
River in the Brookside area. The General Plan could support such a request, but does raise the
concern that if such a bridge was constructed and it was clogged during a flood period by a large
tree, or other debris, the resulting flood in the valley would be much greater than it is with the
current crossing. Again, the county could not consider a new bridge unless the roads were public
roads. In the short term, it may be a wiser decision to improve a secondary access out of the area
than to get into a discussion of how best to improve the river crossing. Such a discussion cannot
begin until such time as the roads have been dedicated to the public.

Fire Protection:

Fire protection in the community is provided by the volunteer fire department in the community
which is a part of the Northwest Fire District in Washington County. A fire station was
constructed several years ago on a parcel of BLM land in the Pine Valley Mountain Farms area.
The fire department members receive training within the Northwest Fire District and from
county-wide training that is available. The fire district participates with the fire chiefs
                                                 83
association on a county-wide basis. It would currently appear to be adequate for the needs of the
community as it can continue from this time to enlarge and get even better over the years.

Public Safety:

Police protection is provided by the Washington County Sheriffs'Office. This service will
continue as long as the valley continues as an unincorporated part of Washington County. This
method of police protection would continue even if the valley was incorporated until such time
as the incorporated town created their own law enforcement department. Some communities
have contracted with the county for an increased visibility of officers in their community through
a contract with the county calling for more visibility of sheriff'
                                                                 s officers through a specific
contract, and with the additional funds being raised by the community.

Solid Waste:

A Solid Waste Board made up of one representative from each city or town in the county, along
with one member of the county, oversee the collection of solid waste in the county. This board
contracts with a private collection company to provide the collection of waste throughout the
county. There is a central land fill location which is owned by the county, and is managed by the
solid waste company. That site is expected to be sufficient for many years to come. This system
of management and oversight is also expected to continue, and appears to be adequate to serve
the community.

Some residents have requested door to door pickup which would obviously cost the residents an
increased fee from the current charge. Most citizens appeared to be quite satisfied with the
satellite facility that is located close by for the use of residents.

Building Inspection:

Inspection of new construction is provided by the county Building Department. With the low
number of permits being issued, the General Plan would recommend that this method of
inspection continue. The cost of county building permits is significantly less than comparable
costs in most of the incorporated cities and towns.

Communication:

Most of the county is served by the CenturyLink communication company. In addition to
CenturyLink services there are a number of private cellular companies providing service within
the county. Except for the possibility of adding additional cellular towers over time, most
residents expressed a generally favorable opinion with the current level of telephone service.
This level of service will likely continue with improvements from time to time by private cellular
companies.




                                                84
Flood Control:

Flood control has not been a major problem in the Pine Valley Mountain area of the community.
Flooding does take place from time to time in the Brookside subdivision area. Many of the
original lots and homes built in Brookside are shown to be in the flood plain area as shown on
the Federal flood maps. This area was subdivided, or sold by metes and bounds, prior to the
county developing its first subdivision ordinance and flood control ordinance. However, those
living along the river enjoy the beauty and tranquility that exists in that area most of the time.
Flooding does take place along the river from time to time. This issue was discussed previously
in the section dealing with roads in the community. There is probably not a good answer to this
problem with the lots and homes being where they are, and with the river being subject to
flooding from time to time.

Annexation / Incorporation:

As far as this community annexing to another city or town, there is no incorporated city or town
to which this area could annex. Incorporation of an unincorporated area into a town is always a
possibility. The position of the county has been that government that is closest to the people is
usually the best form of government. There are towns in the county, notably Rockville and
Springdale that have a population that is less than the population of this development. On the
other hand, with the size of this community in the county, and the projected slow level of growth
that is likely to take place in the future, there would appear to be no good reason for the General
Plan to recommend that the community seriously consider incorporation at this time. Whether or
not to incorporate is a local decision. The county will continue to support each area of the
county as an unincorporated part of the county, and does not attempt to influence any area of the
county as to whether or not to incorporate.



            WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY STATISTICAL SURVEY
                                 FOR
        THE COMMUNITY OF BROOKSIDE/ PINE VALLEY MOUNNTAIN FARMS
                               2010-2011

1.       Residency Status

         a.      How long have you lived in this location?      9.5 years average
         b.      Number in family:    3.6 persons, average
         c.      Homeowners           92.9 %
         d.      Land owner only       7.1 %

2.       Characteristics that you value or that help you choose to live or own property in   this
area:

         a.      Born or raised in the area                    7.1 %
         b.      Close to family, friends, or neighbors        4.3 %
                                                  85
     c.     Close to mountains, etc.                      78.6 %
     d.     Like open space                               71.4 %
     e.     Opportunity to keep horses, animals, etc.     64.3 %
     f.     Quiet community                               78.6 %
     g.     Recreational opportunities                    50.0 %
     h.     Safe environment                              85.7 %
     i.     Small town atmosphere                         85.7 %
     j.     Other reasons: dirt roads, dark night sky - stars, slower pace of life,
     a garbage collection station nearby, away from the city, good neighbors,
     no curb & gutter, no concrete, county feel, beauty, peace, and tranquility

3.   Should the rural atmosphere be preserved?

     a.    Yes 100 %               No
     b.    How should it be done?          Keep farm animals, don' t tax so high that
     owners have to sell, keep things as they are no major land use changes

     c.      Should existing farm land be preserved?        Yes 85.7% No 14.3 %
             How should it be done?          Better planning, Vision Dixie Principles
     buy it or lease it, let farmers keep farming, preserve it only if the farmer
     wants to, let the owners do what they decide to do

5.   Would you favor developing a system of walking/bicycle trails throughout the
     community? Yes 23.1 %                 No 76.1 %
           Dirt trails only, locate along roads

6.   Mark on a scale of 1 to 5, your concerns on each of the following: Traffic safety, street
     and road conditions, unsafe ORV use, and street dedication. Most concerned = 5, least
     concerned =1, no problem = 0

     a.     Off-highways vehicles on streets - 0 = 64.3 %, 2 = 14.3 %, 5 = 14.3 %
     b.     Speed/traffic control - 0 = 28.6 %, 2 = 21.4 %, 3 = 42.9 %
     c.     Road conditions - 0 = 42.9 %, 2 = 35.7 %, 3 = 7.1 %, 5 = 7.1 %
     d.     Unsafe ORV use - 0 = 42.8 %, 2 = 21.4 %, 3 = 7.1 %, 5 = 7.1 %
     e.     Road dedication - 0 = 71.4 %, 1 - 7.1 %, 5 = 7.1 %
     f.     Other - don't pave roads, develop a second exit from Brookside, for fire
     and safety purposes, use Mt. View Lane to Veyo

7.   Desired commercial or industrial business - None, whatever people want to do, small
     growth, no big industry, small business only, home occupations only, we like it how it is

8.   Where should commercial or industrial uses be located - along main roads, below
     Winchester, downtown Saint George, wherever people want it if neighbors are okay

9.   Rate your experience with local services as they relate to your area - Excellent = 5, Poor
     = 1, No experience = 0
                                              86
       a.     Ambulance - 0 = 43.8 %, 5 = 35.7 %, 4 = 7.1 %, 3 = 7.1 %, 1 = 7.1 %
       b.     Drinking water service and quality - 0 = 14.3 %, 5 = 28.6 %,
              4 = 21.4 %, 3 = 7.1 %, 1 = 7.1 %
       c.     Electrical Power - 0 = 7.1 %, 5 = 14.3 %, 4 = 28.6 %, 3 = 42.9 %
       d.     Fire protection - 5 = 35.7 %, 4 = 21.4 %, 3 = 14.3 %, 2 = 7.1 %
       e.     Garbage collection - 0 = 35.7 %, 5 = 7.1 % %, 4 = 14.3%, 3 = 14.3 %, 1 =
              7.1 %
       f.     Law enforcement - 0 = 7.1 %, 5 = 28.6 %, 3 = 35.7 %, 1 = 7.1 %
       g.     Postal Service - 5 = 64.3 %, 4 = 28.5 %,
       h.     School Transportation - 0 = 21.4%. 5 = 50.0 %, 4 = 21.4 %
       i.     Telephone service - 5 = 85.7 %. 3 = 14.3 %
       j.     Cell phone service - 5 = 42.9 %, 4 = 28.5 %, 3 = 28.5 %
       k.     Other services desired - DSL service, more internet access, garbage pickup
              at homes,

10.   Should the community consider providing recreation services - yes - 7.1 %
      No - 71.4 %    Maybe - 7.1 %

11.    List facilities that could be provided - None, Pine Valley, Baker Reservoir, Veyo Park,
       Water at Baker campground, baseball fields



12. How can you best be informed about meetings, etc?

       a.     Word of mouth          71.4 %
       b.     Fire Station           28.5 %
       c.     Store if constructed   50.0 %
       d.     Mail boxes             100 %
       e.     County web site        21.4 %
       f.     E - mail               14.3 %
       g.     Mail

13.    Did you Participate in the Vision Dixie planning program Yes 0      No. 14

14.    None

15.    Any final comments - No curb and gutter or street lights, have the county maintain the
       dirt roads, put a bridge over the river crossing, limit growth because of limited water,
       pave the main roads only.




                                               87
           WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY SURVEY ANSLYSIS
                               FOR
      THE COMMUNITY OF BROOKSIDE / PINE VALLEY MOUNTAIN FARMS
                             2010-2011

        On August 12, 2010, members of the Washington County Planning Department met with
the residents of the community of Brookside/Pine Valley Mountain Farms at the Pine Valley
Mountain Farms Fire Station. The group was not large. However, in reviewing the
questionnaires returned, it can be assumed that the number of questionnaires filled out would
represent a valid cross-section of residents of the entire community. The feelings of one part of
the community are not that far distant from the feelings of residents of the entire area.

Following is a summary of the questions asked, and the comments that were responded to by
those present at the community meeting along with other copies of the questionnaire submitted
directly to the planning office via the internet, or otherwise.

Residency Status:

The average time of residency by those responding to the questionnaire was 9.5 years. This
figure indicates a stable population base in the community, many of whom have lived there for
upwards of 15 years. The average family size of those responding was 3.6 which is slightly
larger the average family size in the county. Most residents live on platted subdivision lots with
2 or 3 indicating that they have acreage up to almost twenty acres in a couple of cases. Most of
the land, in the larger parcels, is used for livestock grazing with very little actually used for
farming. All except for one respondent indicated that they were a home owner as opposed to a
land owner only.

2.     Characteristics that cause you to live or own property this community.

Many characteristics were listed as being reasons for people wanting to live in this area. The
most identified being close to the mountains and parks, the opportunity to keep livestock
animals, desire to have open space, a safe living environment, and a small town atmosphere. All
of these are factors are indications of a desire for maintenance of a rural community atmosphere
away from many of the characteristics of city living.

3.     Should the rural atmosphere be preserved?

The answer is one hundred percent yes by those responding. A few ways to maintain the rural
atmosphere were given and include the following: Keep farm animals, don'      t tax so high that
property owners have to sell their land to pay taxes, keep things as they are with no major
changes.

4.     Should farm land be preserved?


                                                88
Again there was a strong feeling to preserve farmland, even though realistically, farming in the
community is not very great. Those who responded with a "NO" answer were really saying,
whether to farm or not to farm is up to the land owner. They should be allowed to farm as long
as the desired to do so, but only if that is what they want to do.

5.     The question related to developing walking or bicycle trails in the community.

A few favored such development along existing roads. In the Brookside area, such trails should
remain a "dirt" condition without any paving. Most residents however, were not in favor of
creating a system of trails or bike trails in the community. Obviously, walking along existing
roads, or bicycling along existing roads as they are, can be done without making any special
effort to identify a specific or separate trail or bicycle system.

6.     Mark concerns about each of the following conditions:

Off highway vehicle use received mostly comments of no concern. Speed and traffic control did
not receive a significantly higher concern with only a few respondents indicating even a slight
concern. The same mild concern was relative to unsafe use of such vehicles. Most residents
indicated no concern relative to dedicating roads. The roads in Pine Valley Mountain Farms
were dedicated when the subdivision plat was recorded. The roads in Brookside are private
roads. The responses may indicate that there is no desire to have the county take over the
maintenance of these roads if improvement of them was a condition of dedication. Dedication
would have to be done before any county maintenance would have to precede any county
involvement.

7.     Commercial and Industrial development.

The responses would indicate that there is no desire to have commercial or industrial
development take place in the community. Some said to leave it up to the land owner whether or
not to develop commercial or industrial development. Most felt that St. George was near enough
for this type of development to take place.

8.     A similar response to the question asked above.

9.     Rate local services as they relate to your area.

Most citizens either had no experience with ambulance service, or felt that the service was
excellent. Water service was generally rated as adequate. Electrical power was rated about the
same as for water service. Generally okay, but not great. Most felt that garbage collection was
excellent because of the disposal site near the community. A few would prefer door to door
pickup, but were not totally opposed to the disposal site nearby. Law enforcement was rated as
adequate, if not excellent. The post office delivery was given high ratings as was telephone
service. The quality of cell phone service appeared to depend upon the type of cellular service
being used.

10.    Should recreation services be provided?
                                                 89
The answer to this question was strongly NO. Very few felt that some recreation would be good,
and at least one said maybe. Facilities suggested included baseball fields. Others suggested
using existing facilities in other areas such as Pine Valley or Baker Dam.

11.    This question is covered in the previous response.

12.    How can you best be informed about meetings?

Word of mouth and the use of the mail boxes were the highest methods suggested. Many said to
put notices at a store, if it existed, but at this time, no such facility is proposed. A few were in
favor of using the county web site, which is already being used, and a few would prefer having
notices mailed, which, because of cost, is probably the least likely method to happen.

13.    Did you participate in the Vision Dixie Program?

The 100 % answer was No, even though there were some comments about the county not buying
into the program, even though the county adopted the results.

14.    No comments relative to the Vision Dixie plan in the community were made.

15.    Some final comments were made and can be found at the end of the statistical
       summary.




                                                 90
                          THE CENTRAL / DIXIE DEER ESTATES
                                  GENERAL PLAN
                                     2010 - 2011

Introduction:

The Central / Dixie Deer Estates area is an unincorporated part of Washington County.
Residents and others should take time to review Section I of the Washington County General
Plan which discusses planning in general, the basis for planning, and the purpose of planning.
Many of the things mentioned in the beginning of Section VII are also relevant to residents of
this part of the county. The General Plan of the Central / Dixie Deer community provides
guidelines for the future in addition to those things that are applied county wide in the other
sections of the General Plan.

The first efforts to develop the Central area took place in the late nineteenth century. Nothing
came from this effort until Henry Holt discovered the efforts to develop water and pursued that
effort with some of the residents of Pine Valley. He was successful to bring water from the
Santa Clara River to the Central flat.

Peter E. Beckstrom, William A. Bracken, Henry L. Holt, James Chadburn, and M. E. Bracken
filed entry for the first five homesteads. By February 1909, these first settlers moved into their
homes. The name of Central was chosen as the name of the community because of its being
centrally located between Enterprise, Gunlock, Veyo, and Pine Valley.

In the fall of 1909 H.D. Holt, P. E. Bracken, and M. E. Bracken, were chosen to represent the
new town as a Board of Trustees. School was started in a large tent with forty children from first
to eighth grades attending.

In 1934-35 a culinary water system was installed that brought pure water from the near-by
Mountains to the community. With income from the cattle and dairy industries, in addition to
their farm crops, the community residents were rewarded for their efforts in establishing the
community.

The official town site plat for Central was recorded on April 20, 1920 with M. E. Bracken and
William Bracken as signers on the plat. On August 20, 1935 a resolution was passed by the
Washington County Commission approving the incorporation of the town of Central as an
incorporated town. At the time of incorporation Royal S. Hunt was appointed as President of the
Town Board. George H. Lytle was Vice-President, and Daniel Leavitt, Vivian Bracken, and
Novel Bracken were appointed Directors.

Central continued as an incorporated town until December 12, 1969 when the town was un-
incorporated. At the time of its un-incorporation, all of the improvements, a water system was
turned over to Washington County. The National Forest granted a right of way to the county for
access to the water system, and a road to service the water system on the National Forest.


                                                 91
The Dixie Deer development began in 1962 when Phase I was recorded. At that time, the county
did not have a subdivision ordinance, and an almost non-existent zoning ordinance which might
have required road widths, setback requirements, etc. The land was sold prior to Phase II being
recorded, along with all subsequent Phases. Phase II was recorded 9-21-70, Phase III & IV on 8-
22-73, with Phase V being recorded on 12-17-74.

Some of the hillside land west of the State Highway was proposed for development, but for
whatever reason was never recorded. Some of the grades on the streets exceeded the
requirement of the zoning ordinance, among other things. The developer also proposed the
construction of a private airport at one time, located south of the phases on the west side of the
highway. It was never constructed. There is still vacant land owned by the developers of the
Dixie Deer development which could yet be completed at some time in the future.

Geography and Topography:

The community of Central /Dixie Deer lies in the north-west traffic and residential corridor of
Washington County. It is about 25 miles north of the City center of St. George, and 18 miles
south of the City of Enterprise. There are no other communities between Central / Dixie Deer
and Enterprise. The Community of Veyo lies about 6 miles to the south, and Pine Valley is
located about 7 miles to the east.

Agriculture was the predominant use of the land in the Central valley. Much of the land is still
maintained in agricultural use. The valley is surrounded by National Forrest land on three sides,
west, north, and east. The land to the south is under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land
Management. The valley itself is primarily made up of private land.

Table I identifies the land ownership in the valley and the approximate amount of land under the
jurisdiction of each owner.

                                   Table I
                     Land Ownership in Central / Dixie Deer
        National Forest         566.64 acres            0.89 sq. miles
        Private land           1,978.00 acres           1.83 sq. miles

                 Total:              2,544.64 acres


Table I identifies the fact that there are only two land managers in the community. Those are the
National Forest, and the private land owners. There is BLM land to the south of the Central
valley that is not included in Table I.

Land Use:

Table II shows a breakdown of the private land in the community.


                                                 92
                                       Table II.
                                  Existing Land Use
          Quasi Public                                     2.37 acres
          Residential                                    284.19 acres
          Agricultural - farming/crops                   250.00 acres
          Vacant, undeveloped, grazing                 1,441.44 acres
          Industrial                                        .99 acres

                        Total:                        1,978.00 acres


The above figures may not be totally survey accurate, but they do paint a picture of the various
types of land use. There is still much land available for some type of development.

Residential development in Central / Dixie Deer occupies about 30.2 % of the private land in the
valley. Vacant, undeveloped, farming and grazing occupy about 69.5 percent of the total private
land, and industrial land occupies less than 1% of the private land total.

Agricultural Development:

Because of lack of space for growth, many of the second generation of the original settlers began
moving to other areas and eventually there were few original settlers left in Central. Outsiders
began buying up the land and water rights. Notably in this regard was Pat Clark from Las Vegas,
who purchased much of the land and about half of the water rights.

At this time there are about 250 acres of irrigated land in the valley with the addition of a number
of acres of dry land farming. There is not a significant amount of additional farmable land, or
enough water to irrigate the land in the valley. The land that is farmed should be under the green
belt provision of the law, and could also be included in an agricultural protection area for as long
as farming continues.

Residential Development and population considerations:

The Dixie Deer subdivision development was created in 5 Phases. These phases contain a total
of 493 platted and recorded lots. There are 5 platted subdivision lots in the Central area of the
community. Central was created from a town site development which divided much of the
community into blocks and lots. Some of the original lots in the town site plat have been broken
up into smaller lots. In Central and Dixie Deer combined, there are approximately 498 existing
residential lots.

Population, existing and projected:

In 1930, Central had a population of 92 residents, 20 of whom were children. In 1938 the
population had increased to 125 residents. Accurate population figures for Central are a little
                                                93
hard to substantiate. A figure from 1940 showed 70 residents and another figure from 1970
showed a total of 15 residents. After the Dixie Deer subdivision began to be developed, the
population has increased for every year since that project began. There have been 73 new
building permits issued over the past ten years.

There are 498 total lots in the community area. Of that total, 349 lots contain dwelling units.
Using the population figures from those responding to the questionnaire, the community has an
average of two persons per dwelling unit. This would create a population of about 700 persons.
Using the average family size county wide, the average number per dwelling would be three
persons per dwelling unit, or a total existing population of 1,100 persons.

There are additionally 149 vacant lots in the Dixie Deer subdivisions, which includes about 11
vacant lots platted in Central. Using the same population figures this would add between 300 to
450 residents to the community for a total build out population of between 1,000 and 1,600
residents as a build-out population.

There is still undeveloped land in the Dixie Deer area, more undeveloped land in the Central part
of the community. This land, if developed, could add significantly more residents to the area and
increase the population accordingly.

A lack of culinary water could be the greatest restriction to growth in both of these community
areas, without which, the population projections would show growth up to the extent that
culinary connections are available.

Vision Dixie Summary:

According to the response from the questionnaire circulated in the community, none of the
respondents from this community participated in the Vision Dixie study that was undertaken by
the county a few years ago. The outgrowth of the study and recommendations by the committee
charged with reviewing the material collected was a series of guidelines and policies aimed at
guiding future growth in the county. The summary of the Vision Dixie study, adopted by the
county and most of the incorporated cities and towns in the county is summarized for the
residents of Central/Dixie Deer estates as follows:

1.     Plan regionally, implement locally - The General Plan for Central/Dixie Deer is a locally
       prepared plan for this area of the county only, and is a part of the overall county General
       Plan. It deals with aspects of the future of the Central/Dixie Deer valley and may be
       amended from time to time as necessary, dealing with the concerns of this community,
       and not related to the county at large.

2.     Maintain air and water quality, and conserve water - This community has a high standard
       of air quality. The low population density of this community, and the separation of this
       area from other more urban areas of the county help to maintain good air quality. Water
       conservation is necessary because of the limited amount of water that is available here.


                                               94
3.   Guard our signature landscapes - The surrounding hillsides of this community are
     maintained in an open space category on public land. With the Vision Dixie principles in
     place, it can be expected that the surrounding view sheds on the public land will be
     protected.

4.   Provide connected natural recreation areas and open spaces - Most of the surrounding
     public land areas provide considerable natural recreation areas. The Pine Valley
     recreation area is very close to this community as is the Pine Valley wilderness area. In
     addition, there are numerous roads and trails that are available to residents of this
     community for natural outdoor recreation. There are probably more natural outdoor
     recreation areas available to residents living here than anywhere else in the county.

5.   Build an balanced transportation system - There is no public transportation system
     available to residents of Central / Dixie Deer. If a public transportation system was ever
     developed between St. George City and the City of Enterprise, This community would
     benefit from being located along the State Highway between these two cities. Until that
     time, there will be no public system between the Central valley and the City of St.
     George.

6.   Get centered by focusing on growth in walk-able mixed use centers - The community of
     Central is generally walk-able as is much of the Dixie Deer subdivision. The Vision
     Dixie study recommended that dwellings should be located within three-quarters of a
     mile from a commercial center. There are no commercial facilities located in the
     community, but if such a center was developed on the north side of the Pine Valley road
     near the intersection with Highway 18, many of the residents could walk to that location
     and be within the distance recommended by the Vision Dixie plan.

7.   Direct growth inward - All of the growth in the Dixie Deer subdivision has been
     contained within the platted and recorded plats. Virtually all of the development in the
     Central area has also been in the area that was platted for residential development in the
     town site plat. The community has done very well in complying with the policy of the
     Vision Dixie Plan in directing growth inward.

8.   Provide a wide range of housing types - This policy works well in the urbanized county
     locations where sewer service is available. It does not work in the unincorporated areas
     of the county where sewer service is not available. The soil conditions in the county
     make it very difficult to provide mixed development, or high density residential
     development using septic tanks.

9.   Reserve areas for Industry - There is one parcel of property in the community that can be
     identified as an industrial site. It is more of an equipment storage yard than an actual
     industrial site.

     The community of Central / Dixie Deer does not lend itself to industrial development
     because of the distance of the community from a major transportation site. If there were
     industrial products being produced in the community, then it would be a question of
                                              95
       moving them to the market. In this case, there are no locally produced products.
       Therefore, it would be necessary to bring the materials to the site before creating the
       product and then moving it to the market place. The community is not an area where
       industrial development is likely to take place.

10.    Public land conversion - The community of Central / Dixie Deer is surrounded by public
       land, particularly the National Forest. None of this land is identified as being necessary
       for future development of the community other than a small parcel of Forest land that is
       needed to connect Phase I and Phase II of the Dixie Deer development together.

Commercial Development:

One goal of the Vision Dixie Plan is to try to make communities as sustainable as possible. This
means that residents should be able to find work where they live, and that circulation through the
community might be better with walking and bike trails as opposed to automobiles.

Relative to commercial development in the community, the questionnaires returned by the
residents attending the planning meeting held here last summer indicated that there was no desire
to have commercial development here. Suggestions for commercial development included
Enterprise, St. George, and Veyo.

Veyo has been identified by all of the other "west side" developments as a suitable for
commercial development. It does fit the definition as a satellite commercial site according to the
Vision Dixie Plan.

Many years ago, as a part of the development, Phase I of the Dixie Deer development included
the development of a restaurant and motel facility. This facility continued to be used for a
number of years, but eventually closed and has not been used for many years. In fact, it has been
recommended that this commercial building be torn down and removed from the community as
being a danger in its current condition. The General Plan would recommend that the building be
inspected to determine whether or not the county could require its tearing down and elimination.
If it is a community hazard, the county could facilitate its removal. If not, it would be a private
issue with the owner of the property.

The General Plan does not recommend commercial development in this community. However,
should economic conditions dictate that commercial development was desirable, the location
near the intersection of the Pine Valley road and State Highway 18, would be one location where
commercial development could take place. It is a spot where residential development is not
likely to take place and would be within the distance recommended by the Vision Dixie Plan
where commercial development would be within an acceptable distance from existing
development.

While the General Plan would identify the above site as having commercial potential in keeping
with the Vision Dixie Plan, it should be indicated that the General Plan is not suggesting that this
location be developed in an effort to attract commercial business from either the Pine Valley

                                                 96
road or the State Highway. It should only be developed to serve local needs which would require
that there be an economic basis for commercial development to take place in the community.

There is one facility that was recently approved in the community that does have commercial
characteristics related to it. This is the motocross facility that was approved by conditional use
permit by the County Planning Commission about one year ago located near the eastern edge of
the community.

After being approved for one year, the facility has recently been approved for permanent status
by the planning commission. There were evidently no complaints received by the county over
the past year that would indicate any local concerns with the facility.

Industrial Development:

Industrial development was discussed briefly during the section summarizing the vision Dixie
Plan dealing with industry. There is no industrial development in the Central/ Dixie Deer area.
There is one facility that is classified as a contractor storage yard located along State Highway
18. This facility has been there for a number of years. The owners have made efforts from time
to time to beautify the area and to screen it from adjacent uses. There are no residential uses
located adjacent to the site.

Public Services:

A section of the General Plan dealing with public services county-wide is located in Section VII
of the General Plan. This section of the Plan will be adopted in connection with the adoption of
the various community plans and is not currently a part of the General Plan. Some comments
specific to the Central / Dixie Deer plan are re-stated here as they relate specifically to this
community.

Electricity:

Electric service to Central / Dixie Deer is provided by the Rocky Mountain power company.
This company has recently upgraded their distribution lines from the Red Butte distribution
center. The main distribution line from Sigurd to the Red Butte station is also being upgraded.
With these upgrades, the power company feels that they should be able to provide electrical
service to the west side of the county for a long time to come.

The citizens generally gave their electrical service good marks in terns of reliable service to the
community. The ability to provide good service to the residents should be able to continue for a
long period of time.

Natural Gas:

There is a major natural gas distribution line that currently parallels State Highway 18 and runs
between the Red Butte sub-station, and joins a comparable line coming into the county from the

                                                 97
east side of the county to St. George City. These lines provide a stable source of natural gas to
the county and to most of the communities therein.

Water:

Water in the community is provided from two separate sources. The Central area is served by
the Central SSD culinary water system, and the Dixie Deer area is served by the Dixie Deer
culinary water system. When the Dixie Deer development took place, Central town, as it was at
that time, did not have sufficient water to serve the Dixie Deer development. The Dixie Deer
developers provided their own system which later formed the DDSSD, and the two systems have
remained as separate companies.

Neither system has sufficient resources to allow any significant expansion. If the Dixie Deer
system can provide for all of the currently undeveloped lots in the subdivision, it cannot provide
water for any significant expansion. The Central water system is in about the same situation.
Additional water for culinary use in the community is the major restriction to future growth and
expansion.

There is also a limited amount of irrigation water available in the Central area. The current
supply is completely subscribed to by those owning the water shares for irrigation. There is land
that could be irrigated if additional water was available.

Sewage Disposal:

Central / Dixie Deer Estates is served by septic tanks. Because of poor soil conditions in a few
areas of Dixie Deer Estates, two of the lots there are served by what amounts to individual
sewage treatment systems. This type of system has been approved by the Department of
Environmental Quality for large scale use in areas where normal septic tank development is not
feasible. It is not recommended as an alternative to septic tanks.
There is still room for additional development in the valley that could probably be served with
septic tanks, assuming that sufficient culinary water was available to support additional
development.

Roads:

All of the roadways in the Central town site plat, along with the recorded phases of the Dixie
Deer development, are county roads. The policy of the county is to maintain the county roads in
the same condition that they were developed by the developer. For this reason, all of the roads in
the valley are not maintained at the same standard. The county will assist property owners to
improve the roads in their particular area by assisting in the creation of improvement districts to
allow the roads to be brought to a higher standard and paid for over a period of time, usually a
ten year period.

In Phase II of the Dixie Deer development, there was no access provided from Phase I into Phase
II. There is a roadway that ends with a temporary cul-de-sac against the National Forest
boundary with the intent that it be extended inside the forest boundary to an existing road in
                                                98
Phase I, thereby linking those two phases together. The General Plan recommends that the
county make contact with the forest service officials to identify the feasibility of opening a
roadway along the forest boundary to link these two phases of the Dixie Deer development
together. It needs to be done.

Little by little the Department of Transportation (UDOT) has been widening the State Highway
north from St. George. This improvement of the State Highway should continue over time, until
a four lane highway is developed from St. George to the Pine Valley Road in the community of
Central / Dixie Deer. From here is should continue to be improved to the City of Enterprise.
This is the same method that was used to improve Highway 9 from the Interstate Freeway to the
downtown area of the City of Hurricane. It can be done a little at a time over a period of several
years to achieve significant improvement to the State Highway system in the county.

Fire Protection:

The Central / Dixie Deer community maintains a volunteer fire department. It is a part of the
North West Fire District. The department participates with the Washington County Fire Chiefs
association. The volunteer members of the department also participate in training programs with
the North West fire District.

The department is on call to assist with fires outside of the community area as may be needed to
assist fire departments elsewhere in the county. The department needs to continue making
improvements to meet the needs of the community.

Public Safety:

Police protection in the valley is provided by the Washington County Sheriff'   s Office. This
service will continue as long as they are continue to be an unincorporated part of Washington
County. Some communities in the county who desire greater protection have contracted with the
county for increased visibility of the sheriff'
                                              s deputies in exchange for additional funds being
raised by the community.

Solid Waste:

The County Solid Waste Board is made up of one representative from each city or town along
with one member from the county. This committee oversees the collection of solid waste in the
county. There is a central landfill location which is owned by Washington County and managed
by the solid waste company. This site is expected to be sufficient for many years to come. The
system of management and oversight is also expected to continue. Overall, the solid waste
program in the county is recommended by the General Plan and currently works very well. In
addition to the land fill location, there are several satellite collection sites in the county where
waste and used materials can be disposed of. One such facility is located in this community
along the State Highway. The General Plan recommends that this facility continue to be
maintained for the residents in this part of the county.


                                                 99
Building Inspection:

Building inspection for dwelling units and other types of building construction are provided by
the County Building Department. The cost of building permits is established to defray the cost
of inspection during the period of construction. Building permit fees in the unincorporated
communities are significantly less than found in most of the incorporated cities and towns in the
county.

Communication:

Most of Washington County is served by the CenturyLink communication company. In addition
to CenturyLink services, there are a number of private cellular companies providing service
within the county. None of these communication services were given high ratings by the
residents of the area. However, both CenturyLink and cellular services were judged to generally
be adequate. Improvements to communication services in the community should continually be
improved and upgraded when possible to do so.

Flood Control:

Flood control is not identified by residents as a major problem in the Central / Dixie Deer
community. The Santa Clara River runs through the easterly end of the community, and except
for some problems with the river crossing at times of high water, no other problems have been
identified in the General Plan.

Incorporation:

One final issue related to public services is the question of incorporation. Under Utah State Law,
a petition for incorporation must originate from the community that desires to pursue this
alternative. The General Plan suggests that incorporation is not a serious question for this
community. Further, there are no incorporated cities of towns near enough that annexation
would be a possibility.

The county feels that the government that is closest to the people is the best form of government.
The minimum number of residents required to request incorporation is 100 persons. The county
does not oppose incorporation of a community. The county is not promoting the incorporation of
the unincorporated communities in the county, but would lend support to whatever decision the
community might make.




                                               100
            WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY STATISTICAL SURVEY
                                 FOR
                 THE COMMUNITY OF CENTRAL / DIXIE DEER
                               2010-1011

On August 10, 2010 a community meeting was held at the Central Fire Station regarding the
development of a General Plan study for this community. Attendees were asked to fill out a
questionnaire relating to current conditions in the community. Additional copies of the
questionnaire could be submitted to the county planning department either in hard copy or by the
internet. Following is a summary of the statistics received by the county.

1.     Residency status:

       a.   How long have you lived in this area?       11.2 years average                   b.
       Number in family:                          1.8 members’ average
       c.   Homeowners:                                100.0 %
       d.   Land owners only:                            0.0 %

2.     Reasons for living in the Central/Dixie Deer Area:

       a.     Born or raised in the area                   12.5 %
       b.     Close to family, friends, or neighbors       29.1 %
       c.     Close to mountains, etc.                     75.0 %
       d.     Like open space                              87.5 %
       e.     Opportunity to keep animals                  20.8 %
       f.     Quiet community                              95.8 %
       g.     Recreation opportunities                     58.3 %
       h.     Safe community                               70.8 %
       i.     Small town atmosphere                        87.5 %
       j.     Other:         cool in summers, retirement, see stars, no lights

3.     Should the rural atmosphere be preserved?            Yes:     100 %           No: 0

       How should it be done?       Stop building, we don' t require what cities require,
       approve no housing development on vacant or agricultural land, preserve the area
       and wildlife, don'
                        t change anything, don't overbuild the market, limit development
       or zone changes, don't overbuild the market

4.     Should farmland be preserved?                        95.8 %           4.1 %

       How should it be preserved?        Make no changes, limit county control, give farmers
       no impositions, have no new development, stop building, limit development or zone
       changes


                                              101
5.    Would you favor developing a system of walking/bicycle trails throughout the
      community?             Yes - 12.5 %         No - 70.8 %
6.    Mark on a scale of 1 to 5 your concerns on each of the following: traffic, safety, street
      and road conditions, unsafe OHV use, and street dedication. 5 = most concerned, 1 =
      least concerned, 0 = no perceived problem

      a.     Off-highway vehicles on streets - 0 = 25.0 %, 5 = 33.3%, 4 = 16.6 %, 3 =
             12.5 %, 2 = 2.6 %
      b.     Speed/traffic control - 0 = 12.5 %, 5 = 76.4 %, 4 = 8.3 %, 3 = 12.5 %,
             1 = 12.5 %
      c.     Road conditions - 0 = 16.6 %, 5 = 41.6 %, 4 = 8.3 %, 3 = 16.6 %,
             2 = 20.8 %, 1 = 4.1 %
      d.     Unsafe OHV use - 0 = 16.6 %, 5 = 20.8 %, 4 = 16.6 %, 3 = 16.6 %,
      e.     Road dedication - 0 = 12.5 %, 5 = 16.6 %, 3 = 12.5 %, 1 = 12.5 %
      f.     Other:         Access Road between Dixie Deer #1 and #2, snow plowing
             has improved, the lodge needs to be torn down, and it is unsafe

7.    Desired Commercial or industrial business:

      None (50 %),

8.    Where should commercial or industrial development be located?

      Veyo, Enterprise, St. George, not in Central

9.    Relate your experience with local services as they relate to your area:

      a.     Ambulance - 0 = 29.1 %, 5 = 33.3 %, 4 = 12.5 %, 3 = 12.5 %, 2 = 4.1 %
      b.     Drinking water service and quality - 5 = 58.3 %, 4 = 16.6 %, 3 = 8.3 %,
             2 = 8.3 %
      c.     Electrical power - 5 = 41.6 %, 4 = 41.6 %, 3 = 12.5 %,
      d.     Fire protection - 0 = 8.3 %, 5 = 45.8 %, 4 = 20.0 %, 3 = 8.3 %, 1 = 4.1 %
      e.     Garbage collection - 5 = 45.8 %, 4 = 12.0 %, 3 = 12.5 %
      f.     Law enforcement - 0 = 16.6 %, 5 = 33.3 %, 4 = 16.6 %, 3 = 20.8 %,
             1 = 8.3 %
      g.     Postal service - 0 = 16.6 %, 5 = 29.1 %, 4 = 16.6 %, 2 = 4.1 %
      h.     School transportation - 0 = 41.6 %, 5 = 29.1 %, 4 = 16.6 %, 3 = 12.5 %,
             2 = 4.1 %
      i      Telephone service - 0 = 12.5 %, 5 = 50.0 %, 4 = 25.0 %, 3 = 8.3 %
      j.     Cellular service - 5 = 54.1 %, 4 = 20.8 %, 3 = 8.3 %1 = 4.1 %
      k.     Other services -        P. O. Boxes too close to road, maintain road
             conditions

10.   Should the community consider providing recreation facilities?       Yes - 12.5 %
      No - 70.8 %

                                              102
11.   List services that could be provided:     Post Office, clubhouse, community
      building, park
12.   How can you be best informed about meetings?

      a.     Word of mouth                        54.1%
      b.     Posting at the fire station          50.0 %
      c.     Posting at a store                     4.1 %
      d.     At the mail boxes                    79.1 %
      e.     County web site                      33.3 %
      f.      Other:         E-mail, Mail to Ronnie & Kathy Vause, Mailing to
             residents

13.   Did you participate in the Vision Dixie planning program?             Yes - 8.3 %   No -
      91.6 %

14.   If you participated, - your comments:

      The width and directions scattered from participants.

15.   Final Comments:

      Grade roads more often, pave roads, tear down the old lodge, don'     t change
      anything, keep the residential area; it is good as it is, open a road between
      Phase I and Phase II.




                                               103
             WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY SURVEY ANALYSIS
                                 FOR
               THE COMMUNITY OF CENTRAL AND DIXIE DEER
                              2010 - 2011

At a meeting held in Central / Dixie Deer Fire Station on August 10, 2010, it was indicated that
the county was going to prepare a General Plan for the community. A questionnaire was filled
out by those present and submitted by others. Following is a brief analysis of the statistical
information from the questionnaire.

1.     Residency:

       For those responding to the questionnaire, the length of time living in the community
       ranged from two years to twenty nine years, with an overall average of just over eleven
       years. Those attending the meeting and filling out the questionnaire were about equally
       divided between Central and Dixie Deer Estates.

       The average family size reported was slightly less than 2 persons per family. This
       number is significantly different than the county which has an average of about 3
       persons per family. The lower number in this community may indicate a high
       number of retired persons living here. All of those responding are home owners.

2.     Reasons for living in the Central / Dixie Deer area:

       The greatest reason given for living in this community is that is a quiet community.
       Other reasons receiving votes include a small town atmosphere, the desire for open space,
       a safe community, and being close to the mountains, etc. These are all similar reasons for
       living in this community. For a person wanting to move to a place having these ideals,
       coming to this community would be a perfect decision.

3.     Should the rural character be preserved?

       One hundred percent of those responding to the questionnaire support maintaining the
       rural character of this valley. Some suggestions were given as to how to maintain the
       rural character. Most of the methods given for controlling growth are simply to allow no
       new development. This would be very difficult to do if a property owner wants to
       develop their property and they are able to meet the county requirements. Water may be
       the most limiting factor to any extensive expansion.

4.     Should farmland be preserved?

       Over 95 % of the respondents said that farmland should be preserved with only a few
       feeling otherwise. The ways to do this were similar to those given for protecting the rural
       atmosphere of the community. It does need to be pointed out that the county is not in the

                                               104
     development business. Development originates with some property owner selling their
     property to another person who wants to create a development.

     The county neither promotes development nor opposes development by persons who
     meet the current county subdivision ordinances. While the county is not promoting
     incorporation, the best way for a community to control their own destiny would be to
     incorporate.

5.   Would you favor developing a system of walking/bicycle trails throughout the
     community?

     Most of the residents indicated that they are not in favor of such a system. The traffic on
     the local streets in both Central and Dixie Deer are not high traffic roadways. Any of
     them can be used for walking or riding bicycles without creating a separate system of
     trails at no additional cost to the community.

6.   Mark on a scale of 1 to 5 your concerns on each of the following: Traffic, safety, street
     and road conditions, unsafe OHV use, street dedication, with 5 being the most concerned,
     1 being the least concerned, and 0 meaning there is no perceived problem.

     The largest concern expressed is for speeding vehicles through the community. This
     could be on the internal roads, but likely is directed to the State Highway or to the
     highway leading to Pine Valley. Of the other concerns listed, none reach the level of
     being major concerns.

     Several of the concerns have a moderate amount of concern, but overall, residents seem
     to be satisfied with off-highway vehicles, road conditions, or unsafe OHV use. The least
     concern listed relates to road dedication. Most of the roads in the community are
     dedicated roadways so it is an easy item to draw the least amount of concern.

7.   Desired commercial or industrial business:

     The residents mostly listed "none" as the greatest need for business in the community.
     Most residents are quite satisfied with not having commercial or industrial business
     available close by.

8.   Where should commercial or industrial development be located?

     Enterprise, St. George, and Veyo were all listed as good locations for these uses to take
     place. These responses are very similar to the response found in most of the "west side"
     communities. Many in Veyo were also opposed to additional commercial development.
     Veyo, is located centrally between two communities to the south, three to the north, and
     one to the west. Veyo may become a center for business simply by location as much as
     by desire.

9.   Relate your experience with local services as they relate to your area:
                                             105
      None of the services listed in the questionnaire received particularly high ratings. Water
      quality and service rated nearly 60 %, and telephone service and cellular services rated in
      the 50% level. For most other services the 40% ratio identified the level of satisfaction
      with most services.

      The lowest ratings were given to ambulance service, for which less was known about the
      level of service. Postal Service was also given a low rating with a number suggesting
      that they would like to have a post office in the community, or that the current location of
      mail boxes was somewhat of a safety hazard. There is not a likelihood of a new Post
      Office because of the cutbacks in postal service that are and will probably take place. By
      working with the Post Office, it may be possible to re-locate the existing boxes to a
      location away from the main highway to Pine Valley.

10.   Should the community consider providing recreation facilities?

      12.5 % of the residents indicated that recreation facilities would be desirable while over
      70% of the residents indicated that none were needed.

11.   List services that could be provided?

      Several types of recreation, or other facilities were listed in the questionnaire.

12.   How can you best be informed about meetings?

      Posting at the mail boxes was the highest recommended location for posting notices.
      Word of mouth and posting at the fire station also received high votes. Mailing to
      residents is not a viable option because of the cost involved in sending individual notices
      to residents of the county.

13.   Did you participate in the Vision Dixie planning program?

      Over 90 % of the respondents to the questionnaire did not participate in this program.
      However there were a few community residents who did participate.

14.   There were no significant comments made relative to comments of participants in the
      Vision Dixie planning program.

15.   Final comments:

      Several citizens identified the unsafe condition of the old lodge as a danger to the
      community and a building that should be torn down. The lodge is privately owned and
      would need to be identified as a community hazard before the county could become
      involved.


                                               106
Many citizens identified the need for a roadway linking Phase I of Dixie Deer with Phase
2 of that development as being a significant need that should be looked at to see if there is
any possibility of making such a connection. These were the major concerns in the
community. Many citizens indicated that they liked the community as it is as a desirable
place to live.




                                         107
                              THE GENERAL PLAN
                                     FOR
                 CLIFF DWELLERS, GRASSY MEADOWS SKY RANCH,
                         AND HURRICANE CLIFF ESTATES
                                  2010 - 2011

Introduction:

Cliff Dwellers, Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch, and Hurricane Cliff Estates are in an
unincorporated part of Washington County. Residents and others should take time to review
Section I of the County General Plan which discusses planning in general, the basis for planning,
and the purpose of planning. Many of the things mentioned in the beginning of Section VII of
the County General Plan are also relevant to the residents of this part of the county. The General
Plan provides guidelines for the future of this particular part of the county in addition to those
things that are applied county-wide in the other sections of the General Plan.

The development in this part of the county came about over a number of years. Three
subdivision developments have been recorded in the area. These were the Grassy Meadows Sky
Ranch subdivision that was recorded in six phases beginning in August 1984, the Cliff Dwellers
Subdivision that was recorded in two phases beginning in June 1993, and the Hurricane Cliff
Estates subdivision recorded on October 1, 2004.

Recently, the City of Hurricane annexed county property south of the Hurricane City Airport to
Sand Hollow Reservoir and Eastward to the base of the Hurricane cliffs. Except for a small
connection of this community to land under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management,
the area of Cliff Dwellers, Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch, and Hurricane Cliff Estates is now a
peninsula almost completely surrounded by the City of Hurricane. The residents of this
community chose not to be annexed to Hurricane City at that time, and therefore, is still a part of
unincorporated Washington County.

Geography and Topography:

The Cliff Dwellers / Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch / Hurricane Cliffs community lies in a long
valley bounded on the East by the 1,000 foot high Hurricane Cliffs, and on the West by lower
rolling hills that lie between this valley and the Sand Hollow Reservoir. The bottom of the
valley is relatively flat but much of the development lies on the hills sloping toward the West.
The valley itself lies in the south-central part of Washington County and extends nearly to the
Arizona Border. One of the features of this area is the location of a privately owned airport.
This airport provided the basis for this community in the very beginning. The airport landing
strip is adjacent to building lots which allows home owners to land their airplane and then taxi to
a hanger which is a part of their individual dwelling unit. This is the only facility of its kind
anywhere in the county, or in any surrounding area. It is unique to the Grassy Meadows Sky
Ranch part of this community.


                                                108
Even though the community is now nearly completely surrounded by a recent annexation by the
City of Hurricane, the area itself is located some 4-5 miles south of the center of the City. There
is little development between this area and central Hurricane.

Land Use:

Agricultural Development:

There is no agricultural land in the Cliff Dwellers / Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch / Hurricane
Cliff Estates development. There is some agricultural land north of this community in the Bench
Lake area. All of that area is now part of the City of Hurricane. Hurricane resisted annexation
of that particular area for many years because of the collapsible soil conditions, but did annex all
of the Bench Lake area.

Residential Development and Population Projections:

All of the land in this community, except for the private airplane runway, is of a residential
nature. Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch contains 6 phases, 96 lots, and an airplane runway located
on 193 acres of land. The Cliff Dwellers subdivision contains
2 phases, and 71 lots, is located on 142 acres of land. In addition, the Hurricane Cliffs
Subdivision contains 18 lots on 15 acres of land. These figures are shown in Table I below:

                                     Table I
                             Residential Development
          Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch          96 lots                   193 acres
          Cliff Dwellers                    71 lots                   142 acres
          Hurricane Cliffs                  18 lots                    15 acres

                              Total:              185 lots            350 acres


Located in these three subdivisions are approximately 114 homes and approximately 71 vacant
lots. Over the past 10 years there have been 67 building permits issued in the community. That
includes 29 in Cliff Dwellers, 28 in Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch, and
10 in Hurricane Cliff Estates

If the current rate of growth, based on the number of building permits issued, continues for the
next ten years, there will be about 4 vacant lots remaining. Using these figures, total build-out
could take place in just over 10 years.

Using the average family size shown by the questionnaires submitted last year of 2 persons per
dwelling unit, the current population of the area would be about 218 persons.

Using the number of building permits from the past 10 years, there has been an increase in
population of about 134 residents during that time period. Extending those same figures forward

                                                109
for the next ten years would show a population increase of an additional 134 persons for a 10
year projected total of 352 residents in the community.

One variable to these projections is the large parcel of vacant land that currently exists within the
community that is a part of Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch. Several years ago a Master Plan for
this area was approved by the county as a Planned Development. This means that the current
plan is the only thing approved to be built in the area. Because of the changes in the economy
over the past 4 or 5 years, it is most likely that the developers of this property at some future time
will approach the county to revise the current plan that was approved, and make adjustments to it
based upon current development trends.

To make any changes to the plan would require that the plan go back through the public hearing
process to amend the existing Planned Development Zone classification. Residents of the area
should be aware of this plan and be prepared to participate in public hearings and meetings at
such time as any changes are proposed to the current plan. For the purpose of this General Plan,
the land is shown as vacant / open space land, currently undeveloped. The area of the plan
contains some 750 acres of land which is approximately double the amount of land currently
developed. If fully developed, the vacant land area could double the population of the presently
developed land.

The other area which residents need to be aware of, and to monitor on a regular basis, is the
future development of land that is now in the City of Hurricane. One large development was
proposed in the county prior to annexation. Because of the current economic condition, this plan
was never pursued. It will likely resurface at some future time in Hurricane City, and the
residents of this community should be prepared to respond to any development proposals
through the City of Hurricane.

The long range future of this community lies in the hands of the City of Hurricane whether or not
the community ever becomes part of that city.

The Vision Dixie Summary:

According to the questionnaire circulated in the area, very few of the residents of this part of the
county participated in the Vision Dixie Planning project. The outgrowth of the study and the
recommendations made by the committee charged with reviewing the material collected was a
series of guidelines and politics aimed at guiding future growth and development in the county.
A summary of the Vision Dixie study, adopted by the county and most of the incorporated cities
and towns in the county is summarized for the residents of this community. Many of the Vision
Dixie principles have more application in the incorporated areas than they do in the
unincorporated areas that are currently developed, but some of the principles also have
application in the unincorporated communities of the county.

1.     Plan regionally, implement locally - The General Plan for this area of the county is
       prepared for the residents of this area specifically, and it is also a part of the county-wide
       General Plan. This Plan deals with aspects of the future of this area and may be amended

                                                 110
     or expanded from time to time as necessary, still dealing with the concerns of this area
     and not with the county at large.

2.   Maintain air and water quality, and conserve water - Air and water quality is currently
     very good. Water conservation is evident by the natural landscaping that is used in large
     measure by the residents of the community. Culinary water was generally rated as good
     by the residents.

3.   Guard our signature landscapes - One of the attractions to development in this part of the
     county is the open space character of the area and the visual qualities that exist in all
     directions. The existence of a mineral (gravel) operation along the base of the Hurricane
     Cliffs is part of the visual field. The view of the cliffs which rise some 1,000 feet above
     the valley floor still provides an outstanding view shed for the community. There are
     currently no restrictions on the view in the other directions.

4.   Provide rich, connected natural recreation areas and open space - This community has
     historically been surrounded by natural recreations areas and open space. To the extent
     that this condition will continue into the future will be up to the development policies of
     the City of Hurricane in which City all of the surrounding land is now located. However,
     it should be pointed out that there is a large quantity of private land surrounding this area
     that will not under any conditions be developed over the short term. The development of
     all of the private land surrounding this area will require decades in order for there to be
     significant changes. Growth in Washington County is currently developing very slowly,
     and even if the rate of growth increased to approximate the high rate of the early 2000'   s,
     it would require generations to fill in all of the land that was annexed by Hurricane City a
     few years ago.

5.   Build a balanced transportation system - This policy relates to circulation in the
     "urbanized" portions of the county. Currently only St. George City has a public
     transportation system that serves a portion of the city. This system does not extend to
     any of the adjacent cities to St. George City, and it could be years before public
     transportation regularly travels along the major corridors between Ivins and Springdale.
     Such a system is not likely to serve most of the unincorporated communities for many
     years into the future. There is nothing wrong with the policy except for a lack of funding,
     and the time it will take to see the system expanded throughout the county.

6.   Get centered by focusing on growth in walkable mixed use centers - This unincorporated
     community comes as close to being a walkable community as any other unincorporated
     community in the county. The development is very compact and is not spread out with
     large areas of no development between the various phases that have been developed.

     It is a mixed use center in the fact that about half of the development is related to the
     airplane industry where home owners also own a hanger for their airplane, and about half
     of the residents are in typical single family homes. Where the Vision Dixie Plan refers to
     mixed use in terms of apartments, low or high rise residential mixed with typical single
     family development, the development in this area does not qualify. It was started as a
                                              111
       single family development and that is how is has proceeded up to this point. Based upon
       the need for septic tanks for waste disposal, the mixed use plan identified in the Vision
       Dixie Plan would only have potential for use in areas where sewer systems are
       available.

7.     Direct growth inward - This is another policy where this community fits very well with
       the Vision Dixie Plan. There are no development gaps between the three different
       developments, and because of the Hurricane City annexation, there is no possibility of
       having phases of development separated from the current land use. Even the possible
       future development of the vacant land would fit with the Vision Dixie Plan in terms of
       keeping growth from spreading out away from the current growth pattern.

8.     Provide a broad range of housing types - This policy was mentioned above. It is not
       possible in any of the unincorporated communities in the county to have a mixture of
       housing types because of a lack of sewage service. Septic tanks, as a means of disposal,
       allow only typical single family homes. There will not be any other type of development
       in the existing land areas, and on the vacant land changes could take place if provision is
       made as a part of the development to install an on site treatment facility.

9.     Reserve areas for industry - This area of the county will never be an attractive site for
       industry. It is too far distant from major transportation routes i.e. the Interstate Freeway
       System. The area was never planned for industry and the only industries that could exist
       in the nearby area are the gravel operations against the Hurricane Cliffs. These
       developments can be considered as industry, but only for local consumption and not for
       long distance transportation to other population centers.

10.    Public land conversion - There is a connection from this development to land under the
       jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management. The BLM land will not be required for
       the future expansion of this community.

Commercial Development:

Commercial development is non-existent in this area of the county. The General Plan cannot
identify any area in the existing community for commercial use as suggested by the Vision Dixie
Plan. The General Plan does recommend that residents of the community oppose any form of
"strip commercial" development along the roadway between here and the center of Hurricane
City that may be proposed by developers on land in the city

Industrial development:

Industrial development has previously been discussed as one policy in the Vision Dixie Plan.
The area does not lend itself to industrial development, if for no other reason than the distance
from major transportation routes. There are mineral developments along the base of the
Hurricane Cliffs. These facilities are located from the Arizona border north to the top of the
Black Ridge. Unfortunately minerals are where you find them. These particular minerals,
(Gravel), are where they are, and they are becoming very hard to find in most other areas of the
                                                112
county. In the western part of the county along the Utah Hill area, most of the known deposits of
gravel have been mined out. Washington County is going to continue to grow and gravel is a
basic mineral necessity to make that happen.

Public Services:

A section of the General Plan dealing with public services s they relate county-wide is found at
the beginning of this section, Section VII, of the County General Plan. Some comments are
stated I this part of the plan as they relate specifically to the area of Cliff Dwellers / Grassy
Meadows Sky Ranch / Hurricane Cliff Estates.

Electricity:

This community is provided with electrical power by the Rocky Mountain Power Company who
has the franchise to serve most of this area of the county lying south of Hurricane City limits.
This company has recently upgraded their distribution lines from the Red Butte distribution
center. The main distribution line from Sigurd to the Red Butte station is also being upgraded.
With these upgrades, the power company feels that they should be able to provide electrical
service to its customers for many years into the future.

Natural Gas:

There is natural gas service available in Washington County. There is a main line that essential
follows the I-15 Freeway and detours through Toquerville, LaVerkin, and Hurricane, and then
continues to St. George. Another line comes through Enterprise and follows State Highway 18
to St. George. Unfortunately, unless a community is located along one of those main natural gas
lines, natural gas is not available. That situation affects this area and the Gunlock area. Many of
the unincorporated communities are along State Highway 18, and except for the cost of a
pressure reducing valve, could have natural gas in their communities.

Water:

The water system for this area was originally developed by Mr. Longley as a part of the
development of the community. The downturn in the economy has caused most development to
be placed on hold. This caused the developer to sell the water company to the Washington
County Water Conservancy District. They have the ability and capacity to supply water to the
community well into the future.

Sewage Disposal:
This public service has been previously discussed in this plan in relation to residential
development and the growth and development of the area. Presently the residents are served by
septic tanks as the means of liquid disposal.

One improvement that could be made to septic tanks would be to have the tanks inspected on an
annual basis to determine their continued ability to provide the service for which they were
installed. If they were inspected regularly and pumped as often as necessary for good
                                                113
maintenance, they should continue to serve the needs of the area well into the future. An
inspection and maintenance system could alleviate this potential concern. The General Plan
would recommend that a maintenance system in the area be considered for the area at some time
in the future. The current number of dwellings may not be sufficient at present to make this a
viable option.

Roads:

The greatest concern about roads in the area is the concern about the road identified as 700 West
in Hurricane and the Sky Ranch development. It has been a concern since the Sky Ranch
development was completed. Because of the size of the development, and because Sky Ranch
was a "leap frog" development several miles from the nearest development, the county became
responsible for the upgrading of the road between Hurricane City and Sky Ranch, which the
county was never able to do.

The only significant change between then and now is the fact that Hurricane City has annexed all
of the land between what was the former city limit and the development that has taken place in
the Sky Ranch area. Whether Hurricane can do what the county was never able to do, and
improve the roadway going south out of the former city limit to the Sky Ranch area remains to
be seen. If other development comes to the area, the cost of road improvements outside of any
new subdivision should be a part of the approval of the project.

Fire Protection:

The Cliff Dwellers / Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch / Hurricane Cliff Estates area is a part of the
Hurricane Valley Fire District. In reality, fire protection services come from the City of
Hurricane inasmuch as they have the fire protection services that are the closest to this valley.
La Verkin and Toquerville are both a part of the Hurricane Valley Fire District, but their fire
protection services are too far away from this community to provide a valid service.

There is currently discussion relative to dissolving the Fire District after the end of 2011. If that
should happen, it is likely that the City of Hurricane would again be responsible for fires in this
community. Under Utah State Law, if a city is providing city services to an unincorporated area
adjacent to their city, they could initiate annexation of the area to which they provide services
and bring them into the city whether the unincorporated area wanted to be a part of the city or
not. Under the currently undecided situation relative to the future of the Hurricane Valley Fire
District, the General Plan recommends that no change take place and that the existing Fire
District continue to provide service to the unincorporated areas within their boundary which
includes this and other parts of the county.

Solid Waste:

The community, as an unincorporated part of the county, participates in the Washington County
Solid Waste District. Pickup of waste in this area is collected in the same manner as it is in the
various areas throughout the county. The county solid waste board is made up of one
representative from each city or town along with one member from the county. This committee
                                                 114
oversees the collection of solid waste in the county. There is a central landfill location which is
owned by Washington County and managed by the solid waste collection agency. This site is
expected to be sufficient for many years to come. Overall, the solid waste program in the county
is recommended by the General Plan and currently works very well. In addition to the landfill
location and the door-to-door collection there are some satellite collection sites in various places
in the county where waste materials can be disposed of.

Building Inspection:

Building inspection for dwelling units and other types of building construction are provided by
the County Building Department. The cost of building permits is established to defray the cost
of inspection during the period of construction. Building permit fees in the unincorporated
communities are significantly less than are found in most of the incorporated cities and towns in
the county.

Communication:

Most of Washington County is served by the CenturyLink communication company. In addition
to CenturyLink services, there are a number of private cellular companies providing service
within the county. The CenturyLink telephone system was generally rated as acceptable in the
citizen questionnaire, but none of the cellular communication services were given acceptable
ratings. Over time, cellular services will likely continue to improve.

Flood Control:

Flood control is not identified by residents as a major problem in the Cliff Dwellers and Grassy
Meadows Sky Ranch Community. There are no major water courses in this area and no other
significant problems have been identified in the General Plan.

Incorporation / Annexation:

One final issue related to public services is the question of incorporation. Under Utah State Law,
a petition for incorporate must originate from the community that desires to pursue this
alternatives. The General Plan suggests that even if the number of residents would approve
incorporation of this area, being isolated from commercial or industrial services to support a tax
base, the residential development in this community would make it difficult to support a self-
contained community.

A further problem with incorporation in this area is the fact that the City of Hurricane, through
recent annexation, literally surrounds the community. Up to this point the community has
declined to annex into the City of Hurricane, and can continue to do so. The county will support
the community in whatever decisions that they might make now, or in the future, relative to this
issue. The county would support annexation, and the county will continue to support the
community being unincorporated. Whether to annex or not is a local decision. The community
should be aware that the vacant land in the Sky Ranch area could someday develop; it is possible
that the assessed value of the vacant area could exceed the value of the currently developed area.
                                                115
In this case the vacant area residents could request annexation to Hurricane City and bring the
current community into the city whether they wanted to be part of the city or not. That situation
is many years into the future because of the time it would take the current vacant land to reach a
"build-out" condition.


                    WASHINGTON COUNTY STATISTICAL SURVEY
                                     FOR
                      THE COMMUNITY OF CLIFF DWELLERS,
                         GRASSY MEADOWS SKY RANCH,
                          AND HURRICNE CLIFF ESTATES
                                  2010 - 2011

In September 2010, a meeting was held at the Hurricane City Library regarding the development
of a General Plan study for this unincorporated community area of Washington County.
Attendees were asked to respond to a questionnaire related to the current conditions in the area.
Additional copies could be submitted to the county planning department either in hard copy or
over the internet. Following is a summary of the questionnaires received by the county.

1.     Residency:

       a.      How long have you lived in the area?        5.75 years
       b.      Number in family:                           2.0
       c.      Homeowner:                                100 %

2.     Reasons for living in this area:

       a.      Born or raised in the area
       b.      Close to family, friends, or neighbors       25.0 %
       c.      Close to maintains, etc.                     91.6 %
       d.      Like open space                             100.0 %
       e.      Opportunity to keep animals                  58.3 %
       f.      Quiet community                             100.0 %
       g.      Recreation opportunities                     58.3 %
       h.      Safe community                               91.6 %
       i.      Small town atmosphere                       100.0
       j.      Other:         Private airport with home access, views, (before cell
                      tower), dark sky, airport

3.     Should the rural atmosphere be preserved?

       Yes:    100.0 %                                      No:

       How should it be done?      Limit lot sizes, no lots less than one acre, buy land for non
       development, limit development, keep the area green, no commercial, keep low density,
       don't build, do not annex
                                               116
4.   Should farmland be preserved?

     Yes:   66.6 %                         No:

     How should it be done?         Create community co-op'    s, have no building on collapsible
     soil, give incentives for farmers, zone for agriculture only, remove all county commission
     and planning commission members

5.   Would you favor developing a system of walking / bicycle trails throughout the
     community?

     Yes:   91.6 %                                 No:    33.3 %

6.   Mark on a scale of 1 to 5 your concerns on each of the following: Traffic, safety, road
     conditions, unsafe OHV use, road dedication. 5 = most concerned, 1 – least concerned, 0
     = no perceived problem.

     a.     Off highway vehicles on streets - 0 = 8.3 %, 5 = 25.0 %, 4 = 16.6 %,
            3 = 16.6 %, 2 = 16.5 %, 1 = 8.3 %
     b.     Speed and traffic control - 0 = 25.0 %, 5 = 41.6 %, 3 = 8.3 %, 1 = 8.3 %
     c.     Road conditions - 5 = 66.6 %, 4 = 25.0 %
     d.     Unsafe OHV use - 0 = 8.3 %, 5 = 33.3 %, 4 = 16.5 %, 3 = 16.5 %,
            2 = 8.3 %
     e.     Road Dedication - 0 = 16.5 %, 5 = 16.5 %, 3 = 16.5 %, 1 = 16.5 %
     f.     Other: Road maintenance to Hurricane is poor, leave roads as they are,
            re-cycle, no gravel pits in residential areas

7.   Desired commercial or industrial business:

     None (50.0 % of respondents), current services are adequate, allow no building on
     collapsible soils, give incentives to farmers, zone areas for agriculture only

8.   Where should commercial or industry be located?

     Hurricane (25.0 %), in town, none, existing commercial and industrial sites are okay, in
     industrial parks

9.   Rate on a scale of 1 to 5 your perception or experience with the following local
     services as they relate to the area. Excellent = 5, Poor = 1, No experience = 0

     a.     Ambulance - 0 = 25.0 %, 4 = 16.6 %, 3 = 33.3 %,
            2 = 8.3 %, 1 = 8.3 %
     b.     Drinking water quality and service - 5 = 16.6 %, 4 = 25.0 %, 3 = 33.3 %,
            1 = 8.3 %
     c.     Electric power - 5 = 41.6 %, 4 = 41.6 %, 2 = 8.3 %
                                             117
      d.     Fire protection - 0 = 25.0 %, 5 = 16.6 %, 4 = 16.6 %, 3 = 16.6 %,
             1 = 16.6
      e.     Garbage collection - 5 = 41.6 %, 4 = 41.6 %, 2 = 8.3 %
      f.     Law enforcement - 5 = 16.6 %, 4 = 25.0 %, 3 = 8.3 %,
             2 = 16.6 %, 1 = 16.6 %
      g.     Postal service - 5 = 41.6 %, 4 = 33.3 %, 3 = 8.3 %, 2 = 8.3 %
      h.     School transportation - 0 = 58.3 %, 5 = 25.0 %, 1 = 8.3 %
      i.     Telephone service - 0 = 8.3 %, 5 = 33.3 %, 4 = 33.3 %, 2 = 16.6 %
      j.     Cellular service - 0 = 8.3 %, 5 = 8.3 %, 2 = 33.3 %, 1 = 41.6 %
             k.      Other services: Internet limited, vendors, animal control officer,
             mosquito abatement, fiber optic cable

10.   Should the community consider providing recreation facilities?

      Yes - 25.0 %                          No - 50 %

11.   List any services that you feel should be provided:

      An indoor pool, aquatic center, an observatory, ampi-theater for performing arts, park,
      trails,

12.   How can you best be informed about meetings?

      a.     Word of mouth - 25.0 %
      b.     Posting at a fire station -
      c.     Posting at a store - 8.3 %
      d.     At the mail boxes - 58.3 %
      e.     On the county web site - 83.3 %
      f.     Other - 16.6 % - direct mail, public radio, E-mail

13.   Did you participate in the Vision Dixie Planning program?

      Yes    8.3 %                          No 91.6 %

14.   Your comments, if you participated:

      Preserve the environment, preserve visual resources

15.   Final comments:

      No high density construction nearby, keep the dark sky, minimal lighting, road
      maintenance is a major concern, fiber optic service and not cell towers, no annexation,
      upgraded roads



                                              118
                  WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY ANALYSIS
                                    FOR
                     THE COMMUNITY OF CLIFF DWELLERS
                        GRASSY MEADOWS SKY RANCH,
                       AND HURRICANE CLIFF ESTATES
                                 2010 - 2011

In September of 2010 staff members of the County Planning Department met with citizens of the
area of Cliff Dwellers / Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch / Hurricane Cliff Estates. Questionnaires
were completed by those attending with others submitting a response to the county planning
department over the internet

Following is a summary of the questions and the comments that were responded to by those
filling out the questionnaire.

Residency and family size:

The average resident of the Cliff Dweller / Grassy Meadow Sky Ranch / Hurricane Cliff Estates
community has lived in the area for an average of almost 6 years. There were several long time
residents participating, but also quite a few newcomers to the area.

No one who filled out the questionnaire indicated a family size larger than two. This would
indicate that the entire community would fall into the retirement category which is probably not
completely correct. However, the questionnaire did not ask any questions relative to age.
Whether or not most of those attending the meeting were retired is unknown.

There were a number of reasons given for living in the area. The highest number of benefits
mentioned were liking the open space and having a quiet community. These two categories each
received 100 % of the answers to the question of why they liked the area. The fact that it is a
safe community and the community is close to the mountains rated almost as high as the other
two reasons given.

Other reasons for liking the area included having a private airport, and an airport that was
attached to their dwelling. The views around the area were mentioned, and the dark sky at night
was also mentioned as an attraction to the area.

Should the rural area be preserved?

All of those responding to the questionnaire would like to preserve the rural atmosphere.
Maintaining large lot sizes, buying land for non-development were given as ways to maintain the
rural atmosphere. The county is not in a position to buy up land to prevent development. This
has been suggested in other communities in the county. There are, however, various groups that
do buy up development rights. This suggestion could be pursued by residents of the area as a
possibility in preventing additional development. Limiting development, no commercial
developments, don’t build, and do not annex, are recommendations that could happen, but of
which the county is not involved. Only existing land owners could make those decisions.
                                               119
Should farm land be preserved?

Nearly all residents filling out the questionnaire were in favor of preserving farm land. On the
other hand, there is no farm land in the community. In the case of this particular community, all
agricultural land has been annexed to the City of Hurricane. Some of the suggestions for
preserving the land are good suggestions but, in the case of this community, no longer have
application. Incentives for farmers including green belt designations, and farmland protection
designation can give protection to farmers. Co-op farming is a good idea if it can be
implemented on existing, privately owned farmland.

A suggestion was made to do away with the current elected county commission and planning
commission. However, having no government in the area is not a viable solution to maintaining
farm land. There is no place within this country were no government is acceptable. That
suggestion relative to the area being under the jurisdiction of the county would suggest that
perhaps the area should be annexed into the City of Hurricane rather than remaining as an
unincorporated part of the county. Certainly, that is an option open to the residents of the
community at any point of time that the majority of the residents petition the City of Hurricane
for annexation. It is not a decision for the county to make. This suggestion has nothing to do
with farmland.

Walking and bicycle trails:

Over 90% of the respondents were in favor of developing walking or bicycle trails in the
community. Except for such things on existing roadways, such a system does not exist in the
community. At such time as the vacant land in the community is proposed for development it
would be a good time to recommend that a system of walking or bicycle trails is included in all
new development. There is still more vacant land in the community than there is land that is
currently developed. A good system of trails in the undeveloped land, as it develops, could be an
asset to current as well as future residents of the area.

Concerns about traffic safety, street and road conditions, unsafe OHV use, and street dedication:

Of the above conditions, only one of these, road improvements, was rated at a high level of
concern by residents. Speeding received some concern by residents and most of the other areas
listed were rated relatively low levels of concern.

Most of the concern about road improvements has to do with the condition of the roadway
between Hurricane City, from south of the airport to Sky Ranch. That has been a problem for
years and has received minimal improvement. The road is now a part of the City of Hurricane
and all petitions for improvement of the road beyond the current condition would need to be
submitted to Hurricane City.

What should have happened and didn'   t, would have been to require the developer of Grassy
Meadows Sky Ranch to improve the road into Hurricane inasmuch as the Sky Ranch
development was essentially a "leap frog" development which should be discouraged in
                                               120
community development. Because Hurricane City did not want to annex the development when
it was proposed because it was so far from the improvements in the city, the county should have
turned it down for the same reason until it became a natural expansion of Hurricane City.
Because this was not done, and the county approved the subdivision, the condition of the
connecting roadway has been a topic of concern since the subdivision was first approved. It will
continue to be a problem until such time as development in the City of Hurricane extends along
that roadway and meets up with the development near Sky Ranch. Should the proposed
development adjacent to Sky Ranch, Cliff Dwellers, and Hurricane Cliff Estates again be
pursued, the position of the residents of this development should be to oppose such development
unless the road is improved as a condition of development to avoid additional "leap frog"
development on the part of Hurricane City. The situation has not changed. Only the jurisdiction
under which it will be developed is different.

Desired commercial or industrial business:

The majority of residents responding to the questionnaire would prefer that no commercial or
industrial development take place in this area. The existing business and industrial areas of
Hurricane City were the areas proposed for continued development.

Public services:

A number of public services in the valley were identified with a response as to concerns that may
exist with the various services provided.

There were no particularly high ratings. The highest rating was one of no concern relative to
school bus transportation which simply indicates that most family'  s are not involved with school
age children. Some ratings were in the 50 % range such as garbage collection and electric
power. Lower ratings were given to fire protection, law enforcement, telephone and cell phone
service, indicating that there is significant room for improvement in those areas of service.

There were other public services that were mentioned with which some citizens were concerned.
These included mosquito spraying, animal control, and obtaining fiber optic and cable services.
Two of these issues would involve county participation. The others would involve private
business which usually responds when it appears to be economically feasible to do so.

Should the area provide recreation facilities?

Half of the residents indicated that the area should not provide recreation services. A smaller
proportion of residents felt that some recreational facilities would be useful. These included a
desire for an indoor aquatic center, park, an outdoor theater for performing art programs in the
area, and an astronomy observatory.

How can you best be informed about public meetings?

Placing information on the county web site was the most recommended source of information
indicated by residents. This form of information is already being done. Other methods receiving
                                                 121
significant support included placing notice on the mail boxes, and to a lesser degree, by word of
mouth. Other suggestions included public radio and direct mail which on a county wide basis is
not economically feasible for use in the entire unincorporated area of the county.

The Vision Dixie planning program of some years go was not participated in by most
respondents to the questionnaire. Only a very small number of residents were involved. The
comments from the participants included preservation of the natural and visual resources of the
area which can be done in large measure because of the undeveloped public land in close
proximity to the community.

Final Comments:

A few final comments were made to the questionnaire which included keeping the dark sky,
having minimal lighting, fiber optic service instead of cellular towers, no annexation into
Hurricane City, and road maintenance (which was discussed under public services above).




                                               122
                THE DAMMERON VALLEY COMMUNITY GENERAL PLAN
                               2010-2011

Introduction:

Dammeron Valley is a part of the unincorporated area of Washington County. Residents and
others should take time to review Section I of the county General Plan which discusses planning
in general, the basis for planning, and the purpose of planning. Many of the things mentioned in
the beginning of Section VII are also relevant to residents of this part of the county. The General
Plan provides guidelines for the future of this particular part of the county in addition to those
things that are applied county wide in the other sections of the General Plan.

Dammeron Valley is among the more recent developments in the County and was never part of
an area settled by the original pioneer settlers. The first phase of the Dammeron Valley
community called the Dammeron Valley Ranches was recorded on May 17, 1976 and was the
first phase of many in the valley which included other names such Damameron Valley
Homesteads, Dammeron Valley Meadows, and some phases by other similar names.

On January 23, 1990, a companion development was undertaken named Pinion Hills. Several
phases of Pinion Hills have been recorded since that time. Pinion Hills is located on the hillside
along the south side of the valley and goes nearly to the boundary of the Red Cliffs Wilderness
area on the south.

Altogether in both developments there are some 382 lots that have been platted and recorded
since the beginning in 1976. Of these lots 255 have been recorded in the various Dammeron
Valley subdivision plats, and 127 in the Pinion Hills Subdivisions. All of this development has
taken place over the last 34 years.

Prior to the development of either of the current subdivision developments, the area was more
historically used for livestock grazing and a small amount of farming.

Geography, Geology and Topography:

Dammeron Valley is located on both sides of State Highway 18, just a few miles south of the
unincorporated community of Veyo, and a few miles north of another unincorporated community
called Diamond Valley. All three of these communities lie along Highway 18 connecting St.
George City on the south and the City of Enterprise on the North.

The Geology of the land in Dammeron Valley is very similar to the soil types found in Diamond
Valley. These soil formations make up about 8 % of the soil types in Washington County as
determined by a survey by the U.S. soil Conservation Service between the years of 1967 and
1971.

Quoting from this soils study the soils in Dammeron Valley are generally identified as belonging
to a group of soils called Napalene - Redbank - Schmutz - Palma association. Most of the soils
                                                123
in this classification are formed in alluvium from sedimentary and igneous rocks. These
formations have many elements in common. They are generally deep, well-drained brown and
reddish-brown silt loams. Permeability is moderately rapid above about 40 inches and moderate
below 40 inches. Runoff is considered to be slow and erosion hazard slight. Soils of this type
are normally found in slopes of 1 to 5 %. The soils will support irrigated and non-irrigated
crops.

The community of Dammeron Valley is generally identified as including about 1,850.51 acres
and 3.03 square miles of land. Dammeron Valley essentially abuts Diamond Valley on the south
and Veyo on the north. The land ownership of the valley is as follows:

                                     Table I
                        Land Ownership in Dammeron Valley
      Bureau of Land Management        287.33 ac.                       0.45 sq. mi.
      BLM Wilderness area                3.94 ac.                       0.01sq. mi.
      State of Utah                    501.49 ac.                       0.78 sq. mi.
      Private Land                    1,013.76 ac.                      1.78 sq. mi.
      Quasi Public Land                  3.99 ac.                       0.01 sq. mi.

                 Total:                      1,810.51 ac.               3.03 sq. mi.


The topography of the valley is generally level, in the Dammeron Valley part of the community.
The Pinion Hills development lies on the hillside along the south side of the valley.

Land Use:

Most of the public land under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management land is vacant.
A small part of the BLM land includes the northern end of the Red Cliffs Wilderness area,
recently designated by act of Congress in 2009.

There is one parcel of land in the valley designated as commercial land. It is located nearly in
the center of the valley, on the east side of Highway 18. Primarily it has been used as a
restaurant facility and has gone through several ownerships over the years. Other than this
facility, the only other commercial land in the valley is in the form of Home Occupations that
may have been approved by the county and for which the permits are renewed each year by the
county.

At the southern end of the valley is located the northern boundary of the Red Cliffs Wilderness
area that was created by Congress in 2009. This boundary is not likely to change. To the west of
Dammeron Valley is land owned by the power company which could be acquired for
development in the future. To the north is land owned by the State Institutional Trust Lands
which could also be made available for development in years to come. To the east is land under
the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management. This land is not likely to change its open
space use any time soon.
                                               124
                                         Table II
                                    Existing Land Use
          Residential Development                 836.90 ac.                 83.88 %
          Agriculture                                  -
          Vacant Undeveloped Land / Grazing       155.06 ac.                 15.54 %
          Commercial                                1.75 ac.                  0.01 %
          Industrial                                    -
          Public / Quasi Public                     3.99 ac.                  0.03 %

                          Total:                        997.70 ac.           99.46 %

The above figures are not survey accurate, but do paint a relative picture as to the relationship
between the various types of land use.

Open Space:

There is still significant open space in the area surrounding Dammeron Valley. On the other
hand, there is also significant land that could be made available for development if all of the
factors necessary for development are in place. Some of these things will be discussed elsewhere
in this plan.

Agricultural Land:

Agricultural land is currently limited in Dammeron Valley. Some lots, those of 5 or more acres,
are large enough to support a degree of agricultural use on the individual lot. The one acre lots
also provide agricultural use in terms of some livestock, particularly horse, stabling and riding.
The lots in the Pinion Hills development do not support agricultural uses. It was provided for in
the initial development to provide a green belt on both sides of Highway 18 through the valley.
The lots backing up against the highway right-of-way were established to prohibit building in the
rear portion of the lots. This land could be used for agricultural development including crop
production, livestock raising, and other similar green belt activities. There is likely some
agricultural land in Dammeron Valley, but this land is difficult to calculate as a significant part
of the valley area.

Residential Development:

There are basically three types of residential lot development in the Dammeron Valley
community. These lots include the Dammeron Valley Meadows and Ranches which consist of
lots of five acres in size. Most of the valley land is divided into lots of one acre in size which
was the minimum size that was approved for septic tank disposal, and which also provided for a
limited amount of agricultural use. The third type of lot was a smaller lot of 40,000 sq. ft. or less
which provided for residential development, but no agricultural uses. These lots are mostly
confined to the more recent development known as Pinion Hills.
                                                 125
                                         Table III
                       Type of Residential Lots in Dammeron Valley
                  Type of Lot       Total       Vacant    % Vacant
                  5 acre Lots        75         11        14.6 %
                  Valley Lots       180         55        30.5 %
                  Pinion Hills Lots 127         70        55.1 %

                            Total:      382          136         35.6 %

There are a total of 382 lots in Dammeron Valley with 136 of these lots being developed. In the
5 acre lot area, there are still 11 vacant lots which are not far from build-out. The 1 acre lots in
the valley area total 180, with 55 of them being vacant, and of those 55 lots, they are
significantly more than 11 lots, The Pinion Hills development is of a different nature. It is the
most recent development in the valley with over 50 % of the lots being vacant. There are more
vacant lots in Pinion Hills than in the other two areas combined.

There is one significant difference in the Pinion Hills area than the other two areas. That is, that
Pinion Hills is served by a single waste disposal system. The General Plan discusses this
situation in more detail under the section dealing with public services.

The actual number of building permits issued for dwelling units over the past ten years is shown
in Table IV as follows:

                                          Table IV.
                            Residential Permits Issued 2001 – 2010
                         Year    Dammeron Valley         Pinion Hills
                         2001            12                   3
                         2002            11                   11
                         2003            4                    7
                         2004            8                    2
                         2005            9                    6
                         2006            9                    4
                         2007            3                    4
                         2008            1                    0
                         2009            0                    2
                         2010            2                    1

                         Total:               59                    40


Over the past ten years, there has been an average of 10 permits issued each year. During the
years 2008-2010 there were very few permits issued in Dammeron Valley which reflects the
reduction in residential building county-wide as well as state and nation-wide. If the last three
years are deleted from the totals, the average per year becomes 13 permits per year, which may
be a more accurate figure during more “normal” times.
                                                   126
With 382 lots in Dammeron Valley and 35 % of them (136) being vacant and an average of 13
building permits per year being issued, Dammeron Valley could support further development of
permits per year for another 10 years before reaching complete build out. Under normal
conditions, a residential area never reaches a 100% complete build out. There will always be a
few vacant lots for whatever reason, which never get homes built on them.

Current Population and Population Density:

Dammeron Valley is part of the unincorporated area of the county. Specific population figures
for Dammeron Valley are not available. The average family size in the county is in the range of
2.8 to 3.2 residents per dwelling unit. Using these figures, it can be estimated that the current
population of Dammeron Valley would be in the range of 1,070 to 1,220 residents. Using an
average of 3.0 residents per dwelling, the figure would be about 1,150 residents at the present
time.

From a density standpoint, Dammeron Valley is still very low. Using the projected population
within an area of 1,810.51 acres, the density becomes about 1.57 acres per resident which is a
low density.

Future Growth and Development:

Projecting population over the next ten years is best done by using the average number of
permits for the past ten years combined with possible future growth. Permits could be expected
to increase incrementally over a period of years. The number of permits issued could likely be
reduced to an 8 year average because of the lack of permits the past two years. The desire for
single family homes will likely continue even though the Vision Dixie Plan calls for a mixed use
type of development with higher density interspersed with single family and commercial
development. How quickly the economy rebounds will determine how quickly additional
development will take place.

                                          Table V.
                                Projected Population Growth
                               Year Number of New Dwellings
                                      7 yr. Ave.    10 yr. Ave.
                              2011        13            10
                              2012        13            10
                              2013        13            10
                              2014        13            10
                              2015        13            10
                              2016        13            10
                              2017        13            10
                              2018        13            10
                              2019        13            10
                              2020        13            10
                                               127
Using the 7 year average, 130 permits would be issued in the next 10 years and 100 permits
would be issued using the entire 10 year average. In terms of actual numbers of residents, using
the 7 year average the population could increase by about 400 new residents. Using the 10 year
average, the projected increase would be about 300 to 400 new residents.

The above calculations, in simple terms, represent the current and future populations of the
Dammeron Valley area. The General Plan supports those calculations and projections.
However, in the case of Dammeron Valley, things are not that simple.

Lying essentially to the west of the current Dammeron Valley are three blocks of land, each of
which have potential for development. One is owned by the Utah State and Institutional Trust
Lands. These lands were intended by Congress at the time of Utah Statehood, to provide land
for the future support of the State School System. The land was intended to be sold over time
with the income from the sale to be placed in a trust, the income of which would ensure to the
schools of the state.

Another block of land immediately adjacent to Dammeron Valley is property owned by Rocky
Mountain Power Company. It runs westward from Dammeron Valley to the edge of Gunlock
and contains both the upper and lower sand cove reservoirs.

Adjacent to the power company property is another block of land under the jurisdiction of the
Bureau of Land Management. The 1990 BLM Resource Management Plan identified this block
of BLM land for future disposal purposes. The 2009 Land Bill, approved by Congress and the
President, also identified this parcel of land as being one that would be disposed of by the BLM.

There are no dates identified by which any of these blocks of land should be disposed of or
traded for development. Under the current economic situation, it is not likely than any of them
will change in the foreseeable future. In combination these blocks of land total some 4,500 to
5,000 acres of land. Such a development would reach from State Highway 18 westward to the
community of Gunlock.

Therefore the General Plan must bring this possibility to the attention of the residents of the
community of Dammeron Valley. Assuming that utility services, primarily water, could be
developed, there is really nothing that would prohibit development if it is requested at some
future time.

Because Dammeron Valley is unincorporated, and is not adjacent to any incorporated city or
town, the decision relative to the future essentially lies in the hands of the residents of
Dammeron Valley as to whether it should incorporate, or should continue to be an
unincorporated part of Washington County. The General Plan has always taken the position that
self determination is preferable to other forms of government, and that the government closest to
the people is the best possible form of government. Neither the General Plan nor the county has
authority to require incorporation. The decision as to whether or not to incorporate would need
to be made by the residents of Dammeron Valley. The only purpose of the General Plan is to
make the residents of the valley aware of the possible potentials that could take place at a future
                                                128
time so that the residents can weigh these considerations into any decision as to the future of
Dammeron Valley.

Vision Dixie Principle Summary:

Along with recommendations for residential growth and future development in Dammeron
Valley, along with other types of development such as commercial growth, the Vision Dixie
Project, which was sponsored by Washington County a few years ago, and which was adopted
by the county upon its completion, makes recommendations for many other phases of
community development. A summary of the Vision Dixie Principles and their relationship to
Dammeron Valley is shown as follows:

1.     Plan regionally, implement locally - The General Plan for Dammeron Valley is a local
       plan for the residents of Dammeron Valley, It is however, intended to be adopted as a
       part of the Washington County General Plan.

2.     Maintain air and water quality, and conserve water - Air and water quality is very
       important to residents of Dammeron Valley. Many people live in communities such as
       Dammeron Valley because of the clean air that exists. Conservation is also evident here
       because of the limited outdoor watering of lawn areas. There are trees in Dammeron
       Valley, however much of the landscaping is of a natural variety that does not require
       additional water.

3.     Guard our signature landscapes - See the section of the plan dealing with open space
       development. There is surrounding land surrounding Dammeron Valley, much of which
       will not be used for development purposes.

4.     Provide rich connected natural recreation areas and open spaces - There is no shortage of
       natural open space recreation areas surrounding Dammeron Valley. The Pine Valley
       Mountain is not far away on the east. The Red Cliffs Wilderness area is almost adjacent
       on the south.

5.     Build a balanced transportation system - The County has developed a county-wide
       transportation plan. See Section III of the General Plan for further information on the
       county transportation plan. As far as such things as a commuter bus system connecting
       Dammeron Valley with the St. George City valley, that service is still many years in the
       future, but could become a reality at a future time. It is possible that a bus system could
       operate between St. George City and Enterprise City at some future time with stops along
       the way in each of the communities along State Highway 18.

6.     Get centered by focusing on growth in walkable mixed use centers - In a community
       such as Dammeron Valley that was essentially developed prior to the Vision Dixie Plan
       being developed, it is difficult to retrofit the community into a mixed use center now that
       it has been almost fully completed. On the other hand, Dammeron Valley is compact
       enough that it could be considered to be generally walkable as it is currently developed.
       It is not a mixed use community in the true sense of mixed use, although the single family
                                                129
       homes do provide a mixture of lot sizes and uses within the community. It would be
       difficult at this time to identify areas for true mixed uses to be developed. Unless a
       sewage disposal system was installed for the entire community, it would be difficult to
       develop lots of a mixed use nature using septic tanks as a means of waste disposal.

7.     Direct growth inward - Dammeron Valley has been developed as a relative compact
       subdivision insofar as various sized of single family lots and homes are concerned. The
       valley, as well as all of the other unincorporated areas has not been able to support a
       higher or mixed use density using septic tanks. Sewer systems have not been available in
       the county with the exception of the Pinion Hills project which has been served by a large
       septic tank and by an on-site treatment facility at some time in the near future.

8.     Provide a broad range of housing types - This element has been discussed previously. As
       far as the unincorporated communities of the county are concerned, Dammeron Valley
       provides a greater variety of housing types than any other of the unincorporated
       communities. The Vision Dixie Plan suggests a broader variety of mixed uses and
       multiple family dwelling units which are not possible in this valley without a sewage
       disposal system.

9.     Reserve areas for industry - This is discussed in the following section dealing with
       industrial development.

10.    Public land conversion - No conversion of public land is needed for the build out of the
       community. However, as discussed in this Plan, there are potentials for future
       development in Dammeron Valley which would include much additional land being
       added to the valley, some of which has been identified for disposal by the BLM for future
       development. In an area of new development, the principles of the Vision Dixie Plan
       could be incorporated into community planning from the very beginning.

Commercial Development:

Commercial development is mostly non-existent in Dammeron Valley except for one
commercial business located adjacent to State High 18. There are also some home occupations
in the valley which can be expected to expand in future years. In some communities both
incorporated cities and unincorporated communities. Home occupations make up a significant
element in those areas. The General Plan would suggest that it may be possible for other
commercial business to locate in the Dammeron Valley area to provide additional commercial
facilities beyond the current business. The General Plan suggests that it would not be prudent for
Dammeron Valley to try to bring in businesses along the State Highway to attract consumers to
stop in the valley to shop for commercial services. It would be within the range of possibility for
commercial business to develop in the Dammeron Valley area to support the needs of the
residents of the community.

It is difficult to attract industrial or manufacturing business to an area without ready access to an
interstate freeway. State Highway 18 is a major highway, and as such can support a significant
amount of traffic. Further, it should be widened to at least four lanes all the way between
                                                 130
St.George City and the community of Central as quickly as possible. However, with all of the
potential for development of additional land in the Dammeron Valley area, only that land
adjacent to the State Highway would have any significant industrial potential. If it did develop
with an industrial base, it is still a significant distance to the Interstate 15 Freeway. For these
reasons, the General Plan does not project any significant industrial development in the
Dammeron Valley area during the time of this Plan.

Public Services:

A section of the General Plan relative to public services in the county is contained at the
beginning of this section of the plan, Section VII. Many comments are re-stated here as they
specifically apply to the community of Dammeron Valley.

Electricity:

Electric service in Dammeron Valley is provided by the Rocky Mountain Power Company. A
few years ago a new sub-station was constructed at the south end of the valley, about mid-way
between Diamond Valley and Dammeron Valley. With the completion of this sub-station, the
power company is better able to serve this area of the county. The same power company is
planning an expansion of their service capacity between the major power hub at Sigurd, Utah,
and the sub-station located at Central / Dixie Deer Estates. This expansion with another service
line is expected too be complete in about 3 to 4 years. This will provide good service to the
Dammeron Valley area for many years into the future.

During the county input meeting, comments were made relative to contact with the power
company relative to identifying ORV and other trails within the power company property. The
General Plan would support continued dialogue with the residents of Dammeron Valley relative
to providing access to and through the power company property.

Natural Gas:

A number of years ago, the Questar Gas Company installed a natural gas line from a point near
the town of Central, running parallel State Highway 18 southward toward the City of St.
George. The installation of this line made natural gas service available to communities along the
way, including Veyo, Dammeron Valley, Diamond Valley and Winchester Hills. This line
connects with the other major supply line serving the St. George valley from the east, giving
service to most of the county from either direction. This supply of natural gas should be
sufficient to serve all of the communities currently connected to the system for both current
demand and for future growth.

Water:

Water in Dammeron Valley is provided by the Dammeron Valley Water Company. This is a
privately owned company under the ownership of the developer of Dammeron Valley. It appears
that this system is sufficient to serve the community of Dammeron Valley through the period of
the General Plan. It would not be sufficient to provide culinary water to the other blocks of land
                                                 131
adjacent to Dammeron Valley that could, at some time in the future, be proposed for
development. It is possible that the Washington County Water Conservancy District would be
able to provide supplementary water to the valley at some future time, should it be necessary to
obtain supplementary water for the existing community, or to supply water for additional land in
the Dammeron Valley area.

Sewage Disposal:

Presently, liquid waste is disposed of through two separate methods. All of the Dammeron
Valley area is served by individual septic tanks. This system has seemed to serve the valley well
up to this point. In order to maintain the septic system as a healthy means of disposal, the valley
should consider a program of septic tank maintenance in which home owners pay a maintenance
fee just as a homeowner on a sewage system would pay. This would provide for an annual
inspection of each system in the community, with those needing pumping or other
improvements, these improvements would be made at no further cost to the home owner. In so
doing, septic tanks could be a satisfactory method of disposal for years to come.

The Pinion Hills portion of Dammeron Valley is presently connected by outfall lines leading to a
large septic tank and drain field system. This system has worked generally well since its
inception. At some agreed upon time, the developer is bonded to provide an on-site disposal
system to take care of the entire Pinion Hills system. This plan will work well, and will provide
service to the Pinion Hills area for the period of the General Plan.

An alternative to an on-site system would be to extend an outfall line from Dammeron Valley to
the existing sewer system currently extended to the Ledges development in St. George City.
This outfall line extension may be less expensive than the installation of a package plant. It
would particularly make sense if the community of Diamond Valley also precipitated in the
outfall line extension.

Washington County recently made an agreement with the Washington County Water
Conservancy District to oversee waste services to all of the western part of the county. Any new
development in western Washington County will be required to meet the requirements that may
be established by the Water Conservancy District.

Roads:

Road maintenance of the roads in Dammeron Valley now comes from the Washington County
Road Department. Most of the roads in the valley have been dedicated to the county through the
subdivision process. Most of the roads in the valley portion of the community are, or have been,
graveled while the roads in Pinion Hills have been paved via changes in county ordinance
requiring paved roads in subdivisions as opposed to gravel roads which were required many
years ago.

In unincorporated county areas, the roads are classified by the State as “Class B” roads.
Depending upon the degree of improvement, the county receives funds from the State for
maintenance purposes. This amount is subject to change from one year to another with the funds
                                                132
for maintenance coming from the Gasoline Tax applied to all gasoline purchased throughout the
country. Dirt roads receive the least amount of funding; paved roads receive the most
maintenance money.

In Washington County, roads have historically been maintained with the money received from
the State gas tax fund. Property Tax funds have not been used for road maintenance. It has long
been the county policy to maintain roads in essentially the condition in which they were created.
If the property owners in Dammeron Valley want to have their roads maintained at a higher
standard, the position of the county would be that when the owners of an area bring their roads
up to that higher level, the county will then maintain them at the new standard. This is
sometimes done through an improvement district that spreads the cost of improvement over a
period of usually not more than ten years, instead of a one-time payment up front from the
property owners.

Fire Protection:

Fire protection in Dammeron Valley is provided by the Dammeron Valley Fire Department.
This fire department works under the umbrella of the Dammeron Valley Landowners
Association. It is essentially a “stand alone” fire department and is not tied to either the
Northwest, or the Southwest District Fire Departments that serve areas both to the north and
south of Dammeron Valley. The fire chief participates in the county fires chief’s association,
and does participate in training programs available on a county wide basis.

There is a fire station located in Dammeron Valley, and the fire department is a volunteer fire
department. They do have significant equipment available for use by the firemen, and the
department would appear to be adequate for the community as it currently exists, including
Pinion Hills, assuming that there is no significant development outside of the currently platted
and recorded development. Should the valley experience extensive expansion, the issue of fire
protection could be revisited at that time.

Public Safety:

Police protection is provided by the Washington County Sheriff’s Office. This service will
continue as long as Dammeron Valley continues as an unincorporated part of Washington
County. This method of police protection would continue even if Dammeron Valley was
incorporated until such time as the town created their own law enforcement department. Some
communities have contracted with the county for an increased visibility of sheriff’s officers
through a contract with the county calling for more sheriffs’ visibility in their community
through a specific contract calling for more sheriffs’ protection in exchange for additional funds
being raised by the community.

Solid Waste:

A solid waste board, made up of one representative from each city or town in the county, along
with one member of the county, oversee the collection of solid waste in the county. This board
contracts with a private company to provide the collection of waste in the county. There is a
                                                133
central land fill location which is owned by the county and managed by the solid waste company.
That site is expected to be sufficient for many years to come. This system of management and
oversight is also expected to continue, and appears to be adequate to serve the valley.

Building Inspection:

Building inspection of new construction in Dammeron Valley is provided by the county building
department. The cost of a permit in the county is approximately $2,000.00 for an “average”
home. The cost of a permit is established in order to pay for the cost of the service provided, and
is intended to be subsidized by residents of the county in general. The county has no impact fees
outside of the fee for the preservation of the Desert Tortoise, which fee is collected county wide.
Some incorporated communities in the county also contract with the county to provide building
inspection services.

Communication:

Most of Washington County is served by the CenturyLink communication company. In addition
to CenturyLink services there are a number of private cellular companies providing service
within the county. Except for the possibility of a cellular tower somewhere in the Dammeron
Valley area, it would appear that communication services are sufficient for the present time.
There are some communication services through cable television and computer companies and
from satellite communications.

Flood Control:

Flood control has not been a major problem in Dammeron Valley compared to some of the other
unincorporated communities in the county. During heavy storms there have been time when the
culverts under the state highway have not been sufficient to carry the runoff, but overall,
Dammeron Valley has gotten by comparatively well.

Annexation / Incorporation:

There have been comments, from time to time, from the Dammeron Valley area relative to
consideration to incorporate as a stand alone community in the county. This issue was discussed
by the General Plan in the previous section dealing with residential development.

The General Plan would simply suggest that of all of the unincorporated communities in the
county, Dammeron Valley may have more to gain through incorporation because of the great
potential for development adjacent to the community. If all of that land remains in the county,
there is no reason for the county to give special direction to the development of these areas other
than through current county ordinances. Dammeron Valley could establish specific development
criteria that would allow development to take place, but under the direction of the current
community. The county would support incorporation of Dammeron Valley.

 The General Plan currently being proposed, would constitute a significant part of a feasibility
study, currently required by State law prior to an annexation being considered, without another
                                                134
extensive study being required for the same purpose. To incorporate or not to incorporate is a
local decision, and the county will continue to support each area of the county as an
unincorporated part of the county.


       WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY STATISTICAL SURVEY
                                   FOR
                     THE COMMUNITY OF DAMMERON VALLEY
                                2010-2011
1.     Residency status

       a.      How long have you lived as this location? 8 year average
       b.      Number in family     3 average
       c.      Home Owner 100 %
       d.      Land owner 100 %             3.25 acres average

2.     Please mark characteristics that you value the most or that help you choose to live or own
       property in this area.

       a.      Born or raised in the area                           22.2 %
       b.      Close to family, friends, or neighbors               22.2 %
       c.      Close to mountains                                   77.7 %
       d.      Like the open space                                  88.8 %
       e.      The opportunity to keep horses, animals, etc.        77.7 %
       f.      Quiet community                                      77.7 %
       g.      Recreational opportunities                            88.8 %
       h.      Safe environment                                     100.0 %
       i.      Small town atmosphere                                100.0 %
       j.      Other: There are four seasons here

3.     Should the rural atmosphere be preserved?

       a.      Yes 100 %                                            No      0
       b.      If yes, how should it be done?     Keep homes on large acreage, maintain
               CC&R’s, no 1/4 acre lots in 1 acre area, limit density and land use, manage
               growth, it is already being done.
       c.      Should existing farm land be preserved? Yes 88.8 % No 22.2 %
       d.      How should it be done? Tax breaks, water cost incentives, require more open
               space in developments, the land is privately owned leave it alone.

4.     Would you favor developing a system of walking/bicycle trails throughout the
       community?
             Yes 55.5 %                          No 44.4 %

5.     Please mark on a scale of 1 - 5 your concerns on each of the following: Traffic, safety,
       street and road conditions, unsafe ORV use, street dedication.
                                               135
      a.      Off-highway vehicles on streets - 0 = 44.4 %, 2= 22.2 %, 5 = 33.3 %
      b.      Speed/traffic control - 0 = 1 = 11.1 %, 3 = 33.3 %, 4 = 22.2 %, 5 = 33.3 %
      c.      Road conditions - 0 = 11.1 %, 2 = 11.1 %, 3 = 22.2 %, 4 = 33.3 %, 5 = 22.2 %
      d.      Unsafe ORV use - 0 = 44.4 %, 5 = 55.5 %
      e.      Street dedication - 0 = 44.4 %, 4 = 11.1 %, 5 = 11.1 %

6.    Desired commercial or industrial business?
             Yes 22.2 %                             No      44.4 %
      What types of commercial would be desirable?
             Restaurant, feed store, storage units,
7.    Where should it be located?
             Near the substation south of the valley, in St. George

8.    Rate your experience with the following local services as they relate to your area.
      Excellent = 5, Poor = 1, No experience = 0.

      a.      Ambulance / medical - 0 = 44.4 %, 3 = 11.1 %, 4 = 11.1 %, 5 = 22.2 %
      b.      Water service & quality - 1 = 11.1 %, 3 = 33.3 %, 4 = 11.1 %, 5 = 44.4 %
      c.      Electrical power service - 2 = 22.2 %, 3 = 33.3 %, 4 = 11.1 %, 5 = 33.3 %
      d.      Fire Protection - 0 = 22.2 %, 4 = 33.3 %, 5 = 44.4 %
      e.      Garbage Service - 4 = 22.2 %, 5 = 77.7 %
      f.      Law Enforcement - 0 = 33.3 %, 3 = 11.1 %, 4 = 33.3 %, 5 = 22.2 %
      g.      Postal Service - 3 = 22.2 %, 4 = 11.1 %, 5 = 66.6 %
      h.      School Transportation - 0 = 33.3 %, 4 = 33.3 %, 5 = 22.2 %.
      i.      Telephone Service - 1 = 22.2 %, 2 = 11.1 %, 3 = 33.3 %, 4 = 22.2 %, 5 = 11.1 %.
      j.      Cell Phone Service - 1 = 44.4 %, 2 = 33.3 %, 3 = 11.1 %, 5 = 11.1 %
      k.      Other - Natural Gas - 4 = 11.1 %

9.    Should the community provide recreation facilities for residents of the community?
             Yes 11.1 %                         No 66.6 %

10.   If answer is yes, list desirable facilities: Hiking trails, ATV trails

11.   How can you best be informed about meetings, times, agendas, events, issues, etc?

      a.      Word of mouth - 44.4 %
      b.      Mail boxes - 99.9 %
      c.      Fire Station - 66.6 %
      d.      Posting on the internet - 88.8 %
      e.      Other - Store - 11.1 %, Home Owners - 11.1 %

12.   Did you participate in the Vision Dixie program?
             Yes 33.3 %                     No 77.7 %
      What did you like most about it? It was a good presentation.

                                                136
             WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY SURVEY ANALYSIS
                                 FOR
                  THE COMMUNITY OF DAMMERON VALLEY
                               2010-2011

On July 27, 2010, members of the Washington County Planning Department met with residents
of the community of Dammeron Valley at the Dammeron Valley fire station. The group was
small, but those present entered into a discussion of the Dammeron Valley community.
Questionnaires were completed by those present with others able to submit the same information
over the internet or to fill out the form and submit them to the county planning office.

Following is a summary of the questions asked, and the comments that were responded to by
those present along with other comments submitted to the planning office

The length of time that residents have lived in the community was 8 years, and the average
family size reported was 3.

Many reasons were given for living in Dammeron Valley. These reasons included being born or
raised there; close to family, friends or neighbors. Because Dammeron Valley has not been in
existence for that many years, more reasons for living there included such things as being close
to the mountains and parks; the open space; it being a quiet community; the opportunities for
recreation; a safe environment, and all respondents favored the safe environment and the small
town atmosphere. One resident was attracted by the four seasons that exist in the valley.

All residents agreed that the small town atmosphere should be maintained. As to how to do this,
such things as keeping homes on large lots, maintenance and enforcement of the CC&R’s; and
by managing growth.

Most respondents also would like to maintain the agricultural use of land in the area. To do so, it
was suggested that tax breaks be enacted; water cost incentives should be offered to agriculture;
more open space should be required in developments; or, because it is private land, it should be
left alone.

There seems to be an interest in developing walking and bicycle trails in Dammeron Valley,
although the comments submitted also showed a strong feeling that these things are not
necessary or desirable. The respondents were quite evenly divided on this issue. .

A few respondents considered off-highway vehicles on the streets to be a problem. Most did not.
However, most had a significant concern relative to traffic control and speed on the streets of
Dammeron Valley. Road conditions seemed to be mostly acceptable, with a few respondents
indicating that further improvement would be desirable.

Relative to the unsafe use of ORV units in Dammeron Valley about half of the respondents had
no opinion, and the other one-half felt that there was a significant problem. Perhaps more
education of users, especially under-age riders might be necessary.
                                                137
A majority of those in Dammeron Valley are not supportive to commercial development in
Dammeron Valley. Among those that favored commercial development, such things as
restaurants, a feed store, and storage units were suggested. However, even among those wanting
some commercial development, the logical location was somewhere south of the valley near the
electrical substation or even further south, in the City of St. George.

There are a number of local public services that are provided in Dammeron Valley. These
include such things as ambulance service wherein about half of the respondents indicated having
no experience with ambulance service. This may indicate a healthy population not needing this
service. Among those seeing a need, or having had experience, most felt that the service was
reasonably good.

The provision of culinary water was rated very high suggesting a well run water system.
Electrical service generally rated quite high, and fire protection was generally good. Among the
best rating was garbage collection with law enforcement also getting generally high marks. The
service of the Post Office also rated very high, indicating that residents are mostly satisfied with
the service of the Post Office.

Many residents were unfamiliar with the provision of school transportation, indicating that many
of the residents do not have children of school age. Among others, transportation to schools was
rated good to excellent with no poor ratings.

Telephone service appeared to receive an “adequate” rating, but cell phone service would
indicate that perhaps additional cell phone service would be beneficial. Either a resident has a
service that works in the valley, or it does not. Overall, improvement in this area seems to be
desirable.

In terms of being informed of meetings, public notices, etc., a notice posted near the mail boxes
received the highest rating. The use of the internet also rated high, followed by notice at the fire
station, followed by work of mouth from one resident to another.

A few years ago, the county sponsored a planning effort titled “The Vision Dixie” program. As
far as respondents were concerned, most did not participate in this planning effort, with only a
few indicating that they had been involved. More will be said about this program as a part of the
body of the General Plan that is the major part of this questionnaire process.




                                                138
                        The Diamond Valley Community General Plan
                                        2010 -2011

Background and History:

Unlike many settlements in Washington County, the Diamond Valley area does not have a
historical pioneer heritage. The community is not mentioned in any history books on the subject
of Washington County. The private property in Diamond Valley has been owned by a number of
owners over the years, and it appears to have been used primarily for ranching and livestock
grazing.

In the late 1950's, Arlen D. Moore began purchasing property in the Diamond Valley area, and
consolidating much of the landownership in the valley. Mr. Moore was responsible for the
construction of a ranch house in the northern end of the valley. He also constructed livestock
stables, a bunk house, a pond, and developed much of the original water supply that now serves
the community.

In the early to mid 1970'
                        s a group of local investors joined together in purchasing the Moore
property and created an organization known as Diamond Valley Ranches, Inc. This started the
development of Diamond Valley, and the beginning of what has come to be known today as the
Diamond Valley community.

Over the years, Diamond Valley has developed into a quiet, attractive community not fronting
along State Highway 18, but rather developed into a quiet, attractive community located off the
highway, and nestled in the valley that was originally the Moore Ranch. The developmental
history of the valley therefore dates back about twenty-five to thirty years, making it one of the
more recent developments in Washington County.

Geography, Geology, and Topography:

Geographically, Diamond Valley lies about midway between the "historic" boundary of the City
of St. George, and the unincorporated town of Veyo. About the same time as the development of
Diamond Valley was taking place, other developments were springing up along State Highway
18, including the communities of Winchester Hills, Dammeron Valley, and its companion
development of Pinion Hills. Diamond Valley is reached via State Highway 18 between St.
George and Enterprise which is located at the north end of the county.

The topography of the valley generally slopes from north to south, and is surrounded by
relatively low hills sloping toward the Pine Valley Mountains. The valley itself slopes generally
toward the south and was, at one time self contained. This means that it was a closed valley with
no outlet at the south end of the valley, in effect creating a "dry lake" in times of storm runoff.

The closed valley has since been breached to allow water to escape from the valley into the lava
rocks at the southern end. Flooding in the valley is still a problem in some areas of the
community and this issue needs to be brought to a conclusion.

                                                139
Quoting from a soils study of the county done by the U. S. Soil Conservation District between
the years 1967 and 1971, soils in Diamond Valley are generally identified as belonging to a
group of soils called the Napalene - Redbank - Schmutz - Palma association. Most of the soils in
this classification are formed in alluvium from sedimentary and igneous rocks. These formations
have many elements in common. They are generally deep, well-drained brown and reddish-
brown silt loams. Permeability is moderately rapid above about 40 inches and moderate below
40 inches. Runoff is considered to be slow and erosion hazard slight. Soils of this type are
normally found in slopes of 1 to 5 %. The soils will support irrigated and non-irrigated crops.

The community of Diamond Valley is generally identified as including about 19.1 square miles
(13,582.0 acres) of land. Diamond Valley essentially abuts Winchester Hills on the south and
Dammeron Valley on the north. The ownership of the valley is as follows:

                                    Table I
                        Land Ownership in Diamond Valley
           Ownership/Management               Acres                      Sq. Mi.
      National Forest                       2,877.84                      4.50
      Bureau of Land Management             6,338.21                      9.90
      State of Utah                           196.12                      0.31
      State Park                            1,575.50                      0.34
      Private Land                          2,584.19                      4.04
      Quasi Public Land                        10.21                      0.02

                    Totals:                       13,582.03              19.11

Land Use:

Most of the public land, specifically the land under the jurisdiction of the National Forest land,
and the Bureau of Land Management land, is vacant, undeveloped land except for some minimal
mineral development near the north end of the valley on BLM land. Much of this land has
historically been used for livestock grazing and has not changed for many years.

The land inside the northern end of Snow Canyon State Park is generally an undeveloped part of
the Park, particularly the land that lies within the Diamond Valley community. That part of the
Park area is not likely to change at any time in the foreseeable future. The natural lava rock on
the State Park land provides for permanent open space, and helps to provide a buffer between
Highway 18 and the community.

There is currently no land in the valley identified as commercial land beyond a number of home
occupations licensed to various residents. There is one identified mineral extraction lease on
BLM land that is used for the extraction of aesthetic rock products. This site has been used for a
number of years under a Bureau of Land Management lease, years and could be classed as an
industrial development, even though the use is minimal in nature.



                                               140
Another industrial use in the area is on a portion of the cinder pit adjacent to Highway 18.
Cinders have been removed for many years for use on roads in the area, to make cinder blocks,
and for decorative purposes. A portion of the pit is included in Snow Canyon State Park. The
balance of the site is privately owned and could still be used for the mining of cinders.

Of the land in the Diamond Valley area under control of the State, some 180 acres belong to the
Institutional Trust Land Division of the State of Utah. This land could become available for
development.

There is an elementary school in the valley. The land for this school was obtained some years
ago when the Washington County School Board felt that an elementary school was needed for
this part of the county. The School District obtained ten acres of land from the Diamond Valley
developers, purchased a building lot from a resident which provided access to the ten acre site,
and moved ahead to construct the elementary school.

There is very little agricultural land in the valley. Land is still devoted to livestock grazing.


                                      Table II
                                 Existing Land Use
       Residential Development                  410 acres                   17.05 %
       Agriculture                               79 acres                    2.74 %
       Vacant Undeveloped Land /Grazing        1,876 acres                  78.72 %
       Commercial                                0 acres                         0%
       Industrial                                8 acres                      .33 %
       Public / Quasi Public                     10 acres                      .42%
                       Total:                  2,383 acres                  99.26 %


The above figures may not be survey accurate, but they paint a relative picture as to the
relationship between the various types of land use. Considering the private land in the
community alone, some 1,876 acres (78.72%) of private land is undeveloped. There is still much
room for various types of land-use development. One of the benefits of living in Diamond
Valley is that while the amount of private land would allow it to grow significantly, it is really an
island surrounded by public land, most of which likely will never be developed.

Open Space:

Approximately 81% of the land within the Diamond Valley community area is public land. This
land is open space, undeveloped property. Some of it could be, and probably is used for
livestock grazing. No other development on the public land is proposed. The public land is not
an area high in mining or mineral claims. The current mining of decorative rock is likely the
maximum amount of mineral activity on the public land in the Diamond Valley area.



                                                 141
Agricultural Development:

Agriculture in Diamond Valley is mainly a small amount of dry-land farming and a sod farm
which has more recently been converted to crop farming in the form of alfalfa. Prior to
residential subdivision development taking place, the area was historically used for livestock
grazing, and was never a major farming area in Washington County.

With the limited amount of agricultural use taking place in the valley, it can be expected that the
amount of land devoted to agriculture will diminish as the need for other development takes
place. Anyone wanting protection should apply for an agricultural protection area to protect
their farmland from adjacent development. Once in an agricultural protection area, it is not
protected for any specific length of time. The land owner may remove it from that designation at
any time.

Residential Development:

The first subdivision plat in Diamond Valley was recorded on January 29, 1975. There have
been a total of nine plats recorded in subsequent years along with a few individual lot splits.
There are currently 378 platted and recorded lots, not including about 11 lots that were approved
outside of the platted area. The total number of dwelling units presently existing in Diamond
Valley is 313 homes along with various accessory or miscellaneous buildings.

The actual number of building permits issued for dwelling units during the past thirteen years is
shown in Table III as follows:

                                        Table III
                         Residential Permits Issued 1997 – 2010
                                         Number of Permits
                  Year
                  2000                           13
                  2001                            8
                  2002                            9
                  2003                           16
                  2004                           21
                  2005                           14
                  2006                            2
                  2007                            6
                  2008                            2
                  2009                            0
                  2010                            0

                            Total: 91     Average: 10.1 per year*




                                                142
* Over the past decade there has been an average of 10.1 permits issued each year. This does not
include the years 2009-2010 when no permits were issued because of the decline in the economy.

Theoretically, with 378 subdivision lots and 300 homes in platted subdivisions, Diamond
Valley could reach "build out" in about six more years. Realistically, that scenario will not
happen. Currently, according to the County Planning Department figures there are an additional
300 lots in some state of proposed development. This many additional parcels could, if fully
developed, nearly double the current amount of residential development available in the valley.

Current population and population density:

Because Diamond Valley is part of the unincorporated part of the county, population figures are
not available for the community itself. However, the average family size in the county is in the
range of 2.8 to 3.2 residents per dwelling. Using the total number of dwelling units in the area,
313 and multiplying by an average of 3.2 residents, the current projected population would be
1,000 residents. If the lower range of 2.8 residents per dwelling unit is used, the total would be
nearly 900. Perhaps a figure of 3.0 residents per dwelling unit would be a more accurate figure,
making the current population about 900 - 950 residents at this time.

From a density standpoint, Diamond Valley is very low. Using a population of 950 residents,
and 10,997.84 acres, the density is about twelve acres per resident. By any standard of
measurement, that is a very low density.

Future Growth and Development:

Because Diamond Valley is unincorporated and is not adjacent to any other incorporated city or
town, Diamond Valley has essentially two choices in the future. One choice is to incorporate as
a town. The other is to remain as an unincorporated part of the county. The General Plan has
always stated that self determination is preferable to other forms of government, and that the
government closest to the people is the best possible form of government. Nevertheless, the
General Plan has no authority to require incorporation. The decision as to whether to incorporate
or not to incorporate would need to be made by the residents of Diamond Valley.

Projecting population over the next ten years is best done by using the average number of
permits for the past ten years combined with possible future growth. Permits could be expected
to increase incrementally over a period of years. The desire for single family homes will likely
continue even though the Vision Dixie Plan calls for a mixed use type of development with
higher density interspersed with single family and commercial development. The lack of septic
tanks in Diamond Valley has slowed development here for some time. With recent State
Department of Environmental Quality approval, new methods of waste disposal are now
available as an alternative to septic tanks. The use of one of their methods for new development
could significantly change the number of new permits that could be issued in coming years.

It should be noted that the number of permits has been relatively low for the past several years.
Reflecting the slow National economy which has also affected the growth and development in
Washington County.
                                                143
There are several hundred lots that have been preliminarily proposed to the county by developers
who are interested in the Diamond Valley area. How the economy rebounds will determine how
quickly some of these developments might take place.


                                         Table IV
                               Projected Population Growth
                      Year    Number of New Dwellings Population
                      2011                 5                965
                      2012                 6                983
                      2013                10               1,013
                      2014                10               1,043
                      2015                10               1,073
                      2016                12               1,049
                      2017                14               1,091
                      2018                17               1,142
                      2019                20               1,202
                      2020                25               1,277



Without more accurate current population figures, and by trying to project future rates of growth,
the above figures are but a rough estimate of future population growth in Diamond Valley.
These figures should be reviewed regularly and corrected based on current and more accurate
figures.

Vision Dixie Principle Summary:

Along with recommendations for residential growth and future development in Diamond Valley,
along with other types of development such as commercial growth, the Vision Dixie Project,
which was sponsored by Washington County, and which was adopted by the county upon its
completion, makes recommendations for many other phases of community development. A
summary of the Vision Dixie Principles and their relationship to Diamond Valley is shown as
follows:

1.   Plan regionally; implement locally - The General Plan for Diamond Valley is a local
     Plan for Diamond Valley, and is a part of the General Plan for the county.

2.   Maintain air and water quality, and conserve water - Air and water quality is very good in
     Diamond Valley. Most outside landscaping in the valley is minimal. Most of the lots are
     covered with native plant materials except for a small area of landscaping immediately
     around the dwelling unit. Conservation of water in Diamond Valley is important to the
     residents of this part of the county.

                                               144
3.    Guard our signature landscapes - see the section of this plan relative to open space
      development.

4     Provide rich, connected natural recreation areas and open space - also covered in the report
      dealing with open space, and recreation development in the community.

5.    Build a balanced transportation system - The county has developed a county-wide
      transportation plan. See section III of the General Plan for information dealing with
      transportation in Washington County. See also the road section of this community Plan.

6.    Get centered by focusing on growth in walkable-mixed use centers. Mixed use centers are
      difficult to develop based on the current pattern and the limited use of any mixed use
      projects based on the limitations caused by septic effluent. Commercial development areas
      may be identified on the General Plan map, economic potential will be weighed by a
      commercial business prior to making a decision to bring a business to Diamond Valley.

7.    Direct growth inward - Diamond Valley was developed as a compact subdivision
      development. There has been some scattered development on the low hills east of the main
      development, but, for most part, growth expansion has, up to this point, been controlled.
      Future development should be done by moving outward, not by leap-frogging outward and
      then filling back in to the valley.

8.     Provide a broad range of housing types - this has been discussed previously. A broad
      range of housing types is not possible without of installing a waste disposal system.

9.     Reserve areas for industry - this is discussed in the following section dealing with
      industrial development. There is little potential for industrial development in Diamond
      Valley.

10.    Public land conversion - No conversion is proposed or needed for proper build-out or
      growth of Diamond Valley.

Commercial Development:

Commercial development is non-existent in Diamond Valley, except for some home occupations
of a commercial nature. Home occupations will probably continue to grow as the area expands.
In some of the other "bedroom" communities in the county, home occupations make up a
significant element in those communities.

One goal of the Vision Dixie Project is to try to make communities as sustainable as possible.
This means that residents should be able to find work where they live, and that circulation
through the community might be better accomplished with walking and bike paths as opposed to
automobiles. In light of the Vision Dixie policies, the General Plan has attempted to identify an
area where convenience commercial services in Diamond Valley could be located in an effort to
reduce Highway 18 traffic traveling to St. George or Veyo for incidental commercial needs.

                                                 145
Highway commercial development is not recommended by the General Plan. There is no benefit
to Diamond Valley in trying to stop traffic on Highway 18 to spend money in Diamond Valley.
Any commercial development should be for the use and benefit of the residents of the valley
without regard to whether or not anyone from outside the valley stops here. Whether or not
commercial business comes to Diamond Valley depends more upon economic decisions, than it
does a future land planning recommendation.

Industrial Development:

It is difficult to attract industrial or manufacturing business to an area without ready access to an
interstate freeway. The likelihood of bringing industrial development to Diamond Valley would
appear to be very unlikely.

Existing industrial development consists of the extraction of cinders at the cinder cone, and the
minimal amount of decorate rock removed for decorative purposes. Even though the area of land
covered by cinders is included within the total land use, only one portion of the cinder pit is used
for cinder extraction. A portion of the cinder pit is within Snow Canyon State Park, and will not
be developed industrially by the State Park.

Public Services:

A section on public services as they relate county-wide is found at the beginning of this section,
Section VII, of the General Plan. Some comments are re-stated herein as they might relate
specifically to the community of Diamond Valley.

Electricity:

Electric service in Diamond Valley is provided by the Rocky Mountain Power Company. A few
years ago a new electric sub-station was constructed about mid-way between Diamond Valley
and Dammeron Valley. With the completion of this sub-station, the power company is better
able to serve this area of the county. The same power company is also moving toward an
increase of capacity between the sub-station at Sigurd, Utah, and the sub-station located adjacent
to Dixie Deer Estates in Washington County. With the completion of this additional
transmission line, Diamond Valley should be provided with sufficient electrical power to provide
for all future growth that might take place for many years to come.

Natural Gas:

A number of years ago, the Questar Gas Company installed a natural gas line from a point near
the town of Central parallel to Highway 18, and running toward the St. George valley. The
installation of this line made natural gas available to all of the communities along the way,
including Veyo, Winchester Hills, Diamond Valley, and Dammeron Valley. This line was inter-
connected with the line serving the St. George Valley from the Interstate Freeway line, giving
service to most of the county from either direction. This supply of natural gas should be
sufficient to serve all of the communities presently connected to the system for both current
demand and for future growth.
                                                 146
Water:

Water in Diamond Valley is currently provided by the Diamond Valley Water Company. This is
a mutual water company owned and operated by the residents of Diamond Valley. There may
also be other water sources in the valley that are privately owned. The supply of water owned by
the water company is projected to be adequate to serve all of the recorded building lots in the
valley, as well as such things s the school, park, fire station, church, etc.

The Washington County Water Conservancy District provides supplementary water to many
parts of the county as well s to many of the incorporated cities and towns. The District has
indicated that that they are willing to provide additional water to the Diamond Valley area as
development continues to take place. This source of water should provide a stable water source
to Diamond Valley well into the future.

Sewage Disposal:

Presently, liquid waste is disposed of by means of individual septic tanks. These have been
approved for all of the platted lots in Diamond Valley, as well as some lots not within regularly
platted subdivisions. This system has seemed to serve the valley well up to this point. However,
based upon a ground water study performed by Hansen, Allen, and Luce, Engineers, in 1998,
their study indicated that most of Diamond Valley is located on the Navajo Sandstone formation,
which is the formation from which most of the ground water serving southern Washington
County is found. Further, based upon their report, if each currently platted and recorded lot in
Diamond Valley was occupied with a home, the valley would exceed their recommended density
for septic tanks. As a result, of this study, development of additional subdivision lots has been
limited for some time.

More recently, a number of alternate on-site waste disposal systems have been approved by the
State Department of Environmental Quality, and are now being approved for use in various areas
of Utah. Some developers are looking at these methods as a means of eliminating the possibility
of ground water pollution, and are actively considering such methods to allow further
subdivision of the land in Diamond Valley.

Washington County has contracted with the Water Conservancy District to oversee sewage
disposal in the western part of the county. As an unincorporated part of the county, Diamond
Valley is under the supervision of the Water District to oversee sewage disposal.

Should Diamond Valley determine at some point to incorporate, another consideration for the
community would be to petition the City of St. George to connect to the St. George sewer system
which currently serves Ivins, Santa Clara, and Washington City, in addition to the City of St.
George. Outfall lines already extend to the southerly end of Winchester Hills, which could make
connection to this system preferable to the installation of one or more on-site treatment plants in
the community. Dammeron Valley is interested in incorporation for the very purpose of
connecting to the St. George sewer system. If both of these areas were to make a joint

                                                147
application to St. George City, it could reduce the cost to install an outfall line to serve both areas
at the same time.

Roads:

Road maintenance in the community of Diamond Valley is currently provided by the
Washington County Road Department. There is a combination of roadway types presently
existing in the valley. Not all of the roads are dedicated roadways. Many of the lesser improved
roads are considered to be roads by right of use. In other words, the road has been there for
many, many, years, and has been used by the public to travel to and from certain areas of the
county. In the county, the state classifies roads as class "B" roads.

Financing for maintenance of county roads comes from the Utah Department of Transportation
through a funding formula that allows different amounts of maintenance money for different
types of roads. Dirt roads receive the least amount of funding, paved roads receive the most.
There are approximately twenty-five miles of roads in Diamond Valley. The actual amount of
funding is set by the state and is adjusted annually. It tends to fluctuate from year to year. Road
maintenance funds come from user fees derived from the gasoline tax, which somewhat depends
on how many miles a person drives and how much gasoline they use.

It has long been the policy of the county to maintain roads essentially in the condition in which
they were created. If property owners in a given area want to have their roads improved to a
higher standard, the position of the county would be that when the owners of an area bring their
roads up to a higher standard, the county will then maintain them at the new standard. This is
sometimes done through an improvement district that spreads the cost of improvement over a
period of usually ten years, instead of a one time payment up front from the property owner.

Under the Washington County Land Bill adopted by Congress in April, 2009, and signed by the
President, the Bureau of Land Management is required to identify a route for an east-west right-
of-way for the future construction of a major route for a right-of-way for the construction of a
major collector roadway. The General Plan for the county has identified four alternatives for
possible consideration which may, or may not, be the same as those routes identified by the
BLM.

One of the potential future routes passes through the habitat conservation area from Mile Post 13
in Washington City and connects with Highway 18 at the intersection with Snow Canyon
Parkway. Two other routes begin in the Ledges area of St. George City with one route turning
north on the Cottonwood road and then eastward towards Leeds, the other turning south on the
Cottonwood road and connecting to Mile Post 13 in Washington City. The last of these four
alternatives begins in Diamond Valley and goes eastward to Leeds staying completely north of
the habitat plan area.

The likelihood of any of these routes being constructed is probably many years away. The
congressional bill requires that the BLM consult with the county and the City of St. George in
making a decision on any route. Once that decision is made, the county will amend their

                                                 148
transportation map to adopt the agreed upon route. This decision will not be made for two or
three years into the future.

Fire Protection:

Fire protection in Diamond Valley is provided by the South Western (SWSSD) Special Service
District. This service is expected to remain much the same as it currently is for the foreseeable
future. A new fire station has recently been constructed in the Diamond Valley area to better
serve the residents of the valley. The department is made up primarily of volunteer firemen from
within the community.

Public Safety:

Police protection is provided is provided by the Washington County Sheriff'  s office. This
service will continue as long as Diamond Valley continues as an unincorporated part of
Washington County. This method of police protection would also continue if Diamond Valley
was incorporated until such time as the town created their own law enforcement department.
Some communities have contracted with the county to increase the amount of sheriff'    s visibility
in their community through a specific contract calling for more sheriff'
                                                                       s protection in exchange
for additional funds being raised by the community.

Solid Waste:

A Solid Waste Board made up of one representative from each city or town, along with one
member of the county, oversee the collection of solid waste in the county. This board contracts
with a private company to provide the collection of waste in the county. There is a central land
fill location which is owned by Washington County and managed by the solid waste company.
That site is expected to be sufficient for many years to come. This system of management and
oversight is also expected to continue

Building Inspection:

Building inspection of new construction in Diamond Valley is provided by the county building
department. The cost of a permit in the county is presently about $2,000.00 for an "average"
home. The cost of a permit is established to pay for the cost of the service provided and is not
intended be subsidized by residents of the county in general. The county has no significant
impact fees outside of the fee for the preservation of the Desert Tortoise which fee is collected
county wide. Some incorporated communities also contract with the county to provide building
inspection services,

Communication:

Most of Washington is served by the CenturyLink communication company. In addition to
CenturyLink services there are a number of private cellular companies providing service within
the county. Except for the possibly of a cellular tower somewhere in Diamond Valley, it would
appear that communication services are sufficient for the present time. There are communication
                                                149
services provided through cable television and computer companies and from satellite
communications.

Flood Control:

Because of the closed nature of Diamond Valley, flooding has, over the years, been a problem in
many parts of the valley. The county has completed a flood control plan to determine the
projected amount of runoff that could occur at any given time. The county has agreed to work
with the community, over a period of time, as funding can be identified, to implement the
engineering plan. This could include the installation of storm drains, or other measures, to help
alleviate the flooding problem. This has been an ongoing problem for many years with which
the county will continue to be involved.

Annexation/Incorporation:

Some years ago, the Diamond Valley area gave some serious thought to possible incorporation.
Incorporation as a stand along town is still an option that the community is able to consider at
any time. Should that issue arise in the future, this General Plan would provide a basis, with
some additions, to completing an updated feasibility study for the community to consider relative
to annexation.

Incorporation into St. George City is always another option to consider. Since the annexation of
the Ledges area into the City, it would be possible for Diamond Valley to annex to St. George
City and still leave the Winchester Hills area out of the city. Dammeron Valley to the north has
also discussed the possibility of incorporation. One of the current reasons for that consideration
is that if either community, or both of them, were to incorporate, St. George City has indicated
they would be favorable to extending the current sewer line to serve either or both of these
communities. In order for any significant growth to occur in either valley, either a sewer line
would need to be extended to serve the community, or a self contained package plant would have
to be constructed by each individual area. An outfall line may be less expensive than a self
contained plant.

The county would support such a decision by either of these communities. The decision is a
local decision to be made by the residents of each area. It is not a county decision and the county
will continue to support each area as an unincorporated part of the county.




                                               150
             WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY SURVEY ANALYSIS
                                 FOR
                   THE COMMUNITY OF DIAMOND VALLEY
                               2010-2011

On August 31, 2010, staff members of the County Planning Department met with citizens of the
community of Diamond Valley at the Diamond Valley Water Company Building. The Diamond
Valley Land Use Map was reviewed with the individuals present.

Because of the small number of citizens that attended the meeting, a statistical analysis of the
results of the questionnaires filled out at the meeting and received since the meeting would not
be of significant value. However, following is a summary of the questions and comments that
have been responded to by residents of Diamond Valley.

The length of time that the comments of the community members had lived in the community
averaged about eight years. The family size was slightly higher than the county average at about
4 years.

All of the respondents were home owners as it can be expected that most of the home owners in
Diamond Valley are owners of the homes that they live in.

There is a small amount of agricultural land in the valley. This includes land that was formerly
devoted to a sod farm, and which has since been converted to growing alfalfa.

A large number of reasons were given for living in Diamond Valley. These included such things
as living close to the mountains, National forest, and the National Park and State Parks. Other
reasons include having opens pace, the opportunity to have livestock animals and poultry, a quiet
community, recreational opportunities, a safe environment, ability to watch wildlife, a dark night
sky, and clean air. It is easy to see why residents like living here in this community.

The character of the community should be preserved. Some methods for doing so include having
proper zoning ordinances in place, not extending water or sewer lines into new undeveloped
areas, or into areas where development would not be appropriate. All existing farm land should
be preserved and protected for as long as the owners choose to continue with agricultural
pursuits.

The development of walking / bicycle trails and routes should be identified and developed, in
connection with the BLM and the Forest Service where appropriate.

There is concern about the use of off-road vehicles on the roads of the community. Not too
much concern about speeding on public streets, some need for continued road maintenance, high
concern about unlawful / unsafe use of OHV riders. Proliferation of OHV routes through and
around the community is a high concern.



                                               151
There is presently very little commercial business in Diamond Valley, outside of some home
occupations that are licensed by the county. More commercial or industrial development may be
good for the county, but not recommended for location in the Diamond Valley community area.

Public services received generally high to good ratings with areas such as law enforcement. Cell
phone services, and adequate notification of residents of meetings, etc., are areas that are in need
of improvement.

Diamond Valley has a very well developed recreation park in the community. Further recreation
development would be desirable. Other facilities that have been recommended for consideration
include such things as an expanded trail system connected to other areas, water trails
development where appropriate in the county, and a community equestrian center that could keep
and maintain horses.

The best way to notify residents of meetings and activities affecting the community could be
done by posting notices with large print at post office box locations, and by creating an E-mail
list of residents who could be contacted relative to upcoming meetings, etc.

Many citizens participated in the Vision Dixie project which recommends that the county follow
through with Vision Dixie principles in preparing plans for the various areas in the county.

Other comments that were made include:

   •   Avoid any roadways through the Red Cliffs Desert Reserve, which has now been placed
       in a National Conservation Area by action of Congress.
   •   Safeguard the "Golden Goose" that is Diamond Valley, the incredible scenery, clean air,
       diverse recreational opportunities, and abundant open space and wildlife.
   •   Drainage problems still need to be resolved. A time line and commitment need to be
       agreed upon with the community to finish the flood control project.
   •   Some approved culverts still need to be installed




                                                152
                        EAST ENTERPRISE AREA GENERAL PLAN
                                     2010 - 2011

Introduction:

East Enterprise is an unincorporated part of Washington County. Residents and others should
take time to review Section I of the County General Plan which discusses planning in general,
the basis for planning, and the purpose of planning. Many of the things mentioned in the
beginning of Section VII of the County General Plan are also relevant to the residents of this part
of the county. The General Plan provides guidelines for the future for this particular part of the
county in addition to those things that are applied county wide in the other sections of the
General Plan.

The East Enterprise area came about over a number of years. There have been three subdivision
developments recorded in this area. These were Enterprise Ranchos which was recorded June
20, 1962, the Phillips Ranch Phase 2 recorded in June of 1986, and a one lot subdivision labeled
the KM subdivision recorded on October 24, 2006.

The Enterprise Ranchos subdivision was platted and recorded a number of years prior to the
county adopting its first subdivision ordinance. It contains 98 lots. The Phillips Ranch Phase 2
subdivision contains only 7 large lots, and the KM subdivision contained only 1 lot. These
subdivisions, except for the one lot subdivision, were recorded as "dry" subdivisions without any
provision for providing water for the subdivided lots.

Over the years, other parcels of land have been sold by metes and bounds without ever having
been subdivided. There was also a court ordered sale of the balance of the Gilliam property to
settle the estate of B.B. Gilliam after his death. B.B. Gilliam was the original developer of the
Enterprise Ranchos subdivision. Most of the various lot sales that have taken place for many
years have been zoned by the county zoning ordinance and zoning map to recognize these
scattered lot sales as "legal non-conforming" lots in order to allow the owners of the lots to be
able to obtain building permits for these scattered parcels.

Geography and Topography:

The East Enterprise area of the county is largely a relatively flat land area lying adjacent to the
City of Enterprise on the west, the Iron County line on the north, and the Dixie National Forest
boundary on the east and south. The National Forest land tends to be mountainous while the
valley is composed of farm land and is generally flat.

There is one major highway that runs through the area. It is State Highway 18 that runs between
Enterprise City and the Iron County line. This highway also connects the City of Enterprise with
the City of St. George which is located 43 miles to the south of Enterprise. The East Enterprise
area is also 50 miles from Cedar City to the east in Iron County via State Highway 56 which is
located north of the Iron County line and connects Cedar City with settlements to the west in
Lincoln County, Nevada.
                                                 153
The climate in the Enterprise valley consists of four distinct seasons. Summers are generally
mild, and winters can be very cold. The elevation is about 6,000 feet. The entire East Enterprise
area contains approximately 5,500 acres of private land. Much of the land is in an agricultural
use of one kind or another. Most of the northern area is in agricultural production. The central
part includes in residential development and the southern part of the valley is mostly vacant and
in agricultural livestock grazing,

Land Use:

There is one small parcel of land in the central part of the valley, adjacent to State Highway 18,
which is identified as commercial land. It contains a contractor'  s storage yard as opposed to a
general commercial use. There is no other commercial development. There is commercial
business located north of the Iron County line which includes the Crossroads Equipment
Company sales building.

A review of the land use of the valley is tabulated in the following table:

                                      Table I
                                Existing Land Use
            Residential Development                      523 acres
            Agricultural (farming)                      1,208 acres
            Agricultural (Livestock grazing,            3,758 acres
                       and vacant land.)
            Industrial development                        12 acres

                         TOTAL:                         5,502 acres

The above figures may not be totally survey accurate, but they paint a relative picture of the
various types of land use. Considering the private land in the valley, there is still much land
available for various types of land development.

Agricultural Development:

Most of the citizens responding to the planning questionnaire requested that the area remain
much as it is today. Actual development of the valley has been generally very slow over the
years. It should also be identified in this Plan that the East Enterprise area constitutes most of
the irrigated farm land that remains in Washington County that is not currently being transitioned
into residential development.

The amount of agricultural farm land is estimated to contain about 1,208 acres of land.
Sufficient water appears to be available to allow this land to continue to be used as irrigated farm
land. The other major farm area in the county, located in the Washington Field area south of the
City of Washington, is rapidly disappearing as a farm area leaving the Enterprise area as the
major farm area in the county. The pressure to change the land in this valley from farming to
                                                154
residential is not a major concern at this time. The General Plan recommends that the irrigated
farm land in East Enterprise continue to be used as it is today. If this land is not already in a
green belt classification it should be placed therein, and agriculture protection areas should be
created as necessary.

Residential Development:

There are currently almost 60 dwelling units existing in East Enterprise. The average family size
is large compared to the average in Washington County which is currently an average of about
three residents per dwelling,

Using the average family size from the questionnaire, the population of the East Enterprise area
would be about 300 residents. Using the county average, the population would be about 180
residents. When the census figures are collected every ten years by the Federal Government,
they only identify the population in incorporated cities and towns and do not calculate the
population in any of the unincorporated residential areas of the county.

Over the past ten years there have been 18 building permits issued in the East Enterprise area. If
that same number of permits was extended forward for an additional ten years, it would mean the
same number of permits to be issued in the next ten years would be an additional 18 permits.
This would translate, using the questionnaire family size, into about 90 new residents, or using
the county average family size it would translate into about 54 new residents giving the area a
ten year protected population of about 234 to 390 residents.

Based upon a total land area in the valley of about 6,500 acres of land, the density of the
population in East Enterprise is about 110 acres per dwelling unit which is actually very low.
The population density compared to the amount of land for most of the areas of the county that
are unincorporated is low compared to the density of the various cities and towns in the county.

The Vision Dixie Summary:

According to the responses from the questionnaire circulated in the area, some of the residents of
East Enterprise did participate in the Vision Dixie planning project. The outgrowth of the study
and recommendations by the committee charged with reviewing the material collected was a
series of guidelines and policies aimed at guiding future growth in the county. A summary of the
Vision Dixie study, adopted by the county and most of the incorporated cities and towns in the
county is summarized for the residents of East Enterprise as follows:

1.     Plan regionally, implement locally - The General Plan for East Enterprise is being
       prepared for the residents of this area specifically, and is also a part of the County
       General Plan. It deals with aspects of the future of this area and may be amended or
       expanded from time to time as necessary, still dealing with the concerns of this area, and
       not with the county at large.

2.     Maintain air and water quality, and conserve water - Air and water quality is good in East
       Enterprise. The quality of culinary water was given good ratings by those filling out the
                                                155
     questionnaire last year. Water conservation is also evident in the area inasmuch as there
     is not water to waste. Irrigation of crop land depends upon wells to provide water for
     irrigation. With a number of drought years, the water table has declined. This year, with
     a high amount of water being absorbed into the water table, it may reverse the ground
     water supply here as it has done in other areas of the State during one of the highest water
     years on recent record.

3.   Guard our signature landscapes - The view shed in East Enterprise is primarily toward the
     east and south on the Dixie National Forest. This forest land is primarily open space and
     is not proposed for any other type of development. There is no action on the part of the
     county, or the residents of this area of the county, to request the release of any forest land
     for urban development. It should be protected from development in order to guard the
     view shed.

4.   Provide rich, connected natural recreation areas and open space - There are not a lot of
     recreation facilities provided in East Enterprise. There have been some suggestions made
     relative to the creation of a recreation center, a community park, and similar facilities for
     the use of residents in the area. However, with the amount of open space on the National
     Forest that are so close by the residents, there is not a lot of support for additional
     recreation facilities within the area.

5.   Build a balanced transportation system - This item is best considered in the urban areas
     of the County. The only public transportation system in the county currently exists in a
     portion of St. George City. Cost will keep this system from spreading county-wide.
     There may sometime be a transportation system between the lower St. George valley and
     the City of Enterprise. Should this happen, East Enterprise will have access to such a
     system. It is not proposed in the near future.

6.   Get centered by focusing on growth in walkdable - mixed use centers - This area has not
     developed over the years as a walkable community. It was not envisioned as a walkable
     community when the original subdivision activity took place. It is not likely to become a
     walkable community in the future unless a planned development of some kind is
     proposed which would, within itself, provide a walkable situation for the residents that
     lived there. It is difficult in existing development to retrofit them into this principle of
     the Vision Dixie Plan. It should be the goal of the county to require that all newly
     planned projects consider the walkabilty of their proposed development against this
     principle of the Vision Dixie Plan

7.   Direct growth inward - Over time it may be possible to do an amount of infill between
     current and proposed development. This would be a step toward meeting the concept of
     the Vision Dixie Plan. It could be accomplished by future development. One of the
     General Plan recommendations is to provide protection to the existing farming areas in
     order to protect farming as long as possible.

8.   Provide a broad range of housing types - In an area where a sewer system is not available
     for use in development, it is difficult to approve any development that cannot use septic
                                              156
       tanks as a means of waste disposal. This principle has application in areas where a sewer
       system is available to the residents. Only single family homes are likely to take place in
       areas where septic tanks are in use. Septic tanks do not support any significant amount of
       high density development.

9.     Reserve areas for industry - There have been some suggestions relative to commercial
       and industrial development in the area. Such uses would, of necessity, be located
       adjacent to State Highway 18. With the State Highway system extending eastward to
       Cedar City and the Interstate Freeway system, this could be accomplished in this part of
       the county. The General Plan does not attempt to identify any specific area for industrial
       development other than to state that it must be in relation to the State Highway system
       rather than anywhere else in the valley.

10.    Public land conversion - No land in East Enterprise is needed for conversion from public
       to private land ownership. This policy of the Vision Dixie Plan would have no need for
       application in this part of the county.

Commercial Development:

Commercial development is non-existent in this area of the county. The General Plan
recommends that commercial development not be allowed to take place as strip commercial
development along the State Highway. Strip development would not benefit the residents of the
area and would not be likely to bring significant traffic from the highway to use the services
offered. That is not to say that a commercial center somewhere in the valley would not be useful
to the residents. This is the reason that the Vision Dixie Plan suggests walkable communities
where commercial business could be located within three-fourths of a mile from all residents.
Such a facility as part of a planned development could, in the future, provide useful commercial
business for the benefit of the residents. Keep in mind that commercial development does not
usually take place until an economic study indicates that a developer of a commercial business
has an opportunity to receive a return on the investment. That may yet be some time away in this
area of the county.

Industrial development:

Industrial development has already been discussed in as a part of the Vision Dixie Plan review
discussed above. While industry taking place in this area could be viable based on the major
highway access available between here and I-15 in Cedar City, or using the railroad at Cedar
City or Modena. The General Plan does not suggest any specific location, only that it be in
proximity to the highway system through the area, and not a part of the agricultural farming area
unless it is an agricultural industry.

Public Services:

A section of the General Plan deals with public services as they relate county-wide is found at
the beginning of this section, Section VII, of the County General Plan. Some comments are
stated in this part of the Plan as they relate specifically to the area of East Enterprise.
                                               157
Electricity:

East Enterprise is provided with electrical power by the Rocky Mountain Power Company. With
already completed and currently proposed upgrades to their system, the power company feels
that they can adequately provide power to most of the unincorporated areas of the county well
into the future. The General Plan strongly recommends that in choosing a right-of-way for the
new line proposed between Sigurd and Red Butte follow existing power line routes, and that it
not pass through the private area in East Enterprise, and that it does not impact the National
Forest view shed to the east of the area.

Natural Gas:

Technically, natural gas service is available to East Enterprise. There is a stub line that comes
from the main transmission line into the City of Enterprise. The problem comes from being able
to tap that line with a pressure reducing station, and the cost of extending natural gas service
throughout the area for use by residents. The cost of doing this is currently prohibitive. The
General Plan would recommend that the gas company work with the local area to make natural
gas fuel available to this area of the county at an economical cost.

Water:

There is no culinary water system serving this area in Washington County. All of the homes in
East Enterprise are served by private wells, or in some cases by wells shared between home
owners. To obtain a well permit a person must obtain a water right, usually from an irrigation
source, convert it to a culinary right, and drill a well. There are some water rights available from
land that has been farmed but which is no longer in agricultural production for one reason or
another. The lack of an area wide water system is probably the single largest factor in limiting
residential growth in the area than any other single reason.

Sewage Disposal:

This public service has been previously discussed in this Plan in relation to residential
development and the growth and development of the area. Presently residents are served by
septic tanks as a means of liquid disposal.

One improvement that could be made to septic tanks would be to have the tanks inspected on an
annual basis to determine their continued ability to provide the service for which they were
installed. If they were inspected regularly and pumped as often as necessary for good
maintenance, they should continue to serve the needs of the area will into the future. An
inspection and maintenance system could alleviate this potential concern. The General Plan
would recommend that a maintenance system in the area be considered for the area at some time
in the future. The current number of dwellings is not sufficient to make this a viable option.



                                                158
Roads:

There is a combination of road designations in East Enterprise. The major highway running
through the area is State Highway 18. It is maintained by the Utah Department of
Transportation. There are two recorded subdivisions in the area having dedicated county roads.
However, many of these roads have never been constructed and are a right-of-way only. There
are many other roads in the area that have never been dedicated.

The policy of the county for many years has been to maintain county roads in the same condition
and degree of improvement that they were in at the time they were dedicated. If residents of an
area desire improvements to the roads in their area, the county will create a special improvement
district to bring the roads to the current county standard. Improvement costs can be spread out
over a period of time, usually about ten years. After the improvement, the county will maintain
the roads in the improved condition. Undedicated roads are not maintained by the county. The
county currently maintains the Bench Road along with one or two other roads that have been
determined as county roads by right of use over a long period of time.

Fire Protection:

East Enterprise is currently served by the North Central Fire District which was organized to
provide fire protection services to this part of the county. It is a volunteer fire department and a
number of residents of the area belong to this fire department, but because the department has no
fire fighting equipment, they participate with the Enterprise department as volunteers. At this
time there is only one fire hydrant in East Enterprise. A plan is in place to provide additional
hydrants. The Fire District contracts with the City of Enterprise to provide fire fighting
equipment, and to respond to fires in the East Enterprise area.

The volunteers in this area also train and participate with the Enterprise City department. Each
of these systems participates with the county fire chief's association for training, and they
cooperate together for the good of the residents of the Enterprise valley.

Solid Waste:

The City of Enterprise and the unincorporated area of East Enterprise participate in the
Washington County Solid Waste District. Pickup of waste in this area is collected in the same
manner as it is in various communities throughout the county. Individual collection cans are
available to the residents and waste is regularly collected by the District.

Building Inspection:

Building Inspection for dwelling units and other types of building construction is provided by the
county building department. The cost of building permits is established to defray the cost of
inspection during the period of construction. Building permit fees in the unincorporated areas of
the county are significantly less than found in most of the incorporated cities and towns in the
county.

                                                159
Public Safety:

Police protection in the area is provided by the Washington County Sheriff'      s office. This service
will continue as long as the area continues as an unincorporated part of Washington County.
Some communities desiring greater protection have contracted with the county to increase the
amount of sheriff' s visibility in their area through a specific contract calling for more protection
in exchange for additional funds being raised in the area.

Communication:

Most of Washington County is served by the CenturyLink communication company. In addition
to CenturyLink services, there are a number of private cellular companies providing service
within the county. Citizen response to the planning questionnaire resulted in a mixed response to
the question of cellular services. Services appear to be generally satisfactory, but companies
should continue to upgrade and improve services to the residents. Certain cellular companies
appear to be better able to provide their customers with service, and there may still be certain
parts of the area where service is limited.

Flood Control:

There are two areas of the valley where flooding can be a problem. The wash coming out of
Holt Canyon can create problems under certain conditions. The county recently constructed a
new bridge over Bench Road because the prior bridge was washed out. The General Plan
recommends that the county work with the forest service in order to keep the Hold Canyon wash
which originates on National Forest land, in order to keep this wash clear of trees and other
debris as the wash flows through this area.

Another wash is called the Cottonwood Wash and also originates on Forest Service land and runs
through the western part of East Enterprise and empties into Shoal Creek near the northern end
of the valley. This was could have some of the same problems as are associated with the Holt
Canyon wash and the General Plan recommends that the county work with the forest service to
maintain the upper reaches of this wash as well.

Incorporation or annexation:

One final issue related to public services is the question of incorporation. Under Utah State Law,
a petition for incorporation must originate from within the community that desires to pursue this
alternative. Whether or not this is an alternative that should be considered in this area is the
decision of the residents living in this area. The county does not promote incorporation, or
annexation.

The county feels that government that is closest to the people is the best form of government. It
will support any decision that the residents of any unincorporated area of the county decide to do
or not to do.


                                                  160
In each area of the county where planning meetings have been held with the residents, it has been
expressed that the residents would like to keep things just as they are. Physically, most of the
areas have changed very little over a long period of time. However the residents of these areas
continue to grow older, and in most cases, the replacement by new, younger families does not
take place. Therefore, to keep things just as they are is something that is not possible to happen.

The question is not whether things change, but rather, "Will we as citizens be prepared to give
direction and input to change when it happens, or will we sit back and wait until something
happens, and then wish what we had been able to do something about the change after it has
taken place." To be aware of what is happening, and to give citizen input to projected change
before it takes place is the opportunity for the residents of this community as a result of the
General Plan study that is contained herein.



            WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY STATISSTICAL SURVEY
                                  FOR
                      THE AREA OF EAST ENTERPRISE
                               2010 - 2011

1.     Residency status:

       a.      How long have you lived in this area?        37 year average
       b.      Number in family                              5 average
       c.      Home owner                                  100 %
       d.      Land owner                                  100 %      186 acres average

2.     Please mark the characteristics that you value the most or that help you choose to live or
       own property in this area:

       a.      Born or raised in the area                            80 %
       b.      Close to family, friends, or neighbors               100 %
       c.      Close to mountains                                    80 %
       d.      Like the open space                                  100 %
       e.      The opportunity to keep horses, animals, etc.         80 %
       f.      Quiet community                                       80 %
       g.      Recreation opportunities                              60 %
       h.      Safe environment                                     100 %
       i.      Small town atmosphere                                100 %
       j.      Other:

3.     Should the rural atmosphere be preserved?
       a.     Yes 100 %                    No
       b.     How? Control type of growth, good zoning regulations, don'
                                                                       t sell your
              property

                                               161
4.   Should existing farm land be preserved?
     a.     How should it be done? Create buffer zones around farms, let owner
            decide whether or not to keep it agricultural,

5.   Would you favor developing a system of walking/bicycle tails throughout the area?
           Yes - 40 %            No - 60 %

6.   Please mark on a scale 1 - 5 your concerns on each of the following: Traffic, safety,
     street and road conditions, unsafe ORV use, street dedication
     No problem = 0, most concerned = 5, least concerned = 1

     a.     Off-highway vehicles on streets - 0 = 40 %, 5 = 20 %, 3 = 60 %
     b.     Speed / traffic control - 5 = 40 %, 3 = 20 %, 2 = 20 %, 1 = 20 %
     c.     Road conditions - 5 = 60 %, 3 = 20 %, 2 = 20 %
     d      Unsafe ORV use - 5 = 40 %, 3 = 20 %, 1 = 40 %
     e.     Street dedication - 3 = 40 %, 1 = 20 %
     f.     Other: Consolidate planned roads with adjacent city roads or planned
            roads.

7.   List commercial business, or industrial/manufacturing businesses, if any, that you think
     are needed or desirable to serve the residents and visitors to this area?

     a.     Commercial is not needed
     b.     Light agricultural industry
     c.     Non-polluting industry
     d.     Light manufacturing - non-polluting

8.   Where should business or industries identified above be located?

     a.     Existing residents should give input
     b.     East of town

9.   Please rate on a scale of 1 to 5 your perception or experience with the following   local
     services as they relate to the area.
     Excellent = 5, Poor = 1, No experience = 0

     a.     Ambulance/emergency medical - 5 = 60 %, 4 = 40 %
     b.     Drinking water service and quality - 5 = 60 %, 4 = 20 %, 3 = 20 %
     c.     Electrical power service - 5 = 60 %, 4 = 40 %
     d.     Fire protection - 5 = 60 %, 4 = 40 %
     e.     Garbage collection - 4 = 100 %
     f.     Law enforcement - 4 = 60 %, 3 = 40 %
     g.     Postal service - 5 = 60 %, 4 = 40 %
     h.     School transportation - 5 = 60 %, 4 = 20 %, 1 = 20 %
     i.     Telephone service - 4 = 80 %, 3 = 20 %
     j.     Cell phone service - 4 = 40 %, 3 = 40 %, 2 = 20 %
                                             162
      k.     Other -

10.   Should the area consider providing recreation facilities/opportunities for    residents of
      this area?

      Yes - 40 %             No - 60 %

11.   If the answer to #10 was yes. List up to three recreation facilities that you think are
      desirable.

      a.     Community center
      b.     Recreation center
      c.     Pool
      d.     Park

12.   How can you best be informed about meetings, times, agendas, events, issues, etc.

      a.     Word of mouth                             40%
      b.     Notices at the fire station               20 %
      c.     Notices at the store, if existing         100 %
      d.     Notices at the post office                60 %
      e.     Posting on the internet                   40 %
      f.     Other - Library, church

13.   Did you participate in the recent Vision Dixie planning program? Yes - 60%             No -
      40 %

14.   If you did participate, what are two or three things did you find valuable about the
      study, or about things that the area should do to comply with the study?

      a.     Preserve open space
      b.     Keep the rural atmosphere and feel
      c.     Meshing of ideas, differences of persons and still good ideas

15.   Any final comments relative to concerns that you would like to have considered in the
      General Plan study?

      a.     Impact on adjacent community
      b.     Keep the Federal Government out
      c.     Keep the rural feeling




                                                 163
              WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY SURVEY ANALYSIS
                                  FOR
                      THE AREA OF EAST ENTERPRISE
                               2010 - 2011

On August 24, 2010, staff members of the county planning department met with citizens of the
area of East Enterprise at the county library in Enterprise City. The group was small, but those
present entered into a discussion of the East Enterprise area of Washington County.
Questionnaires were completed by those in attendance with others able to submit the same the
same information over the internet or to fill out the form and submit it to the county planning
office.

Following is a summary of the questions and the comments that were responded to by those
present.

There were very few questionnaires filled out at the meeting, and even less that were
subsequently submitted to the county. The statistical review was small enough that the validity
of the information contained therein may be somewhat questionable. Nevertheless, following is
a review of the information collected.

The length of time that residents have lived in the area was rather long with an average of
37 years. This is greater than most of the unincorporated communities in the county.

The average family size indicated was five. This is more than double the average county family
size which is very close to three. It is more likely that the overall family size in this area, if all
residents responded, would be closer to the county average.

There are many reasons for living in this area of the county. The major reasons given by the
residents of this area were being close to family or friends, liking the open space, a safe
environment, and a small town atmosphere. These are all valid reasons for living here and are
similar to most of the unincorporated communities in the county.

As to how to maintain the characteristics that most people enjoy, answers include: controlling
growth, asking residents to "not sell" their property, and developing and enforcing good zoning
regulations.

The same response relative to farm land included the following as to how to protect the farm
land: Create buffer zones around the farms, let owners decide whether or not to keep it
agricultural. This last comment would be contradictory with the ways to protect the rural
atmosphere of the area. If owners are being encouraged not to sell their land, on the other hand,
how do you give farmers the choice to farm or not. These are some of the decisions that need to
be made in the area.



                                                  164
Some of the respondents to the questionnaire felt that it would be nice to have walking and
bicycle trails in the area while the majority of those filling out questionnaires felt that these trails
are not necessary. The decision should be left up to the residents.

In the area of traffic safety, OHV use, road conditions, etc., none of these situations raised to the
height of a major concern in the area. Some of the conditions had some concern, but none were
raised to the area of a major concern. One additional concern was raised by a respondent,
namely that of making sure that plans for new streets be coordinated with the street plan of the
City of Enterprise. This is a good recommendation.

There does not seem to be the same opposition to commercial or industrial development in east
Enterprise that has occurred in other unincorporated communities in the county. To have no
commercial was mentioned. On the other hand, several comments were made relative to having
commercial or industrial development in the area as long as it is of a non-polluting variety. A
valid comment was that local residents should give input as to where such development should
take place, and to have their comments strongly considered.

Questionnaire respondents were asked to respond to their satisfaction, or lack thereof, with a
number of public services including such things as ambulance service, drinking water, electrical
power, fire protection, garbage collection, law enforcement, postal service, school transportation,
telephone and cellular service. The only public service that received approval from everyone
was Garbage collection. Telephone service was also rated quite high. Most of the public
services rated satisfactory responses. Cell phone service was about as low as any service was
rated, but even this service was given a reasonable rating depending on your phone company and
where you lived.

The question related to providing recreation facilities received a no response higher than a yes
response. There were several facilities mentioned that would be desirable to many residents.
These facilities included a community recreation center, a pool, and a park were all facilities that
were suggested.

How to let residents know of upcoming events or county information showed that posting at the
store (in Enterprise) would be the best way of letting people know of things that they needed to
know about. Posting notices at the post office was the next highest method of informing people
suggested.

East Enterprise is the only unincorporated area where the majority of those filling in the
questionnaire actually attended the Vision Dixie planning program. This was an encouraging
sign. Several things were mentioned as positive things coming from the study which included
preserving open space, keeping a rural feel to the area, and sharing ideas with people with
different thoughts and backgrounds.

Final comments from the questionnaire included keeping the Federal Government out of the
area, keep a rural feeling, and determine the impact of east Enterprise on the City of Enterprise
which is adjacent.

                                                  165
                     THE GUNLOCK COMMUNITY GENERAL PLAN
                                  2010 - 2011

Introduction:

Gunlock is an unincorporated part of Washington County. Residents and others should take time
to review Section I of the County General Plan which discusses planning in general, the basis for
planning, and the purpose of planning. Many of the things mentioned in the beginning of
Section VII are also relevant to residents of this part of the county. The General Plan provides
guidelines for the future for this particular part of the county in addition to those things that are
applied county wide in the other sections of the General Plan.

The Gunlock community is among the older communities in Washington County. In order to
understand the background and history of this community, the General Plan quotes a paragraph
or two from the History of Washington County put together in 1996 by Douglas D. Alder and
Karl Brooks as follows:

"Some settlements were outgrowths of the initial ones. The land was limited at Santa Clara and
the young, newly arrived settlers were capable of ranging widely in search of forage and timber.
Jacob Hamblin' s brother William, nicknamed "Gunlock", soon found a location not unlike Santa
Clara a few miles up river, directly on the Old Spanish '
                                                        Trail. There in a narrow valley were
small openings beside the Santa Clara Creek where crops could be planted. William Hamblin
moved his family there, and his relatives Dudley and Jeremiah Leavitt and Isaac Riddle joined
him.

Being up river was a comfortable feeling, but the settlers would soon find themselves vulnerable
to floods. Another threat was Indians who stole their cattle. The town, called Gunlock, after its
colorful founder, is an example of the individual enterprise of young families seeking land
wherever they could stake their homes rather than being in a planned Mormon colony. The
Leavitt and Riddle families moved there from Santa Clara, and the Holt and Hunt families later
migrated from Hebron."

Unlike some other of the early communities that were settled and later were abandoned and
become "Ghost Towns", Gunlock has remained a viable community since its settlement. While
it has not expanded and grown like some of the cities and towns in the lower part of the county,
Gunlock remains an important part of Washington County.

Geography and Topography:

Geographically, Gunlock lies northwest of the cities of Santa Clara and Ivins along the Santa
Clara River. Lying between these cities and Gunlock is the Piute Indian Reservation. Access to
the community is via Old Highway 91 which went westward from Santa Clara, over Utah Hill,
and into Arizona and Nevada. This road, for many years was the connection with Utah and from
points north and east to the Pacific coast and the Los Angeles basin. Turning north from
Highway 91 while still within the boundary of the Indian reservation, it is a short distance to the

                                                166
community of Gunlock. Going north from and east from Gunlock, the county road connects
with Highway 18 between St. George City and Enterprise City at the community of Veyo.

Gunlock is located at an elevation of about 3,700 feet, or about 1,000 -1,100 feet above the City
of St. George. Elevation wise Gunlock lies about mid way between the Mojave Desert and the
Colorado Plateau.

The Gunlock bench slopes from the ridge along the west side of the community to the Santa
Clara River which generally bisects the valley from north to south. The land form then rises to
the base of the eastern hills above which lies the upper and lower Sand Cove Reservoirs. At one
time a significant amount of electrical power was generated from the fall of water from the top of
the bluff to the valley floor.

The entire community of Gunlock is generally identified as including about 6.992.31     acres of
land which includes the farming area to the north of the community. The land south of the
community to the Gunlock Reservoir may also be considered a part of Gunlock.

                                          Table I.
                        Land Ownership/Management in Gunlock
            Bureau of Land Management              2,888.67 ac  4.51 sq. mi.
            State of Utah - Trust Land + UDWR 1,062.41 ac       1.66 sq. mi.
            State Park                              450.15 ac.  0.70 sq. mi.
            Quasi Public Land - inc. school sites      6.89 ac. 0.01 sq. mi.
            Private Land                           2,584.19 ac. 4.04 sq. mi.

                                        Total:         6,992.31 ac.   10.92 sq. mi.
                              .

Land Use:

The land at the northern end of the community is largely given to farming. It was settled about
the same time as the community itself by the Holt family from the Hebron area. The land
remained in the Holt/McGregor family until more recent years when it was obtained by the
Smith family who maintains and farms the land now.

There is currently no land in the valley identified as commercial land, although at one time there
was a store / post office that occupied a building on the east side of the highway through town
about mid way from the north to the south end of the valley. That same land also contained a
mobile home park which has more recently has been purchased by the Gunlock community for a
park site.

Across the river toward the reservoir is an industrial operation that produces various rock
products. This gravel operation provides significant safety to the Gunlock area by dredging the
Santa Clara River between the town site and the reservoir to help keep flood water from backing
up into the community during times of flood.
                                                 167
Of the land in the area under control of the State, there is a block of State Institutional Trust land
lying west of the Gunlock Reservoir, and another block of State land lying at the northern end of
the valley. Land to the north-west and to the east of Gunlock is under the jurisdiction of the
Bureau of Land Management. The actual Reservoir site is managed by the Utah State
Department of Parks and Recreation. This Reservoir receives significant visitor use during the
warm months of the year for water sports and for fishing opportunities.

Much of the private land lying west and north of the Gunlock Townsite is open space land and is
devoted primarily to livestock grazing. Southeast of Gunlock is a large tract of BLM land that
has officially been designated as the Red Mountain Wilderness area by act of Congress in the
spring of 2009. It encompasses much of the land lying north of the City of Ivins and south of the
community of Dammeron Valley. It is bordered essentially by State Highway 18 and Snow
Canyon State Park on the east, and runs westward almost to Gunlock.

A review of the land use of the valley is tabulated in the following table:

                                      Table II.
                                 Existing Land Use
         Residential Development                           14.26 ac.
         Agriculture (farming)                            1,313,77 ac.
         Agriculture (Livestock grazing                    955.97 ac.
         including vacant land)
         Industrial development (minerals)                  25.11 ac.
         Public / Quasi Public                               6.89 ac.
         Wilderness Designation                             45.73 ac.

                        Total:                            2,361.73 ac.

The above figures may not be totally survey accurate, but they paint a relative picture of the
various types of land use. Considering the private land in the valley alone, some areas (955.97
ac.) of the private land is undeveloped. There is still much land available for various types of
land-use development.

Gunlock is a small island of private land surrounded by public land. While there is still much
private land available for development, the resources to do so, water, waste water, etc., make any
extensive growth in the Gunlock area very unlikely. Most of the citizens responding the planning
questionnaire requested that the community be allowed to remain much as it is today. It remains
today not unlike it did in the late 1800'
                                        s and if, for no other reason than the two things indicated
above, no significant changes in the current size of the community are projected by the General
Plan.

It should be noted as an item of interest, that in 1888 a school was formed in Gunlock with 27
students. 18 of the students belonged to the Dudley Leavitt family. When Dudley Leavitt


                                                 168
moved, 18 of the students also moved, and the school closed. The General Plan does not project
the construction of a new school in Gunlock any time soon.

Agricultural Development:

This section has been discussed in the previous section dealing with open space. The amount of
cultivated agriculture, 1,313.77 acres, is limited due to the availability of irrigation water, and the
limitation of cultivatable land. The climate and growing season are conducive to agricultural
pursuits. The nature of the valley significantly limits any extensive agricultural development
beyond the current land use. Most of the agricultural land belongs to one operator. It will likely
remain agricultural as long as the owner wants to continue farming the land, but it could change
at some future date.

Much of the private land does lend itself to livestock production and grazing. The amount of
livestock that can be maintained is also limited however, based upon the amount of feed that the
land will produce in any given season.

Residential Development and Population:

There are currently some 54 dwellings according to the land use map of Gunlock. The average
family size, based upon the questionnaire, is quite large compared to the county average. With a
county average of 2.8 to 3.2 residents per dwelling, this would project an average population in
Gunlock of between about 150 to 170 residents.

Over the past ten years there have been six building permits issued for the Gunlock area. If this
same pattern continues for the next ten years, the community could expect another six permits to
be issued in Gunlock. This would provide another 18 residents for a total of 170 to 190 residents
in the next ten year period.

There was one new subdivision proposed in recent years for Gunlock, containing 9 lots.
Because of the lack of topsoil over the bedrock in this subdivision, a single septic system was
proposed at the bottom of the hill where it was located. It was approved with the use of this
collection system. However, with the decline nation-wide in the economy, development has not
taken place. If this project is renewed at some point in the future, it would add 9 building lots in
Gunlock. If the water supply is able to supply that many more water connections, that number of
lots and new dwellings could easily amount to the total expected growth in population during the
next ten years, making the projected population in the range of 200 - 220 residents.

Population Density:

The projection of existing population and projected population are discussed in the previous
section dealing with population and population growth. However the number of existing and
projected new growth over the next ten years shows one of the lowest population densities in the
county. The 2,550.55 acres of private land, divided by the projected population provides the
density in terms of the number of acres per resident. In the case of Gunlock, that amounts to
about 11.6 acres per dwelling unit. By any standard, that is very low.
                                                 169
Vision Dixie Summary:

According to the responses from the questionnaire circulated in the community, none of the
residents participated in the Vision Dixie Study that was undertaken by the county just a few
years ago. The outgrowth of the study and recommendations by the committee charged with
reviewing the material collected was a series of guidelines and policies aimed at guiding future
growth in the county. One of the lowest areas of projected future growth would have to be the
Gunlock area. Nonetheless the summary of the Vision
Dixie Study, adopted by the county and most of the incorporated cities and towns in the county is
summarized for the residents of Gunlock as follows:

1.     Plan regionally, implement locally. The General Plan for Gunlock is a locally prepared
       plan for this area only, and is a part of the overall county General Plan. It deals with
       aspects of the future of Gunlock and may be amended from time to time as necessary,
       still dealing with the concerns of the Gunlock area and not the county at large.

2.     Maintain air and water quality, and conserve water. Air and water quality is very good
       in Gunlock. The quality of culinary water in Gunlock was rated very high by those
       completing the planning questionnaire. Water conservation is also evident in the
       community; inasmuch is there is not a lot of extra water to waste.

3.     Guard our signature landscapes - All of the surrounding hillsides are maintained in an
       open space category. To the southeast of town is a congressionally designated wilderness
       area. The character of this area is not likely to change.

4.     Provide rich, connected natural recreation areas and open space - There are not a lot of
       community recreation facilities provided in Gunlock. The rodeo grounds located at the
       south end of the community provides some recreation opportunity. One respondent
       suggested that a community park would be nice to see developed. Otherwise, residents
       did not see a need for local recreation facilities. The Gunlock Reservoir is considered
       part of the Gunlock area and is a major recreation area in the summer months. There is a
       major wilderness area close by, and most of the land surrounding Gunlock is open space
       which offers a good deal of recreation opportunity in nearly all directions.

5.     Build a balanced transportation system - Most of time, Gunlock can be accessed from
       either of two directions. That would be south to Old Highway 91 at the Indian
       Reservation, or north and east to Highway 18 in Veyo. In addition, a secondary access is
       available via the sand cove reservoirs connecting to Highway 18 adjacent to the
       community of Dammeron Valley.

       Other types of transportation other than private vehicles are not likely to be found serving
       Gunlock anytime soon. During times of high water on the Santa Clara, none of the
       existing systems will be adequate to serve the community. Residents should simply be

                                               170
       aware that during times of flood, Gunlock is probably going to be cut off from access to
       other areas of Washington County as happened in 2005, and again in 2010.

6.     Get centered by focusing on growth in walkable- mixed use centers - One could consider
       that Gunlock is generally a walkable community insofar as being to walk quite easily
       from one end of the community to the other. Being a mixed-use community is another
       matter. Located on the banks of the Santa Clara River prohibits any type of high density
       development because of the lack of sewage disposal facilities. On site treatment facilities
       are available for use now in Utah. However, if the whole community was connected to an
       on site system, the cost to each resident would still be prohibitive.

7.     Direct growth inward - Gunlock would appear to be doing well in meeting this planning
       recommendation of the Vision Dixie Plan. As mentioned above, Gunlock is basically a
       walkable community. There are not very many areas where subdivision and growth
       could occur outside of the current valley. The Smith property to the north could, at some
       future time, support conversion of the farmland to residential use. This represents about
       the only area where additional development could reasonably take place.

8.     Provide a broad range of housing types - This element is discussed in Section 7 above.
       The use of septic tanks eliminates most proposals any type of use other than single family
       dwellings.

9.     Reserve areas for industry - The only existing industrial development in the valley is an
       operation tied to the existing availability of mineral development. There are no sites that
       would conveniently lend themselves to industrial development because of the
       transportation problem to existing major highways and freeway systems.

10.    Public land conversion - No land in Gunlock is needed for conversion to private
       ownership to provide for community expansion. This policy would not apply in the
       Gunlock area.

Commercial Development:

Commercial development is non-existent in Gunlock except for some possible home
occupations. In some of the other "bedroom communities in the county, home occupations make
up a significant element.

One goal of the Vision Dixie Project is to try to make communities as sustainable as possible.
This means that residents should be able to find work where they live, and that circulation
through the community might better accomplished with walking and bike paths as opposed to
automobiles.

One resident suggested that a service station/convenience store might be useful in Gunlock.
Economic demand drives most decisions to construct commercial facilities. If the Gunlock
Reservoir was much larger than it actually is, it might be able to attract a service
station/convenience market in that area. The General Plan would agree that such a facility
                                               171
somewhere in the Gunlock area would be a benefit to the community. It would be difficult to
suggest where such a facility might locate, or whether there would be any economic benefit to an
owner to provide such a facility in Gunlock. While the General Plan agrees with this suggestion,
but can find no site on which it could be neither located, nor any economic benefit to a proprietor
of such a facility at the present time.

Industrial Development:

Industrial development was discussed earlier as one of the Vision Dixie guidelines. There is
only one industrial development in the Gunlock valley. It is related to mineral development and
provides a benefit to the area by dredging material from the Santa Clara River above the Gunlock
Reservoir from time to time. Other industrial development in the Gunlock area is not projected
at any time in the near future.

Public Services:

A section on public services as they relate county-wide is found at the beginning of this section,
Section VII, of the General Plan. Some comments are re-stated herein as they relate specifically
to the community of Gunlock.

Electricity:

Electric service to Gunlock is provided by the Rocky Mountain Power Company. With upgrades
to their ability to provide power to the westerly side of the county, along with plans to continue
to upgrade their system, communities such as Gunlock should be provided with the needed
electrical services for many years to come.

Natural Gas:

The nearest supply line of natural gas in the westerly part of the county is parallel to Highway
18, and runs from a substation near Central southward to the City of St. George. It is not
expected that a loop through Gunlock will be constructed in the near future. Gunlock will still be
served by propane gas service for those residents that desire to use this form of fuel.

Water:

Water in Gunlock is currently provided by the Gunlock Special Service District. This board is
operated by the residents of the community. It appears to be adequate to serve the current needs
of the community, having received upgrades during the past few years. It is not sufficient to
supply unlimited growth and development, which is not expected to take place.

In the recent planning questionnaire filled out by many residents, the water system received very
high remarks insofar as satisfaction with the service is concerned. It is expected that the water
company will continue to make upgrades and improvements to the system as time and money to
do so permit. The present system should be adequate for the future decade of the Gunlock
General Plan.
                                                172
Sewage Disposal:

This public service has been discussed previously in this plan in relation to residential
development and the growth and development of the area. Presently, homes are served by septic
tank as the means of liquid disposal.

One improvement that could be made to these septic tanks would be to have the tanks inspected
on an annual basis to determine their continued ability to provide the service for which they were
installed. If they were inspected regularly and pumped as often as necessary for good
maintenance, they should continue to serve the needs of the community well into the future.

On-site treatment facilities are now available for use in areas where septic tanks are no longer
considered a viable alternative to a sewage collection system. The cost of such a system in
Gunlock would be prohibitive given the current and projected population. The only concern
raised by the General Plan is in relation to keeping the current system of individual septic tanks
in a healthy condition, considering the proximity of the community to the Gunlock Reservoir and
the Santa Clara River. An inspection and maintenance system could alleviate this potential
concern. The General Plan would recommend that a maintenance system in Gunlock be
considered.

Roads:

Road maintenance in Gunlock is provided by the Washington County Road Department.
Financing for road maintenance comes from the Utah Department of Transportation through a
funding formula that allows different amounts of maintenance money for different types of
roads. There are hundreds of miles of roads in Washington County that the road department is
charged with maintaining. The funding amount changes from year to year and is based upon
payments received by the county from the state as a percentage of the income from the gasoline
tax paid at the gas pump. This tax source, rather than the taxes paid to the county general fund
have been the source of funding for the road department for many years.

More recently, funds were received by the county to upgrade the two bridges serving Gunlock at
the lower end of the community and just north of Gunlock going toward Veyo. This funding was
obtained as a result of the 2005 flood that isolated Gunlock from the rest of the County.

The flood of 2010 caused problems with these recent improvements. At the same time, the road
connecting with Veyo was cut off by the flooding of the washes at the foot of the dugway
leading up to Veyo. There was also flooding at the Old Highway 91 Bridge over the Santa Clara
River in the Indian Reservation.

Continued improvements of the access roads to and from Gunlock connecting it with other parts
of the County are still a concern. However, even with recent improvements, opportunities for
flooding at other locations can still cause Gunlock to become isolated in time of flood. This is
                                               173
one area where the General Plan recommends that the county will still need to continue working
to try to solve this problem. At this time residents should understand the difficulties that a flood
on the Santa Clara River present, and prepare for isolation from the county at large during flood
situations.

One concern expressed by the residents of Gunlock is related to the bicycle groups that travel
through Gunlock on a regular basis. Gunlock only has one road through the town and when
groups tie up the road for a long period of time, it becomes very difficult for residents to do the
things that they need to do. The General Plan makes several recommendations for the county to
consider relative to this problem as follows:

1.     Identify a bicycle lane through Gunlock. This may involve some widening of the
       roadway through the town. A bicycle lane should be marked on the pavement.
2.     A bicycle lane must require bicycles to be in a single line not only through town but all
       the way from Veyo to Old Highway 91. A sign on both ends of Gunlock should identify
       these regulations.
3.     These requirements should be part of any county conditional use permit approval for bike
       groups anywhere on the Gunlock road with penalties assessed for violations.
4.     Whenever bike groups requesting conditional use permits from the county are
       scheduled on the Planning Commission agenda, citizens from Gunlock should be
       notified of the meeting so that they can attend and express their concerns.

It is not likely that the county can exclude all bicycle groups that want to ride through Gunlock
any more that they can eliminate the St. George Marathon that takes place in October on
Highway 18. But the General Plan recommends that consideration be given by the county as to
how to better organize these rides through Gunlock to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
Gunlock residents.

Fire protection:

Fire protection in Gunlock is one area in which the General Plan recommends that considerable
effort be made to upgrade and improve the system. Gunlock is currently a part of the North
West Fire District that includes most of the communities in that part of the County. Currently
Gunlock has one brush truck, housed in a garage next to the community building, and a pumper
which is housed outside and must have the water drained during colder months. Service is
provided both by units elsewhere in the fire district as well as from the Fire Station in Ivins city.
The General makes several recommendations for improvements to the Gunlock fire system.

1.     Develop the necessary manpower to man fire suppression equipment in Gunlock which
       involves creating a volunteer department, firemen being properly trained to respond to
       local fires and to respond to wildland fires that may threaten the community.
2.     Contact other areas, Pine Valley being a good example, to find out how to properly
       organize in Gunlock to create a trained department. Training is available from within the
       North West District, from Ivins City, or cities or towns in the county.
3.     Improve the facilities available by obtaining grant funds, available from several sources
       in the same manner as the community has done to upgrade the water system, and to
                                                 174
       provide a fire station and the equipment necessary to protect those on the volunteer
       department. Grants for an isolated area such s Gunlock should rate high on the approval
       list from any source of funding, of which there are several.
4.     Become an active participant with the North West Fire District, or create a singular fire
       district only in the Gunlock area.
5.     Contract with a neighboring city, Ivins, for response to Gunlock fires to take care of
       some of the needs that the local department might not be able to handle.

Fire protection would appear to be one area in which Gunlock should make efforts to improve
similar to other unincorporated communities. To study the model in Pine Valley would be a
good place to begin.

Public Safety:

Police protection in Gunlock is provided by the Washington County Sheriff'   s office. This
service will continue as long as Gunlock continues as an unincorporated part of Washington
County. Some communities desiring greater protection have contracted with the county to
increase the amount of sheriff's visibility in their community through a specific contract calling
for more sheriffs’ protection in exchange for additional funds being raised by the community.

Solid Waste:

A solid Waste Board made up of one representative from each city or town, along with one
member from the county, oversee the collection of solid waste in the county. This board
contracts with a private company to provide the collection of waste in the county. There is a
central landfill location which is owned by Washington County and managed by the solid waste
company. This site is expected to sufficient for many years to come. The system of
management and oversight is also expected to continue.

Building Inspection:

Building inspection for dwelling units and other types of building construction are provided by
the county building department. The cost of building permits is established to defray the cost of
inspection during periods of building construction. Building permit costs in the unincorporated
communities are significantly less than found in most of the incorporated cities and towns in the
county.

Communication:

Most of Washington County is served by the CenturyLink communication company. In addition
to CenturyLink services there are a number of private cellular companies providing service such
within the county. Citizen response to the planning questionnaire resulted in a mixed reaction to
the question dealing with communication services. From the citizen response, it may be
concluded that communications in Gunlock are generally adequate, with the General Plan
recommending that communication providers continue to upgrade their services to the Gunlock
area.
                                                175
Flood Control:

This subject received significant comment in the section dealing with roads. Therefore, it need
not be repeated at this time. The General Plan recommends that the county continue to improve
road conditions in areas that are subject to flooding in order to provide a better connection from
Gunlock to the balance of the county during times of flooding. The efforts that have been made,
particularly since the 2005 floods in the area, were a large step toward improvements the
challenge of flood protection in Gunlock

Cemetery:

It was brought to the county during the public meeting in Gunlock that the Gunlock Cemetery is
at capacity. The General Plan recommends that the county look at possible alternatives that
might be identified on adjacent public land which could possibly be obtained under a public
purpose lease for cemetery development.

Incorporation:

One final issue related to public services is the question of incorporation. Under Utah State law,
a petition for incorporation must originate from the community wishing to pursue this
alternative. The minimum number of residents required to request incorporation is 100 persons.
Gunlock would qualify with the current population. Whether or not this is an alternative that
should be considered further is a decision of the residents of Gunlock. The county does not
oppose incorporation of a community. The county is not promoting incorporation of the
unincorporated communities in the county, but would lend support in whatever decision a
community might make.

In each area of the county where the planning staff has held a meeting concerning planning in the
unincorporated areas of the county, the one comment that was made at each and every meeting
was the comment, "We like it just like it is." To keep things just like they are is a noble desire,
but each and every resident gets one day older each day and year, which makes "keeping things
the way they are," something that is not possible to have happen.

The question then is not whether things change, but rather, "Will we as citizens of a given area
be prepared to give direction and input to change when it happens, or will we sit back and wait
until something happens in our area and then wish that we had been able to do something about
the change after it has taken place."

To be aware of what is happening, and to give citizen input to projected change, before it
happens is the opportunity of the residents of this community as a result of the General Plan
Study. On the other hand, of all of the unincorporated communities in this county, Gunlock will
probably be involved in less change during the coming decade than any of the other
unincorporated communities in the county. Now, if only we could come up with some way of
keeping each resident just as they are today, without any change in age, health, or other condition
of getting older.
                                               176
          WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY STATISTICAL SURVEY
                                FOR
                    THE COMMUNITY OF GUNLOCK
                             2010 - 2011

1.   Residency Status:

     a.     How long have you lived at this location?     35 years average
     b.     Number in our family? 4 average.
     c.     Home Owner 90 %
     d.     Land owner only 10 %
            1. Approx. number of acres 3 ac. average

2.   Please mark characteristics Tat you value the most or that help you chose to live or own
     property in this area.

     Born or raised in the area 75 %
     Close to family, friends, or neighbors 75%
     Close to mountains, Etc. 37.5 %
     Like the open space. 75 %
     The opportunity to keep horses, animals, etc. 12.5 %
     Quiet community. 87.5 %
     Recreational opportunities. 37.5 %
     Safe environment 50 %
     Small town atmosphere. 100 %

3.   Should the rural atmosphere be preserved? Yes 87.5 %


     If yes, how do you propose to do this?      Doing what we'
                                                              re doing, limited government,
     leave as is, zoning, leave farms alone, leave as is, why

     Should existing farm land be preserved?       Yes - 100 %

     If yes, how do you proposed to do this?       Zoning, leave farmers alone, zoning, don't
     sell, no more move in's, limit growth, limit water taps, don'
                                                                 t build more homes, leave as it
     is now

4.   Would you favor developing a system of walking/bicycle trails throughout the
     community?

     Yes - 12.5 %
     No - 75 %


                                             177
5.    Please rank on a scale of 1-5 your concerns on each of the following: traffic, safety,
      street and road issues. Most concerned = 5, least concerned = 1, No problem = 0.

      a.     Off-highway vehicles on streets - 0 = 44.4 %, 1 = 33.3 %., 5 = 22.2 %
      b.     Speed / traffic control - 0 = 11.1%, 3 = 22.2 %, 4 = 22.2 %., 5 = 44.4 %
      c.     Road Condition - 0 = 22.2 %, 1 = 11.1 %, 3 = 11.1 %, 5 = 11.1 %
      d.     Unsafe ORV use - 0 = 33.3 %, 1 = 33.3 %, 3 - 11.1 %, 5 = 11.1 %
      e.     Street Dedication - 0 = 33.3 %, 1 = 11.1 %, 3 = 11.1 %, 5 = 11.1 %

6.    Desired commercial or industrial business? None - 50% , Service station 50%

7.    Where should business or industry be located? None, or at reservoir

8.    Rate your experience with the following local services as they relate to your area.
      Excellent = 5, Poor = 1, No experience = 0

      a.     Ambulance / medical - 0 = 22.2 %. 1 = 33.3 %, 4 = 11.1 %,
      b.     Water service & quality - 4 = 22.2 %, 5 = 77.7%
      c.     Electrical power service - 0 = 11.1 %, 3 - 22.2%, 4 = 44.4 %, 5 = 33.3 %
      d.     Fire protection - 0 = 11.1 %, 1 - 22.2 %, 3 = 11.1 %, 4 = 22.2 %,
             5 = 11.1 %
      e.     Garbage service - 4 = 33.3 %, 5 = 55.5 %
      f.     Law enforcement - 0 = 11.1%, 1 = 11.1 %, 3 = 44.4 %, 5 = 22.2 %
      g.     Postal service - 1 = 11.1 %, 3 = 33.3 %, 4 = 11.1 %, 5 = 22.2 %
      h.     School transportation - 0 = 44.4 %, 1 = 55.5 %. 5 = 22.1 %
      i.     Telephone service - 0 = 11.1 %, 4 = 22.2 %, 5 = 55.5 %
      j.     Cell phone service - 0 = 11.1 %, 1 = 11.1 %, 3 = 44.4 %, 4 = 11.1 %,
             5 = 11.1 %

9.    Should the community provide recreation facilities for residents of the community?
      Yes 11.1 %, No 77.7 %

10.   If the answer was yes, list up to 3 facilities that were desirable. a park - 11.1 %

11.   How can you best be informed about meetings, times, agendas, events, issues, etc.?
      a.    Word of mouth - 66.6 %
      b.    Mail boxes - 77.7 %
      c.    An E-mail list - 11.1 %
      d.    Posting on interned - 11.1 %
      e.    Other - Mail and deliver to home

12.   Did you participate in the vision Dixie program? Yes - 0, No 100 %




                                               178
             WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY SURVEY ANALYSIS
                                 FOR
                      THE COMMUNITY OF GUNLOCK
                              2010 - 2011

On October, 2010, staff members of the county planning department met with citizens of the
community of Gunlock at the town office. The group was small, but those present entered into a
discussion of the Gunlock community. Questionnaires were completed by those in attendance
with others able to submit the same information over the internet or to fill out the form and
submit them to the county planning office.

Following is a summary of the questions and the comments that were responded to by those
present.

The length of time that residents have lived in the community was rather long with an average of
35 years. This average is much greater than for most of the communities in the county. Some
had lived in Gunlock for their entire lifetime which was much longer than 35 years.

The average size of families in Gunlock was an average of 4.

Many reasons were given for living in Gunlock. These reasons included being born or raised
there, (75%); close to family, friends, or neighbors; close to the mountains; the opportunity to
keep animals; a safe environment; a small town atmosphere.

Most residents felt that the small town environment should be preserved. As to how to do this,
the following comments were given: doing what we'    re doing; a limited government; leave us as
is; zoning; leave farms alone.

To preserve farmland in the area, which everyone who commented wanted to see done, some of
the ways to do this were given including: zoning; leave farmers alone; don'
                                                                          t sell; no more move-
in'
  s; limit growth; give no more water taps; don'
                                               t build any more homes; and leave it as it is.

A few of the respondents were in favor of developing a trail system in the area. The majority
were not in favor of a trail or bicycle system.

A few respondents considered off highway vehicles on the streets to be a problem. Most did not.
However, most had significant concerns relative to traffic control and speed on the main street of
Gunlock. As far as road condition was concerned, there were wide spread responses ranging
from little concern by most residents to a few indicating a major concern.

Consideration could be given to education of OHV users in Gunlock. There is some concern
relative to the safe use of these vehicles by those using them on the streets of Gunlock.

There are few undedicated streets in Gunlock; therefore, there was not much concern relative to
whether or not roads needed to be dedicated.

                                                179
Relative to the question of locating commercial development in Gunlock, 50% of the
respondents felt that there should be no commercial business in the community, and the nearest
they recommended having commercial business was at the reservoir. About the same number
did not want to see significant commercial development take place, but felt that a service station
would be beneficial to the community. In this day and age, a service station usually implies also
having a handi-mart type of commercial business attached to the service station.

The series of questions relative to existing public services received the following responses:

Ambulance service is rated somewhere between fair to good, but not excellent. Water quality
and service was rated very high by nearly all respondents. Water quality and service was the
highest rated of all current public services. The current water company would appear to be doing
a very good job in providing the needed commodity to the residents of Gunlock.

Electrical service was also given a high rating by most respondents to the questionnaire, with
only a few feeling that the service could be improved. Fire protection seemed to be somewhat
evenly spread between good and fair with one poor recommendation and one excellent rating.

Garbage service rated between good to excellent. Law enforcement was also spread out between
poor to excellent. The Postal service generally received good to excellent ratings, as did
telephone service. Receiving lower ratings was cellular service.

The question of providing recreation facilities in Gunlock was very strong for not providing
communities with one respondent suggesting that a park would be nice.

The question on how best to be informed of meetings indicated that posting at the mail boxes
was the preferred method with word of mouth being a close second. Some felt an E-Mail list of
residents would be useful. At least one favored mail delivered to the home. This method would
be the least likely to happen because of the cost involved to send letters to each home in the
county who might be impacted whenever an issue arose relative to any given community.

Some time ago, the county was involved in what was called a Vision Dixie planning effort. The
responses to the questionnaire indicated that none of those responding had participated in the
Vision Dixie project. A summary of the plan will be found elsewhere as a part of the community
General Plan.




                                                180
                                        An addendum
                                             To
                                   The Harmony Valley Area
                                        General Plan
                                         2010 - 2011

                          HARMONY VALLEY GENERAL PLAN

INTRODUCTION

The General Plan for the Harmony Valley is a part of the General Plan of Washington County.
Planning in Washington County began about 1970 and has continued since that time. The most
recent update of the plan was in November of 1995. However, the plan for the Harmony Valley
at that time was very minimal; indicating that there would probably be a transition from
agricultural uses to residential uses over a period of years.

This latest update, adopted in 2011, comes during an economic downturn in the economy during
which growth and development in the county has been significantly reduced. Therefore, the
transition from agricultural to residential development has been very minimal for the past 5 or
more years. The transition may increase again in the future, but with the size of the valley, will
not change the rural character of the area for many years to come.

BASIS FOR PLANNING

The authority for a General Plan comes from enabling legislation passed by the State of Utah and
found in the Utah Code, Article 17, which outlines the methods to be followed and charges the
County Planning Commission with the development of a General Plan.

Many other public agencies also are involved in planning for the areas that they are responsible
for, such as the Bureau of Land Management, The National Forest and the National Park. All of
these agencies are also involved with land in the Harmony Valley area of Washington County.

PURPOSE OF THE PLAN

The purpose of the plan is to serve as a guide for orderly development. It sets the pattern for
growth and change. It expresses the goals as to what the area should look like in the future, and
the policies or guidelines for achieving the goals.

THE GENERAL PLAN AND ACTION

Effectuating the Plan is the responsibility of public and private groups. The Plan alone does not
cause things to happen, nor does it give precise recommendations for the development of various
projects. The Plan provides the road map to follow. Vehicles of implementation such as the
Zoning Ordinance, and the Subdivision Ordinance are needed to carry out the provisions of the
General Plan.

                                               181
BACKGROUND AND HISTORY

Located in the north central part of Washington County, the Harmony Valley is considerably
different that the lower parts of the County. This area of the County has four distinct seasons
each year, has cold and sometimes stormy winters, combined with mild, cool summer seasons.
The settlement of Washington County began in the Harmony Valley at Harmony Fort, just off
the present I-15 freeway at the New Harmony interchange. The earliest settlers arrived in 1852,
left for a year, and returned in 1854. Crops were raised in 1854 and the following winter was
spent there.

The fort was begun in 1854, and Brigham Young arrived and helped dig some of the dirt for the
foundation. Washington County was created in March, 1852, with New Harmony being named
as the County seat. The fort, 300'X 300'in size housed most of the people of Harmony. It had
only one defect. It was made from adobe brick and the rain and wind dissolved the earthen walls
during a severe storm in 1862. The severity of this storm and the subsequent loss of their homes,
caused the people to move to higher ground to the west where the Town of New Harmony is now
located.

The Town has remained in the new location since the 1862 storm and has grown only minimally.
In 1865 there were twenty-five families and 225 people in New Harmony. In recent years,
development has taken place in many parts of the Valley. Subdivisions are now located in the
vicinity of the old fort, to the south along Kanarra Creek and Ash Creek, and to the south of New
Harmony Town. It is now expected that this growth and development will continue into the
future. Because of the expected continued growth, there is a need for an updated General Plan
for the Valley.

UNDERSTANDING THE PLAN

The General Plan identifies various land use categories and considers the use of each of these
classifications. Many of these types of land use are considered in terms of the Goals and Policies
that are adopted as a part of the Plan. Goals and policies are described as follows:

A GOAL represents an objective relative to some aspect of development that the County has
determined to achieve.

A POLICY is an action that will allow, or help the County to achieve the desired goal.

ELEMENTS OF THE PLAN

The New Harmony Bench is a beautiful area with many unique characteristics. There are many
qualities about the area that set it apart from other areas of the County. Therefore, as the area
continues to grow and develop, it is necessary that the things that make the New Harmony Bench
what is, are preserved. There is a limited amount of water in the valley and this will determine
the extent to which development will take place. Historically, where water is, agriculture can
flourish, or homes can be built. Where water does not exist, livestock grazing takes place. The
                                               182
key to the success in the Plan for the Harmony Valley is to establish goals and policies that will
allow development to take place, using the water that is available, but to guide the development
into a pattern that will maintain and protect most of the values that have caused people to come
to this area. The Goals and Policies of the County to accomplish this purpose are identified in
the following sections of the Plan:

Land Use:

Open space areas

Open space areas of the valley may include such things as Public Land, drainage channels and
washes, unstable soils, reservoirs, livestock grazing lands, steep slopes, a lack of irrigation water,
or a lack of culinary water. Land classified in open space should remain in this classification
until any of the above conditions have been altered. At that time, the most appropriate land
classification should be determined. Following are goal and policies relative to the open space
classification and use of land in the Harmony Valley:

GOAL:          Identify open space areas within the valley and provide protection from
development in the areas identified. Areas that may be hazardous in nature and are of an open
space character should be maintained as open space in order to protect the health, safety, and
welfare of the present and future residents of the valley.

POLICIES:

       •       Maintain an open space designation along all of the major washes and streams
               running through the valley.

       •       Identify the 100 year flood plain along these streams and washes. In order to
               protect the health, safety, and welfare of the residents. Do not issue building
               permits, or approve subdivisions in these areas.

       •       Encourage the public agencies to maintain their lands in an open space category.
               Do not exchange public lands in this valley for private lands elsewhere in the
               County.

       •       Allow the public lands to provide a buffer zone between the private land in the
               valley and other private lands outside of the valley area.

       •       Establish zoning classifications that will preserve the public lands and the other
               types of land uses identified herein as open space areas.

       •       Continue to encourage uses in open space areas that will encourage their
               remaining open. This might include livestock grazing, recreation uses, water
               courses, reservoirs, and other similar uses.


                                                 183
       •       A more detailed study could be conducted to identify possible recreation
               opportunities that might be developed along the major streams in the valley such
               as Ash Creek, and Kanarra Creek.

       •       Such a study might include consideration for the development of parks, riding
               trails; hiking and walking trails, etc. that have been identified in the 2010 citizen
               questionnaire as being desirable to develop in the Harmony Valley area.

       •       The parcel of BLM land near the Town of New Harmony should be acquired by
               the Town to maintain future open space and recreation use of that property.

       •       Setbacks greater than the normal requirements of the Zoning Ordinance should be
               established near major washes, streams, and drainage channels. These areas
               should not be a part of subdivided lots for building purposes.
               .
       •       Work with the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT), owner of the land
               surrounding the Black Ridge Reservoir, and the irrigation company who controls
               the water rights, to find a means to stabilize the elevation of the reservoir to
               protect "Old Highway 91" along the south side of the reservoir to guarantee the
               use of this roadway during all weather and run-off conditions. Without this policy
               the county cannot continue to maintain this section of roadway

Agricultural Land:

Considerable agricultural land has historically existed in the Harmony Valley both in
Washington and in Iron counties. Most of this land has been "dry" land because of a lack of
water for irrigated crop production. The continued expansion of agricultural land in the area is
not expected. In fact, given the natural course of events, agricultural land will continue to
decrease and disappear. The county has identified its position relative to agricultural land with
the following Goals and Policies.

GOAL:          To maintain the quality of life that is realized from having agricultural land
around the valley. Promote the continued operation of agricultural land in the area.

POLICIES:

       •       Follow policies identified in the section dealing with residential development.
               Many of these policies relate to the maintenance of agricultural areas.

       •       Deed to the County, home owners associations, or land trusts, the agricultural
               land after one of the residential policies has been used to guarantee continued
               agricultural use. Groups then owning land could contract with those interested in
               farming the land to continue agricultural operations.

       •       Maintain a low overall density in agricultural areas, except as provided for in
               density transfer and clustering provisions.
                                                184
       •       Encourage green belt classification of agricultural land.

       •       Encourage the establishment of agricultural protection areas according to State
               and County ordinance.

       •       Encourage installation of pressurized irrigation systems that would make more
               efficient use of available water.

       •       Educate new residents as to the agricultural character of the valley and solicit
               their support for agricultural use of land to avoid citizen complaint against
               agricultural operations.

Residential Development

Residential development has taken place at various locations in the Harmony Valley. The town
of New Harmony is located near the westerly edge of the valley. Other developments have taken
place near the interstate freeway and south and east of New Harmony Town. In order to give
direction to residential development in the valley, the plan suggests a goal to be achieved and
policies to help achieve the goal.

GOAL:          To provide for residential housing in attractive, functional neighborhoods to meet
the needs of potential residents.

POLICIES:

       •       Maintain strict standards concerning the size of homes, and encourage the
               landscaping of yard areas around homes. Use natural landscaping where practical.

       •       Continue to use the same standards for modular or manufactured homes as for
               other types of residential construction.

       •       The Zoning Ordinance should be used to determine housing densities in different
               areas with an overall valley density of 5 acres per dwelling unit. Specific
               developments should not have a density of less than 2-1/2 acres per dwelling unit
               within the overall 5 acre density for all areas using septic tanks for waste disposal

       •       Care must be given in residential areas to follow the transportation plan of the
               valley to make sure that vehicular traffic can circulate easily throughout the
               valley.

       •       Within the densities established by the Zoning Ordinance, encourage the transfer
               of density to clusters of smaller parcels within the overall density requirement,
               thus providing large portions of the land to remain in agriculture or open space.


                                                185
       •      Allow the transfer of clustered development from one density classification to
              another in order to create even larger areas of open space, unencumbered by
              residential development.

       •      Establish minimum lot sizes for cluster housing, or for transferred densities, that
              will protect the health, safety, and welfare of residents from sanitation problems,
              but which will maximize the amount of open space and agricultural land
              preserved.

       •      Cluster and higher density development should only be approved in areas where
              package plant type waste disposal facilities have been established.

Vision Dixie Plan:

A number of the residents of the Harmony Valley participated in the Vision Dixie Plan that was
undertaken buy the county a few years ago. The outgrowth of the study and the
recommendations by the committee charged with reviewing the material collected was a series of
guidelines and policies aimed at guiding future growth in the county. The summary of the
Vision Dixie Study, adopted by the county and most of the incorporated cities and towns is
summarized for the residents of the Harmony Valley area by summary of the policies adopted in
the Plan and relating them to this area.

Policies:

   1. Plan regionally, implement locally - The General Plan for the Harmony Valley area is a
      locally prepared plan for this area of the county only, and is a part of the overall county
      General Plan. It deals with aspects of the future of the valley and may be amended from
      time to time as necessary, dealing with the concerns of the residents of this valley and not
      related to the county at large.
   2. Maintain air and water quality, and conserve water - This valley has a high standard of
      air quality. The low population density and the separation of this area from other more
      urban areas help to maintain good air quality. Water conservation has always been
      necessary because of a limited amount of water available in most of the subdivisions in
      the valley.
   3. Guard our Signature Landscapes - The surrounding hillsides of this valley are
      maintained in an open space category on public land. With theVision Dixie Principles in
      place, it can be expected that the surrounding view sheds on the public land will be
      protected.
   4. Provide connected natural recreation areas and open spaces - The surrounding public land
      areas provide considerable natural recreation areas. The Pine Valley Wilderness Area is
      adjacent to the valley on the west as part of the Pine Valley Mountains. The valley is
      surrounded by connected public lands including the National Forest, the Bureau of Land
      Management, and Zion National Park. These areas are all connected.
   5. Build a balanced transportation system - There are no public transportation systems
      available to the residents of the Harmony Valley. Contact with the public transportation
      bus systems may be able to arrange for a stop at the New Harmony interchange, or for the
                                               186
       St. George Shuttle to stop at this interchange when residents have reservations to travel to
       areas in northern Utah.
   6. Get centered by focusing on growth in walk-able mixed use centers - The Harmony
       Valley is a large geographic area. Because it was developed outside of the Vision Dixie
       Plan, the various developments are spread out with significant open space areas between
       them. Over time, some of these areas will fill in making some degree of walking useful
       in parts of the valley. At this time, a unified transportation system connecting each of
       these areas together is probably more important than to connect each of the various
       subdivisions by walking trails. The Harmony Valley fits the Vision Dixie Plan in
       providing satellite commercial centers throughout the county. A location within this
       valley would meet the criteria for a satellite commercial center.
   7. Direct growth inward - Currently, most of the residential development is located in the
       "four corners" of the valley. The only direction for growth to take place in the future will
       be by infill into the central parts of the valley. This will happen when the major property
       owner submits plans for further residential development.
   8. Provide a wide-range of housing types - This policy works well in the urbanized area of
       the county where sewer systems are available. It does not work well in the
       unincorporated areas of the county where sewer service is not available. It is very
       difficult to provide mixed use or a high density development using septic tanks.
   9. Reserve areas for industry - Industrial development could exist in the Harmony Valley.
       However, he current freeway interchanges have developed primarily in a residential
       character. If industrial development should come to the valley, areas would need to be
       identified where freeway access is readily available without the need to travel through
       existing residential areas, or areas far from the freeway.
   10. Public land conversion - The valley is surrounded by public land. None of this land is
       identified as being necessary for the future development of the valley.

Commercial Development

Commercial development in the Harmony Valley should be kept to the minimum needed to serve
the convenience needs of the residents and to provide for the needs of the traveling public on the
Interstate Freeway.

GOAL:          Allow sufficient commercial development to provide for the convenience
               commercial needs of valley residents, and to serve the traveling public.
POLICIES:

       •       Limit highway commercial development to convenient locations adjacent to the
               freeway interchanges.

       •       Limit convenience commercial development to the freeway interchanges, and to
               the incorporated community area.

       •       Do not allow strip commercial development along the major collector system of
               roadways.

                                               187
       •      Consider other convenience commercial uses only as an integrated part of the
              overall development plan for large-scale residential developments.

       •      Consider other convenience commercial uses only as an integrated part of the
              overall development plan for large-scale residential developments, and as a means
              of meeting the provisions of the Vision Dixie Plan to make commercial areas as
              convenient to the majority of residents as possible

Transportation and Circulation

It is important to provide for convenient movement of traffic in and through the Harmony
Valley. The various developments need to be linked together to provide for a harmonious
development of the area. Residents should not find it necessary to use the freeway to get from
one residential neighborhood to another.

GOAL:          Provide a circulation system that will move people and goods safely through the
valley with access from one residential area to another residential area and to the Interstate
Freeway.

POLICIES:

       •      Adopt a circulation system of streets as a part of this planning study.

       •      Require segments of roadways to be constructed as development takes place in
              any given area.

       •      Work with owners of open space, or agricultural land, to provide necessary major
              or collector roads to be constructed through these areas to connect residential
              areas while maintaining a minimum of impact on the adjoining land.

       •      Identify, as part of the circulation system, a secondary access to the freeway from
              the area in and around New Harmony.

       •      Require all new development to provide paved roadways as a part of the initial
              development of the subdivided property.

       •      Encourage the County to provide regular roadway maintenance of existing
              County roadways, and to provide regular snow removal from these roads during
              the winter storm season.




                                               188
Recreation

There are many areas of potential recreation development in the Harmony Valley. The Plan
should encourage the development of desirable recreation facilities throughout the valley.

GOAL:           Provide for the planning and development of appropriate recreational facilities for
the residents of the Harmony Valley.

POLICIES:

       •       A plan should be prepared identifying desirable recreation activities enjoyed or
               desired by residents of the area

       •       A recreation plan may include parks, riding trails; walking or hiking trails, and
               other types of recreation activities, etc. that have been identified in the 2010
               citizen questionnaire as being desirable to develop in the Harmony Valley area.

       •       Encourage the public land managers to continue a multiple use approach to the
               management of BLM and National Forest lands which will allow for hiking,
               hunting, etc., on the public lands.

       •       Encourage the Town of New Harmony to prepare a plan for the development of
               the isolated parcel of BLM land near the Town and to make application to the
               BLM to acquire this property under a recreation and public purpose lease.

       •       Encourage the Ash Creek Water Users Association to line the Ash Creek
               Reservoir to provide for maintenance of water in the reservoir and the creation of
               recreational and/or fishing activities at the reservoir.

Public Services:

As the area continues to grow and develop, the need for public services continues to increase. A
determination should be made as to how best to provide the services that are needed by residents.

GOAL:          Create a mechanism for identifying and providing public service needs of the
residents.

POLICIES:
Establish a committee of residents of the various parts of the valley to identify those services that
would be most desirable for residents to enjoy.

       •       Prepare detailed plans, where necessary, for accomplishing the elements of the
               needs study recommended above.


                                                 189
       •         Consider the creation of a Community Council to represent the residents of the
                 unincorporated area of the valley, and coordinate the efforts of this council with
                 that of the Town of New Harmony.

       •         Consider the creation of a Special Service District to serve all of the residents of
                 the valley, including those in New Harmony Town, in order to provide the means
                 of accomplishing some of the needs identified by the residents. A Special Service
                 District with locally elected leaders could provide a large measure of self-
                 determination to residents of the area.

       •         Determine the services that might be provided through a Special Service District,
                 even though some services might not be needed at the present time. These
                 services could be added at a later time without amending the District.

       •         Consider a unification of the various water systems in the valley into one water
                 district with professional management and operation.

       •         Consider the creation of Special Improvement Districts to provide for the paving
                 or roads in subdivision that are not presently paved, but which property owners
                 would like to see paved.

       •         Insure that services provided to the unincorporated areas of the County do not
                 result in double taxation upon the residents living in incorporated Cities and
                 Towns.

       •         In the event that development densities endanger ground water supplies, be
                 prepared to initiate plans for construction of waste treatment facilities in the
                 valley. This could become part of a special service district if it should become
                 necessary.

       •         Consider other convenience commercial uses only as an integrated part of the
                 overall development plan for large-scale residential developments, and as a means
                 of meeting the provisions of the Vision Dixie Plan to make commercial areas as
                 convenient to the majority of residents as possible.

Public Safety:

In the area of public safety, police protection is provided by the Washington County Sheriff'  s
Office. This service will continue as long as the valley continues to be an unincorporated part of
the county. Some areas in the county, who desire a greater presence of officers, have contracted
with the county for an increased visibility of officers in exchange for additional funds being
contributed by the area involved.




                                                  190
Road Maintenance and Improvement:

Road maintenance and improvement has been identified as a major concern of residents in the
valley.

POLICIES:

       •       The General Plan encourages the development of frontage roads on both sides of
               the Interstate 15 Freeway. Contact should be made with the Congressional
               delegation from Utah to encourage them to submit a bill before Congress to allow
               the construction of the east side frontage road. If approved by Congress, then
               UDOT should be contacted to provide funding for the improvement of this section
               of roadway between the two freeway interchanges.

       •       On the westerly side of the freeway, the General Plan recommends that contact be
               made with the arm of the LDS Church that is managing the land in the New
               Harmony area to encourage approval of the frontage road on this side of the
               freeway. If approval is granted, UDOT should be contacted relative to the
               financing of a frontage road connecting the two interchanges together.

       •       The General Plan recommends that contact be made with the LDS Church relative
               to opening up the roadway between New Harmony Town and the Kolob freeway
               interchange, and determine what would be required to allow it to become a county
               road, and to be improved to a higher standard than presently exists. The road
               running south from the library should be extended to connect to the road from the
               town of New Harmony to the freeway interchange at the Kolob area.

       •       Residents living in any of the various subdivisions in the New Harmony valley
               area should discuss the needs of their specific subdivision relative to further road
               improvements. If significant interest exists to upgrade the condition of any of
               these roads, the General Plan recommends that contact be made with the county to
               determine cost estimates, etc., relative to roadway improvements. The General
               Plan recommends that consideration be given to creating improvement districts to
               ease the cost of improvements to individual home owners.

Annexation and Incorporation

As the valley continues to grow and development, as the numbers of residents continues to
increase, the time may come that it would be in the interest of residents to consider creating one
governmental entity whether it came about through annexation, or incorporation of the presently
unincorporated areas.

GOAL:         Provide unification of the valley through either annexation into New Harmony
Town, or through the creation of a Town by another name to provide for the needs of the
residents.

                                               191
POLICIES:

     •      Work with New Harmony relative to the expansion of the Town to include the
            various developments that take place in the valley.

     •      Establish guidelines for annexation of unincorporated land into the Town that
            may be followed by land owners desiring to become a part of New Harmony.

     •      Monitor the growth and development of the valley to determine at some point
            whether or not annexation of the entire valley or the creation of a new town by
            another name would be of advantage to the residents in being better able to
            respond to their needs and desires.

     •      Recognize that the purpose of a Town or City is to provide for the urbanized
            needs of an area that cannot conveniently be provided by individual property
            owners. Also recognize that Washington County is not an urban service County
            and that urban services may better be provided through Town or City government.

     •      The county feels that the form of government that is closest to the people is the
            best form of government. The county does not oppose the incorporation of a
            community. The county does not promote incorporation of an area nor does it
            oppose such incorporation. The county will lend support to whatever decision the
            area might make.

     •      Any desire of the residents of the New Harmony Valley to become a part of Iron
            County would need to make contact with the legislators from the two counties in
            order to have a bill submitted to the legislature for consideration. The approval of
            a change in the boundary of a county must be approved by the State Legislature
            and the Governor. The local commissioners in both of the counties would need to
            be in agreement with a change before it would likely gain any traction with the
            legislature




                                            192
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS

The Harmony Valley is an area of Washington County that enjoys distinct differences from all
other parts of the County. It is surrounded mostly by public lands, including the Kolob Canyons
area of Zion National Park. Development has begun to take place in the valley and this trend is
expected to continue. There is a limited amount of water in the valley to sustain growth and
development, but direction needs to be given to the development that does take place to make
certain that it does not destroy the open space, agricultural character of the valley that causes it to
be attractive to the residents living there. There is room in the valley for continued growth, for
open space, for agriculture, for recreation, and commercial development. Efforts need to be
made to provide for the infrastructure that will be necessary to serve the residents of the area.
An adequate circulation system is one of the most important needs. Through proper planning
and adherence to the plan, the Harmony Valley should be able to sustain the growth that will take
place, and at the same time maintain a quality of life that may be hard to duplicate in any other
area.

                                   APPENDIX
                        HARMONY VALLEY LAND USE ANALYSIS
 Land Designation                                 Acreage                     Percentage
 Private Land                                              14,840                     100.0%
 New Harmony Town                                            280                       1.8%
 L.D.S. Church                                              4,480                     30.1%
 Harmony Heights Subdivisions                                200                       1.3%
 Thorley Subdivision                                         240                       1.6%
 Harmony Views Subdivisions                                  300                       2.0%
 Blackridge Ranch Subdivisions                               760                       5.1%
 Roadways (existing & proposed)                              350                       2.3%
 Drainage channels & Washes                                  620                       4.2%
 Ash Creek Reservoir                                         320                       2.1%
 Total of above categories:
 (less Private & L.D.S. land)                               3,070                     20.6%

 Balance of developable land:                              11,770                     79.3%




                                                 193
                                                                               NUMBER OF
PRESENT DEVELOPMENT:                            NUMBER OF LOTS                   HOMES
Blackridge Ranches                                         391                      58
New Harmony Farms                                          131                      24
Thorley Subdivision                                        10                        9
Harmony Heights                                            77                        5
                       Existing Totals:                    609                      96

 Existing Water:                2,419.08 ac. ft. underground     1,446.77 ac. ft. surface

 School Age Children:                                  Elementary – 38        Secondary - 50
                                     Total:                              88



                        HARMONY VALLEY PUBLIC MEETING


The Planning Commission held a meeting with the citizens of the New Harmony valley to
receive input for updating of the General Plan of that area of the County. The majority of the
comments dealt with the following concerns:

      •       Maintain a low density pattern of development. Lots should be in the 2 -1/2 to 5
             acre range.

      •       Provide protection for agricultural areas.

      •       Maintain open space and rural atmosphere in the area.

      •       Limit commercial development to the freeway interchanges and the Town of New
             Harmony.

Following the public meeting, the County Planning Consultant has held meetings with small
work groups and large property owners throughout the valley to further discuss concerns and to
develop goals and policies for consideration as a part of the County General Plan.

Public meetings have also been held at which time all residents and property owners were
encouraged to attend to review the General Plan proposals prior to holding public hearings
before the Planning Commission and County Commission.


                                               194
                                   HARMONY VALLEY
                                   STATISCIAL DATA

Some statistical data for the New Harmony Valley has been updated since the last update of the
General Plan. The following data is included in this update:

Subdivisions:

        Blackridge Ranches (Phases)          233 (lots)       1,470 (acres)
        Doug Thorley                             15               421
        Flint Ridge                               1                 2
        Fort Harmony                              6                19
        Harmony Heights (Phases)                 74               240
        Kolob Ranches (Phases)                  157               709
        New Harmony Farms (Phases)              128               696
        North Canyon (Phases)                     4                40
        North Valley Ranches (Phases)            22               257
        Prince Subdivision                        4                80
                           Total Lots:          644           3.934 acres

Current Total Dwelling Units:               350             294 vacant lots

New of permits over the past 10 years       193

Estimated 10 year population increase using NH Valley family size:        480 persons
Estimated 10 year population increase using county family size:           580 persons

Estimated 2011 population using New Harmony Valley family average: 875 persons
Estimated 2011 population using Washington County family average: 1,050 persons

10 year projection using the number of permits for the past
       10 years extended for the next 10 years: Total Dwellings           543
       Using New Harmony family size average: Population                1,358
       Using county family size average:             Population         1,630




                                              195
            WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY STATISTICAL SURVEY
                                  FOR
                     THE NEW HARMONY VALLEY AREA
                               2010 - 1011

In the summer of 2010 a community meeting was held at the County Library building regarding
the development of a General Plan study for this unincorporated area of the county. Attendees
were asked to fill out a questionnaire relating to the current conditions in the valley. Additional
copies of the questionnaire could be submitted to the count planning department either in hard
copy or by the internet. Following is a summary of the statistics received by the county and
submitted to several different means.

1.     Residency:
       a.     How long have you lived in this area?             10 year average
       b.     Number in family:                                  2.5 member average
       c.     Homeowners:                                       94.80 %
       d.     Land owners only:                                  5.20 %

2.     Reasons for living in the New Harmony valley area:

       a.      Born or raised in the area                       10.2 %
       b.      Close to family, friends, or neighbors           25.6 %
       c.      Close to mountains, etc.                         94.8 %
       d.      Like open space                                  94.8 %
       e.      Opportunity to keep animals                      64.1 %
       f.      Quiet community                                  94.8 %
       g.      Recreation opportunities                         66.6 %
       h.      Safe community                                   74.3 %
       i.      Small town atmosphere                            87.1 %

3.     Should the rural atmosphere be preserved?

       Yes - 94.8 %                   No -    5.2 %
       How should it be done?

       Maintain low density housing, limit sales of agricultural land, limit commercial
       development, limit new roads, have no street lights, enforce CC & R'   s, county help with
       building codes, have a minimum of 5 acre lots, no street paving, don'  t split lots, no
       businesses near mixed lot sizes, no subdivisions, county to buy conservation easements,
       designate high density areas, keep rural areas, lock freeway entrances, leave alone, have
       large lots, no windmills

4.     Should farmland be preserved?

       Yes - 97.4 %                           No -      2.5 %
                                                196
     How should it be preserved?

     Keep existing zoning/development regulations, county to buy development rights, require
     large lots, keep farming, leave it alone, preserve historic sites, stop commercial
     development, create incentives for agriculture, sell land only as now used, have permits
     required to subdivide, encourage crops, work with SUU and FFA, allow subdivision only
     if owner wants to subdivide, limit development

5.   Would you favor developing a system of walking/bicycle trails throughout the
     community?

     Yes:   61.5 %                        No:      41.0 %

6.   Mark on a scale of 1 to 5 your concerns on each of the following, traffic, safety, street
     and road conditions, unsafe OHV use, and road dedication. 5 = most concerned, 1 = least
     concerned, 0 = no perceived problem.

     a.      Off highway vehicles on streets - 0 = 12.8 %, 5 = 12.8 %, 4 = 2.5 %,
            3 = 12.8 %, 2 = 20.5 %, 1 = 30.7 %
     b.     Speed and traffic control - 0 = 12.8 %, 5 = 30.7 %, 4 = 7.6 %, 3 = 5.1 %
            2 = 12.8 %, 1 = 12.8 %
     c.     Road conditions - 0 = 2.5 %, 5 = 46.2 %, 4 = 17.9 %, 3 = 15.3 %,
            2 = 2.5 %, 1 = 12.8 %
     d.     Unsafe OHV use - 0 = 5.1 %, 5 = 28.2 %, 4 = 5.1 %, 3 = 23.1 %,
            2 = 20.5 %, 1 = 12.8 %
     e.     Road dedication - 0 = 25.6 %, 5 = 20.5 %, 4 = 2.5 %. 3 = 7.6 %,
            2 = 15.4 %, 1 = 12.8 %
     f.     Other: Mow the roadsides, plow snow in town, have rules for OHV riders,
            have no street lights, keep noise levels low, control dust, connect the frontage
            roads between the interchanges, have two ways in and out of valley, none, move
            to cities, improve roads because we pay taxes, crown and ditch roads, don'   t pave
            everything, the dust and dirt on the roads is unhealthy

7.   Desired commercial or industrial business:

     None (43.5 % of those filling out questionnaire), a food market, a convenience market, a
     larger market at the Texaco market location, a mini mall, café, hardware store, a barber
     and beauty shop, auto repair garage, bed and breakfast inn, school, park, home
     occupations only, a fast food restaurant, a restaurant with good food, No business more
     than 1/2 mile from the freeway interchanges, no wind mill farms

8.   Where should commercial or industrial development be located?



                                             197
      Close to I-15, next to the post office, Cedar City or St. George, or somewhere else, like
      Central, Veyo, or Enterprise, no big boxes, must be architecturally pleasing, single story,
      no signs or advertising, along the county road, in New Harmony, in Kanarraville

9.    Please rate on a scale of 1 - 5 your experience with the following local services as they
      relate to the area. Excellent = 5, Poor = 1, 0 = no experience.

      a.     Ambulance - 0 = 23.1 %, 5 = 15.4 %, 4 = 25.6 %, 3 = 20.5 %,
             2 = 7.6 %, 1 = 2.5 %
      b.     Drinking water quality and service - 5 = 59.2 %, 4 = 15.4 %, 3 = 5.1 %
      c.     Electric power - 0 = 7.6 %, 5 = 35.9 %, 4 = 33.3 %, 3 = 7.6 %,
             2 = 2.5 %, 1 = 2.5 %
      d.     Fire protection - 0 = 2.5 %, 5 = 38.5 %, 4 = 35.9 %
      e.     Garbage collection - 0 = 5.1 %, 5 = 53.8 %, 4 = 35.9 %
      f.     Law enforcement - 0 = 12.8 %, 5 = 17.9 %, 4 = 17.9 %,
             3 = 20.5 %, 2 = 5.1 %, 1 = 5.1 %
      g.     Postal service - 0 = 2.5 %, 5 = 69.2 %, 4 = 17.9 %, 3 = 5.1 %,
      h.     School transportation - 0 = 41.0 %, 5 = 17.9 %, 4 = 23.1 %,
             3 = 5.1 %, 1 = 2.5 %
      i.     Telephone service - 0 = 15.3 %, 5 = 25.6 %, 4 = 28.2 %,
             3 = 12.8 %, 2 = 2.5 %, 1 = 10.2 %
      j.     Cellular service - 5 = 25.6 %, 4 = 25.6 %, 3 = 17.9 %, 2 = 10.3 %
             1 = 2.5 %
      k.     Other services:         Internet, better fire prevention, snow removal, new
             power and telephone lines, too many power outages

10.   Should the community consider providing recreation facilities?

      Yes - 43.6 %                            No - 51.3 %

11.   List services that could be provided:

      A town hall, gymnasium, not needed, a senior citizen facility, park, picnic area, walking,
      bicycle, and horse trails, Fort Harmony tourism, club house, sports fields, a community
      center, equestrian trails, open Mormon and stage coach trails, horse and fitness trails,
      fishery, an indoor exercise facility

12.   How can you best be informed about meetings?

      a.     Word of mouth                         48.7 %
      b.     Posting at the fire station           20.5 %
      c.     Posting at a store                    17.9 %
      d.     At the mail boxes                     74.4 %
      e.     County web site                       69.2 %
      f.     Other:          Valley news letter, E-mail, church, library, direct mail

                                               198
13.   Did you participate in the Vision Dixie Planning program?

      Yes - 28.2 %                           No -   48.7 %

14.   If you participated - your comments:

      Need for good communication especially with the county, the need to connect roadways,
      an elementary school, keep the open space and rural setting, designate high density
      areas, we need more young families, listen and act, maintain the old highway by the
      reservoir, no curb and gutter on lots over one acre, post on property

15.   Final comments:

      Communicate with people more, preserve rural and remote areas, use existing groups to
      help with planning, a horse arena, make more use of the county arena, we need a zip
      code, incorporate, provide information on solar and wind power, create horse trails, join
      Iron county, name streets




                                              199
             WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY SURVEY ANALYSIS
                                 FOR
                      THE HARMONY VALLEY AREA
                               2010-2011

At a meeting in the Harmony Valley in the summer of 2010, it was indicated that the county was
going to update the General Plan of the Harmony Valley. A questionnaire was filled out and has
been tabulated by the county. Following is a brief analysis of the information from the
questionnaire.

After reviewing the material in the questionnaire it became very apparent that there is a certain
amount of misunderstanding relative to several issues facing this valley and the other
unincorporated areas in the county. These issues are discussed as follows:

1.     I-15 frontage roads:

       On the east side of I-15 at the New Harmony exit there is a small subdivision located
       there. The main north-south road in the subdivision dead ends at the southern end of the
       subdivision. The property from this point to the Kolob Canyon interchange is owned by
       the National Park Service. Many years ago, they were approached, through the Park
       Superintendent, about the possibility of opening a road through the National Park to
       connect the road on the north with the interchange to the south. The county found out
       that would require an act of Congress to authorize a road to be opened up through the
       National Park. As a result, it never happened.

       Depending upon the makeup the Presidency and Congress following the 2012 election, it
       may be possible to have the Congressional Representative from this area to propose a bill
       in congress to allow such a road to be constructed.

       On the westerly side of 1-15 along the west side of the land that was once owned by Mr.
       Anderson, there is a 50'right-of-way across this land. South of that property the land is
       owned by the LDS Church. There is another parcel of private property between the LDS
       land and the Kolob Canyon Interchange.

2.     Connection between Kolob Canyon Interchange and New Harmony Town:

       Some years ago the LDS Church, the majority land owner on the New Harmony Bench,
       started developing their property, primarily areas fronting the county road between the I-
       15 freeway and the Town of New Harmony. At that time, the church and the county
       were very close to being able to open the road through the LDS Church land. When the
       decision was made by the church to return to livestock production and to cancel
       development for a time, they did not favor opening the road because of the problems it
       would create for grazing livestock in the area of the roadway. At such time as they once
       again begin developing, that road should be able to be opened and used.


                                                200
     The road itself is not a main highway. It is however an existing roadway and is very easy
     to travel in an automobile. While not being a high speed highway and a straight road
     such as the road from I-15 to New Harmony Town, it is a good road, readily passable,
     and a very scenic drive between the two areas. The county is not prepared to condemn
     the property, fence the entire right-of-way, and improve the road condition by paving it.

     This will happen at some future time, but it will be determined by the future decision of
     the LDS Church. In addition, the road going south from the county library should be
     extended across the Church land and tie into the New Harmony to the Kolob interchange
     road.

3.   Road improvements:

     In Washington County roads are improved and maintained in two ways. One way is for
     the improvements to be installed at the time the subdivision is approved by the county.
     The county standards have changed many times over past years. At one time, no specific
     improvements were required. A developer could tell the county that no one wanted
     paved roads and therefore the roads were not paved. This worked well until the first home
     was built and the cars going by created dust. Then the homeowner wished that the roads
     were paved. Homeowners did not pay for paved roads when they bought their lots. They
     actually paid for the amount of road improvement that is in the subdivision in which they
     live.

     Washington County does not use property taxes for road maintenance. The county
     receives money each year from the State of Utah that is collected in the form of gasoline
     tax. This amount changes each year and forms the basis for maintenance of all county
     roads. Last year, the General Fund or Washington County received approximately five
     cents for every dollar of taxes paid. This represents the lowest general fund tax of all
     twenty-nine counties in the State.

     The position of the county for several decades has been to maintain the county roads in
     the same condition as they are in at the time the subdivision plats are recorded. It is not
     uncommon for residents in subdivision in the county to desire to have their roads paved
     or otherwise improved. The county is willing to create special improvement districts to
     improve roads in any area where the residents would like them improved. By creating an
     improvement district, the cost of the improvement can be spread over a period of time,
     usually about ten years. This method of improvement is available if the residents are in
     favor of doing so. Otherwise, the county will continue to maintain the roads in the
     condition they were in at the time of subdivision approval.

     Roads with "borrow ditches" along each side have become a major maintenance problem
     in the county. It would require to men, a dump truck, and a back hoe to work full time to
     maintain all of the culverts crossing borrow ditches into individual lots to keep them
     cleaned out and working. Further, property owners frequently landscape their lots out to
     the edge of the travel way by placing large rocks, etc, in the county right-of-way. These

                                             201
     objects create a significant problem for the county to remove materials that may cause
     traffic problems. It is easier to maintain curb and gutter.

Residency and family size:

The average resident in the Harmony Valley has lived here approximately ten years. The
interesting thing is to notice the average family size which is about 2.5 residents per dwelling.
The county average is out 3 residents per family. This lower number would tend to indicate
that there are many seasonal residents in the area and many retired residents who live here
either part time of full time.

Reasons for living in the Harmony Valley:

There were a number of reasons given for living in this area. The highest number mentioned
were being close to the mountains, or liking the open space of the area. A quiet community
was also rated high as a reason for living in this valley. It is also considered to be a safe
community.

Should the rural character be preserved?

Over 90 % of those responding to the questionnaire would like to preserve the rural
atmosphere. Many reasons were given as suggestions as to how to maintain these qualities that
are strongly supported by residents. Their suggestions include some of the following:
Maintain low density housing, limit sales of agricultural land, limit commercial development,
limit new roads, have no street lights, enforce CC& R' s, no street paving, designate high
density areas, don'
                  t allow lot splits, no new subdivisions, county to buy conservations
easements, lock the freeway entrances, leave things alone, no windmills.

Some of these suggestions may be good suggestions for the future of the valley, but have little
to do with maintaining the rural character. Large lot sizes will work. The county has no way
to limit the sale of agricultural land or whether someone continues to farm or not. The county
does not currently require street lights in new subdivisions. The county does not enforce
conditions, covenants and restrictions (CC& R'    s). It is the responsibility of individual home
owners, or associations to enforce this type of restriction.

Conservation easements are a good way to preserve various types of open space land.
However the county does not have tax money to spend buying such rights. There are various
entities that do purchase conservation easements that residents of the area could look into. The
county has been a recipient of the purchase of conservation easements. Locking the freeway
exits may be a good way to keep new residents out, but it may make it hard for residents to
come and go as they would like.

Should farm land be preserved?

Over 97 % of the residents filling out questionnaires were in favor of preserving the farm land
in the valley. Comments on the county buying development rights were discussed in the
                                              202
previous section relating to maintaining the rural character of the valley. Whether or not to
work with SUU (Southern Utah University) or FFA (Future Farmers of America) are decisions
that would need to be left up to existing farmers to decide. There are presently methods of
protecting agricultural land including the Green Belt legislation which protects the farmer from
increases in land value until such time as the land is sold. There is also legislation for
Farmland Protection to allow farmers to continue farming when neighbors may be upset with
some farming practices.

Walking and bicycle trails:

A majority of those filling out the questionnaires were in favor of developing bicycle and
walking trails in the valley. There was also interest in including equestrian (horseback riding)
as a part of any such trails that might be developed. However a significant number of people
also were not in favor of trails and indicated that the present road system was adequate for
these purposes.

Concerns about traffic safety, street and road conditions, unsafe OHV use, and street
dedication:

There was not any particular concern raised about the use of OHV use. Speed was indicated as
a concern by about 1/3 of the respondents. Road conditions were discussed at the beginning of
this analysis. Unsafe OHV use does not appear to be a serious problem in the area. Some
concern was raised about road dedication. None of these issues, except concerns about roads,
was raised to a serious concern level.

Desired commercial or industrial business:

Almost half of the respondents to the questionnaire indicated that there was no place in the
valley for further commercial or industrial development. On the other hand, about the same
number indicated the types of commercial development that they felt would be of benefit to the
area. These things are listed in the statistical survey under # 7 of that document. At least one
respondent indicated, with a good sense of humor, that any commercial development should be
located in Enterprise, Central, or Veyo.

Public Services:

A number of public services in the valley were identified with a response as to concerns that
may exist with the various services provided.

Several services received high ratings. These services include Drinking water quality and
service, garbage collection, and postal service. Moderate and acceptable ratings were given to
services including electric power, and fire protection. Receiving the lowest ratings were
services such as law enforcement, school transportation, telephone and cellular service. It
should be noted however, that ambulance service and school transportation had a high rating of
those who expressed little or no experience with the services. In other words, they had not
used ambulance service and had no children riding a school bus.
                                              203
In addition to the services listed in the questionnaire, there were several services mentioned
that were provided but which could be improved. These included internet service, better fire
prevention, snow removal and new power and telephone lines.

Should the area provide recreation facilities?

The majority of respondents by a slim margin indicated No, Slightly less than half of those
responding indicated yes and then went on to list a number of different facilities that they
would like to see in this area.

How to best inform residents of public meetings:

The first choice is by listing meetings at the mail boxes. Posting on the county web site was
also highly supported. Other sources suggested include including meetings in the local valley
news letter which would be a very good suggestion, at the church, library, and by direct mail.
Direct mail is probably not an option for the county to use simply because of the cost involved
if this method was used on a county-wide basis.

Regarding the Vision Dixie Planning Project, about 1/4 of the respondents indicated that they
attended the meeting held in this area. About twice this many residents did not participate in
the study. From those who did participate, a number of suggestions were made in the
statistical review of some things that they would like to see happen.

The final question in the questionnaire was to indicate any other things that should be
considered relative to the New Harmony Valley area. These are also listed in the statistical
summary. Some of these items have been discussed in this section of the study. Others may
be identified in the General Plan report.




                                                 204
                              KOLOB AREA GENERAL PLAN
                                  2010 - 2011

Introduction:

In 2010 Washington County undertook the development of a General Plan for each of the
thirteen unincorporated community areas in Washington County. The Kolob area of the county
is one of the unincorporated areas containing many dwelling units even though there are
currently no year-around residents of the area.

The Kolob mountain portion of the county provides summer residences for many residents of the
county as well as for many of the residents of southern Nevada, including Clark County and the
Las Vegas area. During the summer months, the Kolob area of the county has many residents at
any particular point in time. Kolob is identified as a viable part of Washington County, and has
therefore been identified as one of the unincorporated areas of the county where a plan should be
prepared.

This part of the county has developed over a long period of time and has always seemed to be
slightly dis-organized. This may be because the development has been scattered over a large
distance without much unity between the various developments that have taken place.

Geography and Topography:

Kolob is located in the northeast corner of Washington County. The area comprises some
59,003 acres, or 92.2 square miles of the county. Kolob represents the largest single block of
private land in the county.

The elevation of the Kolob area is approximately 8,000 feet above sea level. The area is
bounded by Iron County to the north, Kane County to the East and Zion National Park to the
south and west. The major access to Kolob is from a roadway from the town of Virgin along
State Highway 9. This road traverses some parcels of private land, and a large portion of the
National Park, essentially terminating at the Kolob Reservoir which is located near the southern
part of the valley.

At 8,000 feet elevation, Kolob definitely has a four season climate. In fact, the winter season is
rather long. The main road to Kolob is closed by the National Park at the north end of the Park
boundary when the snow season begins and is not opened again until late spring. Snowfall at
Kolob is often eight to ten feet deep. The only access during the winter months is by
snowmobile.

At least one development made an effort to stay open year-around one winter, but has since
closed during the winter and early spring months. No one makes the area their home on a year
around basis. This makes Kolob a somewhat isolated area as a part of Washington County
which is known for mild winters and warm winter temperatures.


                                                205
Historical Background:

Washington County was first settled in 1852 with the construction of a fort in the Harmony
Valley. The original county seat of the county was at Fort Harmony near the Iron County line.
Later, development spread to the southern valleys of the county and St. George became the
eventual county seat. The eastern part of the county was originally in the western part of what is
now Kane County. The lower valleys of the county were settled for the purpose of growing
cotton during the years of the Civil War when cotton products were not available in the Utah
area. The first settlements included Swiss settlers in the Santa Clara area and other settlers in the
area of Washington City. The original cotton mill, built to process cotton products is still located
in the City of Washington.
Early settlement of the county was closely tied to the Agricultural industry and many of the early
settlers were involved in the livestock business. There were several large herds of livestock and
sheep in the early days of the county. The search for grazing land for these animals during the
summer months led to the acquisition of land holdings in the Kolob area many years before Zion
National Park was created.

At least one of these livestock producers tells that they could winter their herd in what is now
part of the City of Hurricane, and trail their animals in the summer to Kolob without ever leaving
their own land. They are still among the large land holders in the Kolob area that still graze
livestock there during the summer months.

Land Use:

Open Space Development:

Open space, livestock grazing, and wilderness areas

The majority of the Kolob area is undeveloped. In the county it is classed as undeveloped open
space. While much of the area is not developed in any urban manner, it is used for livestock
grazing. The advantage in the Kolob area for livestock grazing, as opposed grazing in other parts
of the county where the land is managed by a Federal agency, is the fact that it is nearly all
privately owned land. This means that the Federal Government cannot continue to cut back on
the number of animals that can be grazed on an individual property. It is up to the land owner to
manage grazing to protect the capability of the land to continue grazing. The General Plan
supports livestock grazing in Washington County and recommends that this practice be
encouraged to continue in the Kolob area.

When the 2009 Washington County Land Bill was approved by Congress and the President,
much of the existing BLM land in the Kolob area was included as wilderness area as was most of
Zion National Park. In the entire county there were fifteen wilderness areas that were identified
and approved by Congress. Of these fifteen wilderness areas, six are located in the Kolob area.

A complete detail of each of the wilderness areas is found in Appendix I of the County General
Plan adopted in October, 2010. In this section of the General Plan, only those wilderness areas

                                                206
in Kolob are identified, and only a minimum amount of information will be repeated in this
section of the Plan.

The wilderness areas found in the Kolob area are listed as follows:

                                   Table I
                           Wilderness areas in Kolob
                Bear Trap Canyon                  40 acres
                Deep Creek                      3,284 acres
                Deep Creek North                4,062 acres
                Goose Creek Canyon                98 acres
                LaVerkin Creek Canyon            445 acres
                Taylor Creek                      32 acres

                             Total Acres:              7,561

These wilderness areas combined amount to about 12.8 percent of the total amount of land
identified as the Kolob area of Washington County. In addition to these areas having been
identified as wilderness in the 2009 Wilderness Bill, the streams that flow through each
wilderness area are identified as wild and scenic rivers. The only wild and scenic rivers that
have been identified in the State of Utah are currently found in Washington County. There are
34 stream segments that were named in the Wilderness Bill of 2009 as wild and scenic rivers.
The large segments are the Virgin River flowing through Zion National Park both from the North
Fork of the Virgin River, and the East Fork of the Virgin River are named as wild and scenic
river segments. Some of the other segments are those flowing through the six wilderness areas
identified in the Kolob area of the county.

Bear Trap Canyon, containing 40 acres, is located adjacent to Zion National Park on one side,
and by private land on the other three sides. It does contain wilderness characteristics, but does
not contain the 5,000 acres required for a wilderness area. The deep canyon is mostly
inaccessible from the private land or from inside the Park.

The Deep Creek wilderness is located in northeastern Washington County. It is adjacent to Zion
National Park on the south, to Kane County on the east, to additional wilderness to the north, and
to private land on the west. This area contains 3,284 acres.

Deep Creek contains an impressive canyon of Navajo Sandstone which dominates much of the
area. In places, the canyon rim rises 2,000 feet above the creek bottom. Access to the canyon is
from non BLM lands which are privately owned. It does contain wilderness characteristics
which, except for size, do meet wilderness qualifications.

Deep Creek North is separated from the Deep Creek wilderness area by an east-west motorized
trail that runs between the two wilderness areas. Deep Creek North contains 4,062 acres. This
wilderness area was deleted by the BLM as a wilderness study area, but it was added back in by
Congressional action without any further public input.
                                                207
Deep Creek North is similar in many ways to Deep Creek south. It is essentially surrounded by
private land making access difficult. One reason that the BLM deleted this wilderness study area
from further consideration was the evidence of man that can be seen from within the wilderness
and the inaccessibility by the general public without trespassing on private property.

Goose Creek Canyon is adjacent to Zion National Park on the south and to private land on the
other three sides. Goose Creek Canyon contains 98 acres. This parcel is isolated from other
BLM lands. The canyon rims are 2000 feet above the canyon floor. The only access to the
canyon is through Zion National Park. Goose Creek Canyon does contain wilderness
characteristics but does not contain sufficient acres to qualify, by itself, as a wilderness area.

LaVerkin Creek Canyon is one of the larger of the Kolob wilderness areas and contains 445
acres. It is bounded by Zion National Park on the south and by private land on the other sides.
It contains 1.5 miles of LaVerkin Creek and a very small part of the Bear Trap Canyon drainage.
It is basically an "L" shaped wilderness area. The area is in a natural condition and offers
opportunity for hiking, back packing, horseback riding and photography. Along with the
National Park, it does offer opportunities for solitude through its entire area.

Taylor Creek Canyon is the smallest of the Kolob wilderness areas. It contains only 32 acres.
The area is dominated by rugged, barren slick rock terrain found at the head of a deep drainage,
the middle fork of Taylor Creek. The majority of the canyon is within the National Park that is
adjacent to Taylor Creek Canyon. High cliffs prohibit access from this wilderness area into Zion
National Park. It has natural qualities and other wilderness characteristics, but it lacks the size
requirement normally expected for wilderness areas as do all of the other Kolob wilderness
designations.

Residential Development:

Residential development did not begin to take place until 1961 when the first subdivision plat
was recorded. There were scattered livestock management cabins scattered throughout the area
in early years, but no residential subdivisions were recorded prior to 1961.

Following is a list of the subdivisions that have been recorded in the Kolob area along with the
number of lots in each subdivision. Many of these developments have been developed in phases
with the date of the first phase being listed.



                                            Table II.
                      Subdivisions, # of lots, acres and date of recording
         1. Bastion Woodlands                 1 lot       5.00 acres       10-31-88
         2. Graceful Acres                    96 lots    192.77 acres      06-30-72
         3. Home Valley Park                  29 lots    193.46 acres      04-13-70
         4. Kolob Acres                       26 lots    unknown           09-16-61

                                                 208
        5. Kolob Grandview                    10 lots    unknown           not recorded
        6. Kolob Highlands                    127 lots   237. 05 acres     02-16-71

        7. Kolob Pines                        48 lots    unknown           10-21-71
        8. Kolob Terrace                      37 lots    unknown           09-12-65
        9. Kolob Woods                        24 lots    15.22 acres       03-04-70
        10. Owen Wrights sub.                 27 lots    70.16 acres       04-13-72
        11. Peaceful Acres                    93 lots    59.30 acres       04-70-71
        12. Terrace Drive                     39 lots    12.6 acres        07-27-87
        13. Whispering Pines                  84 lots    117.57 acres      08-21-09
        14. Woodland Retreat                  48 lots    unknown           09-04-62
        15. Woody Albion                      1 lot      3.00 acres        05-05-08
        16. Zion Panorama                     91 lots    unknown           09-16-74
        17. Shady Acres metes & bounds        26 lots    unknown           unrecorded
        18. Spendlove metes & bounds          8 lots     unknown           unrecorded
        19. Blue Springs
        20. Kolob Mountain Ranch


The earliest subdivision on Kolob took place in 1961. A total of two subdivisions were recorded
in the 1960's. Seven more subdivisions were recorded in the 1970'  s. These seven subdivisions
were the most of any ten year period of time. Two subdivisions were developed in the 1980'   s,
and no subdivisions were recorded in the 1990'  s. There have been two additional subdivisions
recorded since the turn of the century in 2008 and 2009 respectively. Some early acres are not
shown because they were not shown on the plat that was recorded.

Some lots have been approved by metes and bounds in the form of a subdivision, and there are a
number of individual parcels scattered around the Kolob area that started out as cabins used for
the management of livestock grazing in the area.

Each of these residential developments is discussed briefly as follows:

1.     Kolob Acres - is a 26 lot subdivision that was recorded 09-16-61. This subdivision is
       located just east of the main road coming from Zion Park to the Reservoir in what could
       now be considered to be the "center" of the Kolob community.

       In 1961 there was no subdivision ordinance in Washington County. The first subdivision
       ordinance in the county was adopted about 1968. No particular improvements were
       required in 1961. Roadways were either shale or dirt, and water was not a required part
       of any subdivision.

       The Kolob Acres subdivision today contains about 17 dwellings. All homes in the Kolob
       area are summer homes. There are no permanent residents in the Kolob area. All
       residents and residential dwellings are summer homes only. The Only access to the area
       in the winter months is via snowmobile.
                                               209
2.   Kolob Grandview - is a 10 lot division of lots located on the south of, and immediately
     adjacent to, the Kolob acres subdivision that was recorded in 1961. For whatever reason,
     the lots in Kolob Grandview were sold without ever recording a subdivision plat.
     Possibly the developer was aware that the county did not have a subdivision ordinance
     and therefore decided to simply sell the lots without a plat being recorded.

     These lots were sold prior to the first subdivision ordinance being adopted in about 1968,
     and are known to have been in existence prior to 1966. There are approximately 5
     dwellings in the Kolob Grandview area.

3.   Kolob Terrace.- subdivision was recorded in two phases recorded in 9-12-65 and 8-16-66
     respectively. Both phases of this development containing 37 total lots were recorded
     prior to the county having a subdivision ordinance. These early subdivisions started a
     pattern of having private roads in all subdivisions in the Kolob area. As a result, these
     roads were not well developed or maintained, but being private, they are not maintained
     by the county. In this subdivision there are approximately 14 homes at the present time.
     Kolob Terrace is located in the same vicinity as the two projects listed previously, but is
     located to the west of the Kolob road. This subdivision, as with most of the early
     developments, was recorded as a "dry" subdivision, meaning that no water source was
     required, and no water was provided.

4.   Kolob Woods - was developed by the same developer who developed Kolob Terrace.
     This subdivision is located north of Kolob Terrace. Kolob Woods has 24 lots with about
     14 dwelling currently having been built.

     The construction standards in this subdivision were about the same as the other early
     subdivisions even though the county had adopted a subdivision ordinance prior to this
     plat being recorded. In the original subdivision ordinance was a statement that all roads
     in the Kolob area would be private roads, and were specifically declined to be accepted
     for maintenance by the county. This subdivision was recorded March 4, 1970, soon after
     the adoption of a subdivision ordinance by the county.

5.   Home Valley Park - was recorded as a subdivision on April 13, 1970, shortly after the
     Kolob Woods subdivision was recorded. The construction standards were much the same
     as for the prior subdivisions. In this case, the subdivision was located along the road
     leading to the Lava Point fire lookout that is inside of Zion National Park; therefore the
     road has been maintained better than most of the typical subdivision roads. Home Valley
     Park contains 29 lots and currently has 11 dwellings constructed in the subdivision.

6.   Kolob Highlands - was originally developed with 127 lots and is located along the
     northern edge of Washington County, and adjacent to the Iron County Line. In recent
     years most of the subdivision has been vacated and returned to open space. There are still
     25 lots in the recorded subdivision and 5 homes have been constructed there. Kolob
     Highlands was recorded as a dry subdivision with private and minimally improved roads.

                                             210
7.    Peaceful Acres - is a 93 lot development located adjacent to the north of the Terrace
      Drive subdivision. It filled much of the "gap" between Terrace Drive and Kolob Wood
      subdivisions. This subdivision was recorded on April 20, 1971. Since its original
      development, some of the lots in this subdivision have been provided with some water
      connections from water in adjacent subdivisions or other housing projects. There are 19
      dwellings in the subdivision.

8.    Kolob Pines - is a subdivision located a significant distance to the east of the cluster of
      subdivisions located adjacent to the Kolob Reservoir Road. The subdivision contains 47
      lots and currently has about 17 dwellings in the subdivision. It was recorded in two
      phases on 10-21-71 and 10-3-72. The roadways are also private.

9.    Woodland Retreat - is a subdivision located in the center part of the Kolob area just a
      short distance east of the Kolob Reservoir Road. The development includes 48 lots and
      there are currently about 28 dwellings constructed in the subdivision. Woodland Retreat
      was recorded on September 25, 1962. There was no county subdivision ordinance in
      1962.

10.   Owen Wright subdivision - is located north of the "center" of the Kolob area
      development, immediately adjacent to the Kolob Reservoir Road. The Kolob Reservoir
      Road is the main roadway coming from the Town of Virgin, north through Zion National
      Park to the Kolob Reservoir. It is paved and dedicated through the Kolob area between
      the Park Boundary the Reservoir.

      Owen Wright developed this subdivision and recorded the county approved plat on April
      13, 1972. The subdivision contains 27 lots and 9 residential dwellings have currently
      been constructed there. Other conditions in the subdivision are much the same as in all
      those subdivisions previously identified herein.

11.   Graceful Acres - is another subdivision located adjacent to the Kolob Pines subdivision
      and contains 96 lots. It was recorded June 30, 1972. The subdivision is much like the
      other early subdivisions in the area. The roads are sometimes difficult to traverse
      because of their location and the manner in which they were constructed. There are
      currently only two dwellings in the subdivision.

12.   Terrace Drive - is a 39 lot subdivision located east of Peaceful Acres and has access from
      the Kolob Reservoir Road. There are currently 14 dwelling units in the subdivision. This
      subdivision is one that has provided some water connections to the subdivisions located
      to the west of this project. Terrace Drive is one of the few subdivisions that have water
      available to the lots in the subdivision. Terrace Drive was recorded July 27, 1987, and is
      therefore one of the more recent subdivisions in the Kolob area.

13.   Zion Panorama - is a subdivision located in the far eastern part of the Kolob area not too
      far from the Kane County line. This subdivision was recorded in several phases
      beginning with phase 1 on September 16, 1974. The subdivision contains 91 lots. There

                                              211
      are about 34 dwelling units currently constructed in Zion Panorama. This development is
      further away from the "center" of the valley than any other of the Kolob subdivisions.

14.   Bastion Woodlands - is a five acre, one lot subdivision recorded on October 32, 1988. It
      is located in the area of Kolob Pines, and Graceful Acres. It contains one dwelling unit
      which was the purpose for which the development was created.

15.   Woody Albion - is a three acre, one lot subdivision located adjacent to the Bastion
      Woodlands one lot subdivision. It contains one residential dwelling which was the
      purpose for which the one lot subdivision was created.

16.   Whispering Pines - contains 84 lots and is located along the Kolob Reservoir Road on the
      west side of the main road. Whispering Pines is a new subdivision that was recorded on
      August 21, 2009. The subdivision currently contains one dwelling. This subdivision
      continues the county policy of not accepting subdivision roads in the county for county
      maintenance. It is also the only subdivision that contains paved roads. Paved roads are
      now required in all subdivisions in Washington County no matter what part of the county
      they are located in.

17.   Shady Acres - is an area located between Kolob Woods and Peaceful acres. It is a group
      of lots that were sold off by metes and bounds without ever being included as part of a
      subdivision plat. There are 26 lots in this area and there have been approximately 11
      dwellings built in this area.

18    Spendlove metes and bounds - includes a group of about 18 lots that were approved by
      metes and bounds without recording a subdivision plat. There appears to be 8 dwelling
      units built in this area. This development is located south of Kolob Highlands and east of
      the Kolob Reservoir. There are no other subdivisions located in the general area of this
      group of properties.

19.   Blue Springs Recreation Area - is a planned development that was created in the early
      1960' s before the county had either a subdivision ordinance or a planned development
      zone in the zoning ordinance. The site contains a reservoir covering 35 acres of land.
      There are 30 building lots in the project of 1 acre each. An additional 12 to 14 building
      sites have been identified since the original plan was prepared. These additional sites that
      have been sold are no longer part of the recreation area. The Blue Springs Recreation
      Area is available for use by owners and guests of owners.

20.   Kolob Mountain Ranch - was a residential lodge development that commenced with the
      first phase being developed in 1988. Phase I contained 12 rooms with two other phased
      being added later on. The intent of the project was to have residential facilities available
      for rent, or ownership on a time share basis. These facilities were clustered together in
      close proximity on a 600 acre parcel of land. The project also included a water system
      with a large storage facility. Some water was also provided to some adjacent lots that
      were originally approved as dry subdivision lots.

                                               212
       The intent of the development was to allow residents and guests to spend time in a
       clustered setting with common indoor areas, and to have outdoor access to most of the
       600 acre site for outdoor recreation including hiking, horseback riding, etc., without ever
       leaving the 600 acre commonly owned property.

       At one point, an effort was made to keep the resort open through the winter months. This
       proved to be difficult to do because of the difficulty of access, the lack of snow removal
       on roadways, and the isolation of the lodge during winter months. During the summer
       season, it is a desirable location.

21.    Scattered parcels - There are other scattered dwelling units on parcels of privately owned
       land that exist in various areas of Kolob. Because of the size of most of the many
       privately owned parcels of land, permits can be obtained for dwellings on this land
       without the need for recording a specific subdivision plat.

There are a total of about 230 dwellings in subdivisions and metes and bounds projects, along
with about 30 to 40 scattered parcels throughout the area. The total number of dwellings in the
Kolob area is about 260 to 270 dwellings. The summer population in the area could be as high
as about 800 persons on any given day, particularly during holiday week-ends.

Commercial Development:

There is a very minimal amount of commercial development on Kolob. Years ago, a restaurant
was constructed just off of the Reservoir Road. It was not successful and closed down after a
short run. Following this facility, a store occupied the building for a time, and then it also went
out of business.

Some additional land along the reservoir road has been zoned for commercial development when
a request was made to establish a commercial business in a dwelling that is located along the
road. None of these efforts was successful.

Most recently, the original restaurant business has again been remodeled and opened for a
commercial store business. The General Plan supports commercial development in the Kolob
area, and the areas presently zone for commercial use are in the proper location to fill that need
as it expands. The problem at this time with commercial development in the Kolob area is the
fact that commercial development is dependent upon a perceived need of the public for
commercial business. That need may be difficult to identify in an area that is limited to just a
few months each year in which to bring a return on the investment.

Recreation:

One reason for the development in Kolob is for the purpose of providing summer season
recreation opportunities for those having property and homes there. The location, low density
pattern of development, fresh air, cool summer temperatures, and a beautiful night sky are all
reasons for the success of residential development projects in this area. Those purposes will

                                                213
continue to grow and develop in coming years, and certainly there is sufficient space for more
development to take place.

The major recreation facility in the area is the Kolob Reservoir and the land surrounding the
reservoir. Originally, the reservoir was created for water storage for agricultural purposes in the
lower valleys of Washington County. Recreational use of the site was not part of the original
proposal. Iron County (Cedar City) also maintained an interest in the reservoir and later
determined that it was not economically feasible to transport the water from the reservoir into
Iron County.

Following the pull-out from Iron County, the Hurricane Irrigation Company, originally
developers of the reservoir, turned the site over to the Washington County Water Conservancy
District for management and maintenance purposes.

Early on, the Conservancy District organized a committed to study the future use of the reservoir
and to oversee the preparation of a long range plan for future development. This study was
carried out during the summer of 1996 and completed in November of that year. The main need
identified in the report was to provide sanitary facilities for use by those using the reservoir for
recreation purposes.

Kolob Reservoir had become a popular fishing site with help from the State in stocking the
reservoir with fish. During some periods of time it has been a "catch and release" reservoir as
opposed to keeping the fish that were caught. An additional facility constructed early on by the
District was a boat ramp to allow fishing craft to be launched into the reservoir in one place as
opposed to random launching around the reservoir. These early needs have been completed.

The original plan for the reservoir called for the development of a number of camp sites at
various points around the reservoir. Ninety two sites were identified, staked out on the ground,
and surveyed into a development plan. There were an additional fifteen sites identified as day-
use only sites. There were also two sites at each end of the reservoir that were identified as
group use areas for use by larger day-use groups for various activities.

The General Plan recommends that this plan be reviewed by the Water Conservancy District, and
that it be updated, and included in the annual Conservancy District budget for future
implementation. This recreation area is an important summer recreation area for the entire
Kolob area.

Another summer recreation facility in the Kolob area is a Boy Scout camp developed and
maintained by the Greater Las Vegas, Nevada, Council of the Boy Scouts of America. It
receives extensive use by scouts and scout leaders from the Las Vegas Valley, and surrounding
Nevada areas. .

A Girl Scout camp is also located in the Kolob area. It provides summer camping opportunities
for young girls from the Las Vegas, Nevada area. These scout camps are not open for public
use, but they do provide for summer activities for many youth from the Southern Nevada area
which are not available in the southern Nevada desert.
                                                214
Public Services:

There are a number of public services that are provided in the Kolob area. These are identified
and discussed briefly as follows:

1.     Electricity - At this time there is no electric service available in any of the subdivisions
       in the Kolob area. Electrical service has been proposed to be extended from the
       Kanarraville area to Kolob, but has not been realized up to this time. The General Plan
       recommends that efforts continue to bring electrical power to Kolob from whatever
       direction appears to be the most economical.

2.     Natural Gas - There is no natural gas service to the Kolob area. It is less likely than
       electrical service to be extended here either from Iron County, or from the lower valleys
       of Washington County. With only seasonal use of the homes in the area, it is not
       currently economically feasible for natural gas to come here.

3.     Water - Historically water has been limited in most of the Kolob subdivisions. A few
       subdivisions have been able to develop water for their projects. Most of the early
       subdivisions were approved as "dry" subdivisions. Some of these areas have since been
       able to develop water.

       One of the main reasons for a slowdown in development in the last 20 years has been the
       requirement by the county that there will be no more dry subdivisions approved
       anywhere in Washington County which included Kolob. The Water Conservancy District
       has just completed the construction of a water line to bring water from Crystal Creek to
       the Kolob Reservoir. The construction of this line has also made it possible to provide
       culinary water to some locations in the Kolob area. The Water Conservancy District did
       provide the culinary water for the Whispering Pine Subdivision recorded in 2009, as well
       as some other projects located along the water line. Having culinary water available for
       development will go a long way to encourage additional residential development here
       which could not have happened without a reliable source of culinary water.

4.     Sewage Disposal - The Kolob area is currently served by individual septic tanks.
       Washington County has recently approved an agreement with the Water Conservancy
       District to provide for approving waste disposal systems in the western part of the county
       and in the Kolob area. The District will make sure that no development is approved that
       would not protect the water in the Kolob reservoir.

       The State Department of Environmental Quality has, in recent years, approved alternate
       methods of waste disposal that could be approved by the District for use in developments
       in Kolob subdivisions. The General Plan feels that with the Water District having
       oversight for disposal in the Kolob area that the area will be well served in the future.

5.     Solid Waste - Solid waste collection is provided by the county solid waste district. The
       supervising board is made up of one representative from the county and one member
                                                215
     from each incorporated city in the county. This organization contracts with a provider to
     take care of solid waste collection in the county.

     Currently, there is a collection station located in the Virgin area on the Kolob road to
     allow residents of Kolob to deposit their waste materials as they leave the county road on
     their way from Kolob to their homes elsewhere.

     As long as there is no provision for year round habitation at Kolob, this system seems to
     work as well as any that has been devised. It would be very difficult for the large
     collection trucks to make the trip to Kolob, not counting how they would be able so
     service the scattered subdivisions and other homes, not to count the difficulty in
     traversing some of the private roads in order to collect waste materials. The General Plan
     supports this method of collection until such time as there are full-time residents, the
     private roads are improved and dedicated, and the mountain area is accessible throughout
     the entire year.

6.   Building Inspection - is provided by the Washington County Building Department.
     Inspectors travel to Kolob as necessary to take care of new construction or remodeling
     that takes place during the summer season. The county also allows for the use of travel
     trailers during a limited period of time in the summer. The Building Department also
     oversees the use of travel trailers.

7.   Communications - Telephone service is available in the Kolob area to subdivisions where
     lines have been installed. The Beehive Telephone Company provides telephone service
     to the Kolob area. Line can be installed in subdivisions where service is desired. There
     is some cell phone service available in the Kolob area, but this service varies from place
     to place. Some subdivisions or parts of subdivisions, find cell service and many others
     nearby do not. If a cell tower was provided in the area, then it would depend upon which
     service was represented on the tower as to whether or not a person would have service.
     The General Plan would expect that at some point of time, the county will receive a
     request to construct a cell tower in the area which could provide service for cell phones.
     The county required that at least three networks be allowed to locate on a given cell
     tower.

8.   Flood Control - There are many washes, canyons, and tributaries to the Virgin River that
     have their origin in the Kolob area. There is no specific flood control plans or districts
     that have been created for flood control. One of the largest problems in the Kolob areas
     is to be hiking in one of these slot or side canyons when a storm takes place which could
     provide for dangerous flooding for people in those areas,

9.   Roads - There is only one major road to and from Kolob. The major road leaves State
     Highway 9 in the center of the Town of Virgin and goes from there northward through a
     portion of Zion National Park and is dedicated for a part of the northern end of the road
     as it approaches the Kolob Reservoir.


                                             216
      This road is closed at the Park boundary during the winter months because of the
      difficulty in keeping it open with the large amount of snow that falls there. The county
      should work closely with Zion National Park in making improvements to the road
      through the National Park to the point of providing assistance if necessary to make the
      roadway a safe route to travel to and from Kolob. This roadway is paved from Virgin
      Town to the Kolob Reservoir.

      During the summer months there is a county road by right of use that goes north and east
      from the reservoir across the summit of the mountain and connects with State Highway
      14 in Cedar Canyon. This road is not open in the winter. Another road leaves this
      roadway and travels down Kanarraville Canyon to the town of Kanarraville, also located
      in Iron County. These roads are not paved and are made for seasonal use only. Even
      during the summer months, summer storms could provide problems in traveling these
      roads.

      There is a private easement located between the two Deep Creek wilderness areas that
      would provide access to the east side of Zion National Park, and would connect to a
      roadway on the east side of the Park. A county road between the two wilderness areas
      would be a difficult road to construct.


      All of the roads in the subdivisions are private roads. In order for the county to consider
      taking them over for maintenance, they would have to be brought to current county
      standards and dedicated to the county. While the requirements for improvement have
      been improved substantially in recent years, the newer roads are still considered to be
      private roads.

      Winters in Kolob are not that much different than they are in areas such as Duck Creek
      along State Highway 14 going over Cedar Mountain. In which case, the highway is a
      well traveled road and connects Iron County to Kane and Garfield Counties. It is a State
      Highway and is maintained by the Utah Department of Transportation.

      Similar development in the Kolob area could some time necessitate keeping year around
      access similar to the Duck Creek area. The General Plan projects that this will happen at
      some time in the future. However, it will not be soon.

10.   Fire Protection - The Kolob area receives fire protection through the Hurricane Valley
      Fire District. There some discussion about dissolving this District. Before it was created,
      Hurricane City provided fire protection to Kolob. If the District is eliminated, it can be
      assumed that Hurricane City will once again provide fire protection. Right now it is not
      feasible to create a Kolob Fire District. As with roads, that could sometime take place,
      but not anytime soon.

11.   Public Safety - Police protection in the valley is provided by the Washington County
      Sheriff's Office. Kolob will be a part of the county for a long time to come. Therefore,
      police protection will be provided by the county.
                                              217
12.    Cemetery - There a recognized cemetery located in the Kolob area. It is near the main
       county road leading to the reservoir. It is available for use by anyone in the area desiring
       burial at Kolob. It is privately owned and maintained, but it is available for use by the
       public.

13.    Incorporation - is one consideration for each of the unincorporated communities in the
       county. The State Law indicates that prior to any consideration there must be a minimum
       of 100 registered voters living in the area.

       There are no registered voters living in the Kolob area who live there as their permanent
       resident and vote in a precinct there for each election. Obviously, Kolob, while
       unincorporated, does not fall into that category at the present time. It may happen some
       time, but not anytime soon.

Summary:

Kolob is a "high mountain" area in the north-east corner of Washington County. Elevations
range above 8,000 feet. The area has several hundred summer homes located in subdivision and
scattered throughout the area. Many of the early subdivisions were recorded without any source
of culinary water. Some of these subdivisions have been able to develop water since their
recordation.

One of the features of Kolob was the construction of the Kolob Reservoir which provides some
camping and fishing opportunities in the Kolob area. There are still further improvements that
could be made to improve this resource. The only dedicated road is the main road leading to the
reservoir. There are roads by right-of-use that continue from the reservoir on into Iron County
and connect with State Highway 14 east of Cedar City.

The main road to and from the Kolob area begins in the Town of Virgin and passes through a
large part of Zion National Park. This is the only paved road, and nearly all of the other roads in
Kolob are private. Most of them are not well maintained. Only the most recent subdivision in
the area has been developed with paved roads.

The use of the area is for seasonal use only because of the main road being closed at the Park
boundary, and the heavy amounts of snow that occur here in winter months. The area may some
time be used for year-around living, but that use would appear to be along way off before it
happens. In the meantime, Kolob will continue as a beautiful and desirable are for summer
recreation use by the land owners there.




                                                218
                                 AN ADDENDUM TO THE
                            THE PINE VALLEY GENERAL PLAN
                                       2010-2011

The Pine Valley General Plan was adopted in 2003. A new community questionnaire was
completed in 2008. The county submitted another community survey in 2010. In reviewing
each of these three surveys, the consultant has determined that for all essential purposes, there
are no significant changes in the three surveys.

In reviewing the 2003 General Plan, it has also been determined that relative to the various land
use issues, the goals and policies stated in the 2003 plan are still relevant to the Pine Valley
Community. Therefore this addendum updates the statistical data that has changed since 2003.
It does not attempt to re-write or change the body of the General Plan in any significant way.

A few updated recommendations will be identified in this addendum for consideration, but there
is no reason to change the direction of the 2003 General Plan in any significant manner.

The 2003 plan identified 401 single family dwellings in the Pine Valley Community. In 2011
this figure has been updated to 474 dwellings, or an increase of 73 dwellings. Table I shows the
number of permits issued each of the past 10 years.

                                         Table I.
                           No. of building permits 2001 - 2010
                                2001                 11
                                2002                  6
                                2003                  3
                                2004                  6
                                2005                 11
                                2006                 11
                                2007                 10
                                2008                  9
                                2009                  5
                                2010                  1
                                   Total:            73

The average number of new permits each year is an average of 7.3. The total number of homes
is presently estimated at 474. Using an average of 3.0 persons per dwelling unit, the current
summer population of Pine Valley is in the range of 1,400 maximum numbers of residents.

Most of these dwellings are occupied by part-time (summer) residents. The County Assessors
Office records identify 68 primary dwellings. Using the same family size of 3.0 residents per
dwelling, the full-time equivalent number of residents would be in the range of 200 permanent
residents.



                                                219
According to the 2003 plan, there are still vacant, un-subdivided parcels of private land that
could be developed. The 2003 plan does estimate a build-out total for the valley. Using the
same percentage of full-time residents as there are now, it would be possible to estimate the
number of full-time residents that would be full-time in Pine Valley at the time of build out. The
number of full-time as opposed to part-time residents could be expected to increase as a
percentage total residents. Not knowing how many lots could be added from vacant parcels of
property, there is no effort at this time to project the build out population separate from the
projections of the 2003 plan.

Land Use:

Agriculture / Open Space:

The 2003 policy of preserving the open space pasture land in the valley is still a valid policy.
Efforts have been made to place much of this land in a conservation easement which would keep
it as open space long into the future. Efforts should continue to effectuate this policy for all of
the pasture land in the middle of the valley.

High water table precludes subdivision of this land except for the fact that drain lines could be
installed to increase the subdivide amount of land. The 2003 General Plan recommends that no
development take place in the meadows beyond a depth of one block north of the main east-west
road through the community. The General Plan still supports this one block deep policy. There
may be other means of protecting this meadow land in addition to conservation easements on the
land. If there are, these other means should be pursued. The conservation route is one method
that would allow this land to be protected as permanent open space and still provide
compensation to the property owners for not developing the land into subdivisions.

Residential Development:

The General Plan does not recommend any significant changes to the Residential section of the
current Plan. Without a sewer system in Pine Valley, no multiple family dwellings can be
accommodated. There is still room for additional residential development of the same character
as currently exists.

Vision Dixie Plan:

1.     Plan regionally; implement locally - The General Plan for Pine Valley is a local plan for
       the residents of this community. It is also recommended to be adopted as a part of the
       Washington County General Plan.

2.     Maintain air and water quality and conserve water - Air and water quality is very
       important to the home owners in Pine Valley. Air quality in Pine Valley is probably as
       good, or better, than any other area of the county. One of the main attractions to this area
       is the clean air and good quality of water. Water conservation is also important to the
       residents. Much of the landscaping is of a natural variety. The meadow areas are sub-

                                                220
     watered by the Santa Clara River as it passes through the valley. The meadow area is one
     of the main reasons that people are attracted to this area.

3.   Guard our signature landscapes - Pine Valley as a community has some of the most
     signature landscapes anywhere in the county. The views in all directions are beautiful
     and should be protected. The open space in the valley that is meadow land should and is
     being protected. The policies of the community indicate that he land surrounding the
     valley, National Forest Land, should not be disposed of or any type of development, but
     should be protected as open space. Much of the and to the south and east of the valley is
     currently in a wilderness classification.

4.   Provide connected natural recreation areas and open spaces - This is covered by the
     previous item in protection of the view shed surrounding the valley. Trails, camp
     grounds and open space land surrounds the valley and should be protected and
     maintained.

5.   Build a balanced transportation system - there is no public transportation system in Pine
     Valley, and a public system is not likely to come here anytime soon. The policies of the
     community call for improvement of existing access routes which is probably the best
     policy for the community to support at this time. Public transportation may come, but not
     during the period of the 2011 General Plan for Pine Valley.

6.   Get centered by focusing on growth in walk-able mixed use centers – The residents of
     Pine Valley are opposed to the creation of a mixed use commercial center in the valley.
     There is a commercial center of sorts in the area of the fire station, post office, restaurant,
     and motel facility. A small grocery store is currently zoned and could reopen under
     current ordinance. This center is not centered for walk-ability but with the residential
     development already existing from the Ranchos area to the campground on the east, is
     too far to expect people to walk. There is no where in the valley where such a centrally
     located center could be identified.

7.   Direct growth inward - This policy is being followed in Pine Valley. The community is
     an island of private land surrounded by public land. All development in the valley falls
     within this private area and does not suggest the release of any public land surrounding
     the valley for development.

8.   Provide a wide range of housing types - This policy works well in the urbanized portions
     of the county where sewer service is available. In Pine Valley, with a high water table,
     the current zoning reflects the maximum density that can be accommodated in the valley.
     Multi-family residential dwellings could not be supported in the valley at this time.

9.   Reserve areas for Industry - This is another policy that could be supported in the
     incorporated community areas of the county. Pine Valley is a summer home area. There
     is no significant permanent population to support industrial development, even if there
     were areas where it could be accommodated. Under the current pattern of development,
     there are no areas where industry could be supported in any fashion.
                                               221
10.    Public land conversion - There is no current public land in Pine Valley that is
       classified for disposal. There is none requested by the 2011 General Plan.

Commercial Development:

The residents of the valley, through three surveys over the past eight years, are all in agreement
that there is no desire for additional commercial development in the valley. The General Plan
should note that there was a small commercial general store type business in Pine Valley a few
years ago. The building has not been used commercially for several years but is still zoned as a
commercial site. Therefore, it could once again be revived commercially, or, the zone could be
changed by the current owner to a residential zone.

Public Facilities:

Most of the sections of the 2003 General Plan relative to the various public services would
appear to be viable in the year 2011. The goals and policies would appear to be adequate to
continue well into the future.

Circulation and Transportation:

The goals and policies of the 2003 Plan are still viable in 2011. The one issue in Pine Valley that
does not quite go away is the problem of ATV'   s. A number of the communities in the county
have similar problems, but probably none as much as appears in Pine Valley.

The General Plan has recommended in other communities, that the county would allow each of
the unincorporated areas to develop their own ATV plan and that each community could post
those regulations at the entrance to their community in the event that they are not satisfied with
the current county policy. The 2011 General Plan for Pine Valley would recommend that this
policy be tried in each community were there is concern with the current policy. The General
Plan would recommend that each of the communities that would like to do so develop their own
management plan and that the community be signed accordingly.

Summary and Conclusions:

The Washington County General Plan is in support of the 2003 General Plan for Pine Valley and
recommends that it be included, as it is, in the 2011 General Plan. It is further recommended that
this Addendum be added to the 2003 in order to update some statistical data to the current time.

The citizen survey for 2003 is included in the 2003 Plan. This addendum proposes to add the
two recent surveys as a part of the 2011 Addendum to the Plan, and the combination of these two
documents be adopted by the County Commission as the 2011 General Plan for the Community
of Pine Valley.

Each of the individual Plans prepared for the unincorporated areas of the county include a
summary of the policies of the Vision Dixie study as a part of each Plan. Following is a
                                                222
summary of the Vision Dixie Policies as they apply to the Pine Valley area with comments
regarding each policy as they relate to this community. This review should also be considered as
a part of the 2011 General Plan for the Pine alley Community.



            WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY STATISCIAL SURVEY
                                 FOR
                    THE COMMUNITY OF PINE VALLEY
                               2010-1011

1.     Residency status

       a.     How long have you lived in this area?         16 years average
       b.     Number in family:                              2 member average
       c.     Homeowners:                                   100 % (1 part time owner)
       d.     Land owners only:                             none

2.     Characteristics that you value or that help you choose to live or own property in this area.

       a.     Born or raised in the area                    0%
       b.     Close to family, friends or neighbors         14.2 %
       c.     Close to mountains, etc.                     100.0 %
       d.     Like Open Space                               71.4 %
       e.     Opportunity for horses, etc.                  14.2 %
       f.     Quiet community                               85.7 %
       g.     Recreational opportunities                    28.6 %
       h.     Safe community                                85.7 %
       i.     Small town atmosphere                         85.7 %
       j.     Other reasons

3.     Should the rural atmosphere be preserved?              Yes 100 %
       How should it be done?        Housing, limit business & residents, follow the
       existing plan, zoning, county enforcement of ordinances, no more commercial
       development, leave agricultural land as it is, zone to preserve agriculture and open
       space, stop growth, stop progress

4.     Should farmland be preserved?                      Yes 100 %
       How should it be done?      There is plenty of water and land, don't build into
       farmland, county enforcement of planning and zoning, as long as farmers want to farm

5.     Would you favor developing a system of walking/bicycle trails throughout the
       community,                    Yes 50 %       No 50 %
       Roads and Forest Service trails are adequate


                                               223
6.    Mark on a scale of 1 to 5, your concerns on each of the following: Traffic safety, street
      and road conditions, , unsafe ORV use, and street dedication Most concerned = 5, least
      concerned =1, no problem = 0

      a.     Of-highway vehicles on streets - 5 = 71.4 %, 4 = 14.2 %, 3 = 14.2 %,
      b.     Speed/traffic control - 5 = 57.1 %, 4 = 14.2 %, 3 = 28.6 %
      c.     Road conditions - 0 = 14.2 %, 5 = 14.3 %, 4 = 26.4 %, 3 = 14.2 %,
             2 = 14.2 %
      d.     Unsafe ORV use - 5 = 85.7 %, 3 = 14.2 %
      e.     Road Dedication - 0 = 14.2 %, 5 = 14.2 %, 3 = 14.2 %, 2 = 14.2 %
      f.     Other - No ATV'  s on dead-end roads, dangerous, dedicate streets that
             aren’t, maintained

7.    Desired commercial or industrial business - none needed, none, none, zero, the
      existing commercial is enough, existing commercial struggles

8.    Where should commercial development be located? Central, Veyo, Enterprise,         along
      State Highway 18

9.    Relate your experience with local services as they relate to your area:
      Excellent = 5, Poor = 1, No experience = 0

      a.     Ambulance - 0 = 14.2 %, 5 = 42.8 %, 4 = 42.8 %
      b.     Drinking water service and quality - 5 = 71.4 %, 4 = 14.2 %, 3 = 28.5 %,
             2 = 14.2 %
      c.     Electrical power - 5 = 71.4 %, 4 = 28.5 %, 1 = 14,2 %
      d.     Fire protection - 5 = 42.8 %, 4 = 14.2 %, 2 = 28.5 %
      e.     Garbage collection - 0 = 14.2 %, 4 = 57.1 %, 2 = 28.5 %
      f.     Law Enforcement - 0 = 14.2 %, 5 = 14.2 %, 4 = 14.2 %, 2 = 28.5 %, 1 =
             28.5 %
      g.     Postal Service - 5 = 57.1 %, 4 = 28.5 %, 1 = 14.2 %
      h.     School transportation - 0 = 14.2 %, 3 = 28.5 %, 1 = 14.2 %,
      i.     Telephone service - 5 = 28.5 %, 4 = 57.1 %, 2 = 14.2 %
      j.     Cell phone service - 4 = 14.2 %, 4 = 57.1 %, 2 = 28.5 %
      k.     Other services - electrical maintenance

10.   Should the community consider providing recreation services? Yes 14.2 %
      No      71.4 %
11.   List services that could be provided - walking trails

12.   How can you best be informed about meetings?

      a.     Word of mouth - 85.7 %.
      b.     Posting at the fire station - 71.4 %
      c.     At the store, if existing - 14.2 %
      d.     At the mail boxes - 100.0 %
                                              224
      e.     County web site - 14.2 %
      f.     Other - Announce in church meetings

13.   Did you participate in the Vision Dixie planning program?    Yes 0 No 100. %

14.   If you participated, your comments

15.   Final Comments - Do not have ATV'     s on dead-end streets, people come here because this
      place is one of a kind, don'
                                 t change it, we need more road maintenance in the summer and
      the winter




                                             225
             WASHIINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY SURVEY ANALYSIS
                                  FOR
                     THE COMMUNITY OF PINE VALLEY
                               2010 - 2011

A meeting was held in the community of Pine Valley on August 19, 2010 relative to doing an
update of the existing Pine Valley General Plan. The community of Pine Valley has completed
two previous community surveys. The first was done in 2003 from which the current General
Plan was prepared, and another survey was recently completed in 2008.

Most of those who attended the August 19, 2010 meeting filled out the current survey. Copies
were left in Pine Valley that could be filled out and submitted by others that were not in
attendance at the meeting, and the survey is available on the county web site for any who would
like to submit the questionnaire by that method.

Following is an analysis of the forms that have been received by the county up to the present
time.

1.     Pine Valley is essentially a second home or vacation home community. Of those filling
       out a questionnaire at this time, the average length of those living in at this location is
       about 16 years. There was a time in the past when Pine Valley was a vibrant community
       with a school, and industry. Then, for many years, no one lived year around in Pine
       Valley, In more recent time, the permanent population has increased from one family to
       a much larger number of families living year around at this time.

       Along with the length of time that residents have lived in Pine Valley, the current family
       size listed by respondents to the questionnaire was just two members average. This
       would indicate that many, if not most, of the permanent number of residents at this time
       are retired residents of the community.

2.     No one in response of the survey was born or raised in Pine Valley. That generation is
       now gone. However those living there and others that responded to the questionnaire are
       basically there for the same reasons. These reasons include being close to the mountains,
       the open space of Pine Valley. It is a quiet community (except for the ATV use), it is
       considered to be a safe community to live in, and the people are there to enjoy the small
       town atmosphere that exists in the Pine Valley area.

3.     Ways suggested to preserve the rural atmosphere of Pine Valley included limiting
       business and residential growth. Business can be limited by not rezoning property.
       Growth depends upon the amount of land available for development and the numbers of
       currently vacant building lots. It is easy to limit the other persons development rights,
       but don' t limit mine. In reality the amount of potential and undeveloped residential land
       is really quite limited. Other recommendations included following the existing plan,
       limiting zone changes, and preserve the current agricultural pasture land.


                                               226
4.   All respondents recommend protecting the agricultural land. Protecting the agricultural
     land is easy as long as the owner wants to continue the use of the land. However, should
     they decide to sell the land for development, protection becomes much more difficult.
     The plan will consider alternatives to the typical process of protecting land and will
     suggest possible alternatives.

5.   The respondents were evenly split on whether or not to provide walking or bicycle trails
     in the community. Some suggested that roadways and the forest service provide adequate
     facilities with adding more. It is true that all existing roadways are automatically walking
     areas and bicycle lanes. Whether to develop any others that may be limited to walking or
     bicycling is a split opinion of those providing input on the subject.

6,   On a scale of 0 - 5, list your concerns relative to off-highway vehicles, speed controls,
     road conditions, unsafe ORV use, road dedications, etc.

     Concerns of off-highway vehicles on local streets is a major concern to most residents,
     along with speed control, and unsafe ATV use are the major uses identified as being a
     problem in Pine Valley. This has been an ongoing problem in the valley for many years.
     If all residents, full-time and part-time, are questioned, it would be interesting to see what
     percentage see ATV'     s as big a problem as those filling in the questionnaire feel that it is.
     Inn either event it is a community problem here as well as in other areas of the county
     and needs to be addressed once again as a part of the General Plan.

     No other concerns relative to the use of the roadways in Pine Valley generated any
     significant concern aside from those concerns listed above.

7.   According to the questionnaire, no additional commercial business is needed in addition
     to those already there. Some years ago, there was a small grocery store in the valley for
     several summers. It is no longer in business, but could be proposed again at some future
     time.

8.   As to there commercial land should be located the suggestions included - along State
     Highway 18, Central, Veyo, and Enterprise. Definitely do not locate more commercial
     developments in Pine Valley.

9.   Experience with Public services including Ambulance, drinking water, electricity,
     fire protection, garbage collection, law enforcement, postal service, school
     transportation, telephone service, and cell phone services.

     Several of the public services receive generally high marks from the respondents.
     Those things receiving the highest marks include most of the services that are
     provided within the community including such things as drinking water, electrical
     power, fire protection, postal service, and telephone service.

     Getting passing marks are services such as ambulance, cell phone service, and
     marginally, garbage collection.
                                               227
      Receiving less than satisfactory marks include services such as police protection and
      school transportation. In the county, a community may contract for as much protection as
      they desire to pay for, including 24 hour, 365 day protection.

10.   Should the community provide for recreation activities? The preponderance of
      responses said No, that recreation facilities was an area for the community to get
      involved with.

11.   Walking trails were recommended by those suggesting that recreation activities could be
      provided.

12.   Getting informed about meetings is always a problem in the unincorporated areas of the
      county. Posting at the mail boxes was rated the most successful method of being
      informed, with posting at the fire station, next door to the mail boxes, as the next most
      useful method. The county web site is already in use, but residents are obviously not
      used to using this method.

13.   Participation in the Vision Dixie planning program was listed 100 % as No. That
      participation level is typical with most of the other unincorporated communities in the
      county. Yet, there were many such meetings held out in the unincorporated areas, at
      which there was always good attendance.

14.   No comments from the Vision Dixie plan were mentioned.

15.   Final comments included a comment to not allow ATV'      s on dead-end streets. More road
      maintenance was requested in the summer as well as the winter. It was mentioned that
      Pine Valley attracts people because it is "one of a kind" and that it should not be changed
      and should be protected. There are things that can be done to accomplish this that will
      be mentioned in the General Plan.




                                              228
                     PINE VALLEY COMMUNITY GENERAL PLAN
                                    2003

INTRODUCTION

The General Plan for the Pine Valley Community is a part of the General Plan of Washington
County. Planning in Washington County began about 1970 and has continued since that time.
The most recent update of the plan was in November 1995. However, a Plan for the Pine Valley
Community was prepared in 1992 but did not consider the Pine Valley area in any detail. In the
year 2002, the County Commission appointed a planning committee to work with the County in
the updating of the General Plan for Pine Valley. This committee has work diligently for the
past year to gather information relating to the valley, review and strive to understand the
information gathered and to prepare an updated plan for the Pine Valley Community. Included
in this effort was a community survey sent to all property owners in the valley to gain input as to
the things that are important to those that live here whether year around or during the summer
months.

This plan then, becomes the first comprehensive look at the Pine Valley Community area.

BASIS FOR PLANNING

The authority for a General Plan comes from enabling legislation passed by the State of Utah and
found in the Utah Code, Article 17, which outlines the methods to be followed, and charges the
County Planning Commission with the development of a General Plan.

Many other public agencies also are involved in planning for the areas that they are responsible
for, such as the Bureau of Land Management, the National Forest, and the National Park. The
Forest Service is presently involved in an update of the Forest Management plan for the Dixie
National Forest that will impact land surrounding the Pine Valley Community.

PURPOSE OF THE PLAN

The purpose of the plan is to serve as a guide for orderly development. It sets the pattern for
growth and change. It expresses the goals as to what the area should look like in the future, and
it establishes the policies or guidelines for achieving these goals.

THE GENERAL PLAN AND ACTION

Effectuating the Plan is the responsibility of public and private groups. The Plan alone does not
cause things to happen, nor does it give precise recommendations for development of various
projects. The Plan provides the road map to follow. Vehicles of implementation, such as the
Zoning Ordinance and the Subdivision Ordinance, are needed to carry out the provisions of the
General Plan.


                                                229
UNDERSTANDING THE PLAN

The General Plan identifies various land use categories and considers the use of each of these
classifications. Many of these types of land use are considered in terms of Goals and Policies
that are adopted as a part of the Plan. Goals and policies are described as follows:

A GOAL represents an objective relative to some aspect of development that the County has
determined to achieve.

A POLICY is an action that will allow, or help the County to achieve the desired goal.

ELEMENTS OF THE PLAN

The Pine Valley Community is a beautiful area with many unique characteristics. There are
many qualities about the area that set it apart from other areas of the County. Therefore, as the
area continues to grow and develop, it is necessary that the things that make Pine Valley what it
is, are preserved. The amount of land is limited because the valley is surrounded by public land
under the jurisdiction of the National Forest system. There is a limit to the amount of water that
can be developed in the area as well as a limit to the number or solid waste (septic tank) disposal
units that can be constructed without the need for a central collection and treatment system.

It is the intent of the Plan to guide development in a manner that will maintain and protect the
values that have caused people to come to this area. The Goals and Policies of the County to
accomplish this purpose are identified in the various elements of the plan.

BACKGROUND AND HISTORY

Pine Valley is located near the geographical center of Washington County. The valley is
surrounded by the Pine Valley Mountains. Vehicular access is limited to a paved Forest Service
road running eastward from the town of Central. Central is served by State Highway 18 which
connects St. George on the south and Enterprise on the north.

Andrew Karl Larson in his book I Was Called to Dixie, describes Pine Valley in the following
Manner. “Pine Valley is near the headwaters of the Santa Clara, in a sequestered spot that
delights the eye of the beholder when it comes suddenly into view as he tops the hill on the
northwest. So must it have delighted the sensibilities of Isaac Riddle when the valley came into
his vision as he came over the eastern rim in 1855 looking for a strayed cow belonging to the
members of the Indian Mission at Fort Harmony. What he saw was tall lush grass that rubbed
his horse’s belly and wet his stirruped feet as he rode through an area yet untouched by man.
The tall timber of aspen, spruce, and pine grew thick on the slopes of the rugged hills and in the
canyons that opened into the valley.”




                                                230
Timber attracted the first settlers of the valley and with the construction of a saw mill in the
valley in the fall of 1855, much needed timber and shingles were provided to surrounding
settlements including the St. George valley, southern Nevada settlements as far south as the
Muddy settlement near Overton and to Pioche on the north, as well as to Silver Reef on the east
side of the mountain. In fact, timber for the St. George LDS Tabernacle, and the Salt Lake
Tabernacle Organ came from Pine Valley.

As the timber industry gradually died out, farming and livestock raising increased. In 1868 the
frame chapel, designed by Ebenezer Bryce, an Australian ship builder, was built of native timber.
There are still a number of pioneer homes standing in Pine Valley as evidence of the work of
early pioneer stock settling in the valley.

In time the number of residents in the valley declined from a high of about 300 until finally there
were no full-time residents living there. Over the years, Pine Valley became more known as a
summer home area for residents of southern Washington County and southern Nevada. Not until
the 1970' s did people once again began living year around in Pine Valley. There are currently 30
- 35 families claiming Pine Valley as their permanent home. That number increases many fold
during the summer months when seasonal residents return for the summer.

QUALITY OF LIFE

There is a quality of life in Pine Valley that is available nowhere else in this area. The town has
a historic flavor to it because of its history and background. This element itself creates a certain
feeling toward the valley because of its pioneer heritage.

Another factor that impacts the quality of life is the surrounding National Forest. The valley is a
small island surrounded by public land, thus limiting the amount of development that can take
place. The Forest Service is encouraged not to trade private land found elsewhere in the
National Forest for land adjacent to Pine Valley. The size and scale of the community are very
important to the residents of Pine Valley.

The fact that the valley is predominantly made up of residential dwellings and open space,
without the impact of significant commercial or any industrial development, adds to its unique
character. As identified throughout this plan, the residential and open space character of the
valley should be protected and preserved while other conflicting uses should continue, for the
most part, to be minimized. Any industrial development should not be allowed.

Changes to the character of the valley should come slowly, and then only after careful thought
and consideration as to their impact on the quality of life that people here have come to expect.
Besides the temperature change in Pine Valley compared with the temperatures elsewhere in
southern Utah and southern Nevada, it is the quality of life that attracts people to the Pine Valley
area. This plan attempts to identify in more detail some of the qualities that make Pine Valley
what it is, and recommendations are made for maintaining that quality while still allowing the
valley to continue to grow and develop.


                                                 231
TOPOGRAPHY, GEOLOGY, AND CLIMATE

Pine Valley is set in the midst of the hills of the Pine Valley Mountains. Located at an elevation
just over 6,500 feet above sea level, the valley is several thousand feet higher than the southern
part of the County. It is small wonder that the early settlers quickly learned about going to Pine
Valley during the hot summer months.

Temperatures in the valley vary in the summer with warm days and cool evenings. The valley
remains cool until after sunrise in the mornings. High daytime temperatures may be in the 80'
                                                                                            s
compared to well over 100 degrees in the lower valleys. Winter temperatures are much cooler
with daytime temperatures often remaining below freezing and dipping well below zero at night.

The community is somewhat flat with a general slope from the easterly end of the valley to the
west. Mountain slopes rise rapidly from the valley floor to the tops of the mountains at over
10,000 feet in elevation.

The valley is generally located within tertiary sedimentary and igneous rock formations which in
turn are underlain by the claron, grapevine wash, iron springs, dakota, carmel, and temple cap
formations before reaching the navajo sandstone.

ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS

The major environmental concern in Pine Valley is the effect that groundwater has on the future
development of the valley and the impact that it may have on other areas outside of the valley
itself. From the groundwater protection study developed by Hansen, Allen, and Luce, published
in July 1998, two potential areas of concern are identified as follows:

1.    Groundwater flow patterns within the valley are generally controlled by alluvial flow
      systems with ground water gradients of 6.7% to the west toward the town of Central.
      With a developed zone some 4,500 feet wide, an average saturated thickness on the order
      of 200 feet, and a permeability of between 10 and 25 feet/day. The total ground water
      moving westward would be between 5,050 and 121,653 acre feet per year. It is estimated
      that it would take approximately 18.5 years for a contaminant originating in Pine Valley to
      travel the five miles to Central.

2.    The second community potentially impacted by Pine Valley contamination may be those
      utilizing ground water wells located within the Millcreek drainage north of Washington.
      A review of geologic mapping shows strong north-south trending fracture systems which
      have been documented to traverse at least 2/3 of the distance between Pine Valley and the
      City of Washington. A contamination source therefore within Pine Valley that entered an
      open fault system may find it way to the Millcreek well field. Should such a flow path
      exist, it is estimated that it would take some 75 to 80 years for the contaminant to show up
      in the Millcreek drainage.


                                               232
The same groundwater protection study made a recommendation for septic tank density to
protect downstream water from becoming contaminated. The actual figures from the study
indicate a density of two acres per septic tank in the Pine Valley area. Such a density, applied to
the land in the basin, would allow for an additional 520 dwelling units north of the river and
1,610 dwelling units south of the river. These figures likely represent more dwelling units than
the amount of vacant, privately owned land will support at a full build-out level. This is
particularly true if no development takes place in the meadow area of the valley where the water
table is probably too high to permit installation of septic tanks.

LAND USE ANALYSIS

During the fall of 2002, a land use survey of the valley was completed by members of the
Planning and Historical committee. The valley was divided up into sections and the survey was
recorded by section. (See Figure 1) The number of single family homes at the present time in
the valley is 401. Additionally, there were 300 vacant building lots identified which could
provide sites for 300 more homes to be built. Most of the existing homes are second dwellings
or summer homes. However, there are presently about 35 of these homes occupied on a full-time
basis by year-around residents. Using the State average of persons per dwelling unit of 3.7, there
could be as many as 1,483 residents of Pine Valley in the area on any given day or weekend
during the summer months when most of the dwellings are occupied. An additional 1,110
residents could be added if all vacant building lots were built on.

In addition to the residential lots, there are 18 parcels of agricultural land that also contain
residential dwellings. They are classified in the land use survey as residential agriculture. This
would increase the population potential by another 66 residents, making the present “build-out”
population of Pine Valley somewhere near 2,650 to 2700 residents. While most of these would
be summer time residents, the number of year around residents continues to increase.

Besides the parcels of land discussed above, there were identified some 19 vacant parcels of
varying sizes throughout the valley. This number indicates that there is still additional land that
could be developed with building lots in the future, with a still greater increase in the number of
potential residents.

While not specifically a part of Pine Valley insofar as this planning study is concerned, the
National Forest campground east of Pine Valley provides campsites used by residents of other
areas. This adds many more people to the population of the region at any given time. The
campers are not considered to be residents of the valley. However, they all travel through the
valley to and from the campground which adds traffic on the streets. Others come to the valley
to stay at the Pine Valley lodge, or to eat at the fine restaurant in Pine Valley. Some others come
to Pine Valley simply to sightsee, or to get away from the heat of the lower valley for a period of
time.

Other uses identified in the land use survey include commercial uses which include the lodge,
restaurant, and a real estate office. There is also a church building in Pine Valley. Dixie State


                                                233
College maintains a building in Pine Valley for educational purposes related to the College. It is
not available for use by the general public.

The National Forest also maintains buildings inside the town site of Pine Valley. These include
a visitor center, lodging facilities for employees, and maintenance facilities. There are a new and
an old fire station in the valley as well as a Post Office facility. The fire station also includes a
meeting room that is used for town meetings of the Special Service District Board and the
Planning and Historic Advisory Committee.

The largest single use of land in Pine Valley is for agricultural use. The beautiful meadows that
lie in the center part of the valley encompass some 550 acres. Much of this land is sub-irrigated
by the Santa Clara River flowing through the valley. This same river, because of the high water
table that it creates through much of the meadow land, causes much of the land to be unsuited for
installation of septic tanks which would be required for residential development. For this reason,
unless a sewage disposal system was installed in the valley, which most residents hope to avoid,
the land will, for the most part, probably remain classified as agricultural land.

Altogether in the Pine Valley community town site there are approximately 1,300 acres of land.
This acreage includes the cemetery that was originally part of the National Forest, but was
deeded to the Pine Valley Water Company some years ago for upkeep and maintenance. The
cemetery lies just outside of and adjacent to the original town site.

AGRICULTURE / OPEN SPACE

Agricultural and open space areas of the valley may include the National Forest land surrounding
the community, some of the steep hillside slopes in parts of the valley, and the meadows along
the Santa Clara River running through the center of the valley. Following are goals and policies
relative to the agriculture / open space classification and use of land in the Pine Valley
community:

      GOAL: Identify agricultural / open space areas within the valley and provide protection
          from development in the areas identified. Areas that because of steep slopes, high
          water table, or other natural considerations should be maintained as agricultural or
          open space areas in order to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the present
          and future residents of the valley.

POLICIES:

      •        Maintain an agricultural / open space designation along the Santa Clara River and
              all associated land having a high water table not conducive to septic tank
              installation.

      •        Some of the meadow areas may be in the 100-year flood plain. Do not issue
              building permits, or approve subdivisions in these areas.


                                                234
      •        There are some streams and washes coming from the adjacent hills toward the
              Santa Clara River. Maintain these streams and washes and preclude them from
              being developed, or filled in by other adjacent development.

      •        Encourage the National Forest not to exchange any forest land in the valley for
              private land located elsewhere in the County. Allow the public lands to provide a
              buffer between the valley and other private lands outside the valley.

      •       Protect steep hillside land from being scarred by grading for home or subdivision
              development.

      •        Continue to encourage uses in agricultural and open space areas that will allow
              these areas to remain open. Livestock grazing in the valley should be continued
              and encouraged on low lying lands with a high water table.

      •        Establish zoning classifications that will preserve the Agricultural / open space
              lands identified in the valley as well as protecting the open space forest lands
              surrounding the valley.

      •        Encourage “green belt” classification of agricultural land.

      •        Encourage the establishment of agricultural protection areas according to State
              and County ordinances to protect the agricultural use.

      •        Educate new residents as to the agricultural character of the valley and solicit
              their support for agricultural use of land to avoid citizen complaints against
              livestock grazing operations.

      •        Work to maintain the quality of water in the Santa Clara River as it passes
              through the Pine Valley community.

RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT

Residential development is the primary type of development taking place in the Pine Valley
community. There are three distinct residential areas in the valley. These include (1) the west
area located nearby, (2) the central part of the valley which is dominated by the original town site
development of lots, blocks, and streets, and (3) the subdivision and commercial development
lying between the original town site and the forest boundary on the east

      GOAL: To provide for residential housing in attractive, functional neighborhoods to meet
          the needs of potential residents.

POLICIES:



                                                235
      •        Residential development should be encouraged to continue as the predominant
              type of development in the valley.

      •        Continue to use the same standards for manufactured homes as for other types of
              residential construction.

      •        The Zoning Ordinance should be used to determine the housing densities in
              different areas. Identify such densities in areas where they are not already
              designated.

      •        Maintain the overall density recommendations of the Ground Water Protection
              Study.

      •        Consider developing a plan for density transfer from areas where development is
              not feasible to areas where a greater density could be approved.

      •        Encourage home owners to use “earth tones” on exterior and roof treatments
              when constructing new homes in order to create a community that harmonizes
              without calling undue attention to particular dwellings because of bright color
              tones.

      •        Encourage residents to plant trees within lots and along streets. This would help
              beautify the town, and by placing the town under a canopy of trees, it would help
              provide shade and cooler temperatures during the summer months.
      •        There are many “small” parcels of residential property in the original town plat.
              While these small lots are legal lots of record, lot owners should be encouraged to
              combine small lots into larger parcels that comply with the current zoning
              classifications.

      •        Encourage new residents to take into account the relationship of their home to
              those around them in considering the height and size of a new dwelling, the
              direction of desirable views, etc., in order to help maintain a sense of scale in the
              valley, thereby not simply creating a valley filled with “large boxes” which block
              the view shed of others.

COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT

Commercial development in the Pine Valley Community should be kept to the minimum needed
to serve the convenience needs of the residents. People are attracted to Pine Valley not only
because of the summer climate, but also the peace and quiet that prevail in the valley. No
development which could change that characteristic of the valley should take place.

Most residents are not in favor of additional commercial development as evidenced by the
responses to the citizen survey recently sent out and returned by residents of the valley. Respect
the wishes of the majority of the residents. The number of requests by single individuals for

                                                236
specific commercial businesses does not warrant significant expansion of the commercial area
beyond the present boundaries.

      GOAL: Allow only sufficient development to provide for the convenience commercial
          needs of valley residents.


POLICIES:

      •        Limit commercial development to the areas where limited commercial
              development already exists in the valley.

      •        Any request for additional commercial business must provide for water and waste
              disposal in the same manner as for residential development.

      •       Encourage existing commercial business to maintain a high quality of appearance
              and service.

      •        Do not permit any commercial or noncommercial activity in the valley that would
              generate light, sound, or increased traffic not consistent with normal residential
              development

PUBLIC FACILITIES

Public facilities account for a great number of things that are of importance to the residents of the
Pine Valley community inasmuch as individual home owners and business owners are dependent
upon such things as water, power, waste disposal, access and circulation, and other similar
infrastructure that goes toward making up a viable and liveable community. The following are
some of the services that are available in one form or another that go toward making Pine Valley
a delightful place to live.

              Cemetery
              The Pine Valley cemetery is located at the intersection of the Pine Valley road and
              the roadway running eastward from the Pine Valley road along the north side of
              the valley. The cemetery is owned and operated by the Pine Valley Irrigation
              Company. The size of the property is ten acres, about two acres of which have
              been developed and platted.

              There is no landscaping in the cemetery, but it is covered with natural vegetation.
              There is no water available and maintenance is done by way of volunteer labor
              during periodic cleanup days. The road to the cemetery and parking at the
              cemetery have recently been graveled and improved. It is estimated that the
              cemetery should serve the community for at least fifty years. There is a charge for
              burial plots which could be amended from time to time by the water company.


                                                237
    GOAL: Provide an area where those desiring to do so can acquire burial plots and be
        buried in the Pine Valley cemetery at a minimal cost.

POLICIES

    •       Continue to maintain the cemetery as is presently done by the Pine Valley
           Irrigation Company.

    •       Encourage citizens to “turn out” to help on clean up days to keep the cemetery
           looking neat and attractive.

    •       Do not change the character of the cemetery through the removal of natural
           vegetation, landscaping, etc.



           Fire Protection
            The Pine Valley fire department consists of one paid officer and one paid
            secretary along with a volunteer force of 14. The department has a new (1998)
            fire station, 2 pumpers, 1 reserve pumper, and two brush trucks. The present fire
            rating is a 6. This was last evaluated in 1998. The fire department works under the
            supervision of the Special Service District.

    GOAL: Continue to improve the ability of the fire department to serve the community of
        Pine Valley, and continually work to lower the fire rating from its present level.

    POLICIES:

    •       Continue to train fire fighters in all aspects of fire fighting, including structural
           and wild land fire fighting.

    •       Continue to acquire fire fighting equipment for the fire fighters.

    •       Encourage the Forest Service to continue to develop a “fire break” around the
           community on the adjacent forest service land.

    •       Continue to work with the irrigation company to install additional fire hydrants in
           newly developed areas and to locate additional hydrants in already developed areas
           as necessary.

           Law Enforcement
            Washington County is responsible for law enforcement in the Pine Valley
            area. The County also has a contract with the Forest Service to provide law
            enforcement on National Forest land adjacent to the community, including the
            forest campground area.

                                              238
        GOAL: Continue to improve the level of law enforcement in Pine Valley.

POLICIES:

    •          Work with the County Sheriff and other County authorities encouraging them to
              increase the number of patrols in Pine Valley especially during the summer season
              and on holiday weekends.

    •          Work toward having a full-time or part-time officer in Pine Valley during summer
              or peak times of the year, and encourage more coverage during the off-season.

             Postal Service
              Postal service is provided by the United States Postal Service office out of Cedar
              City Utah. Deliveries are made six days per week, excluding Sunday’s and
              holidays. Mail is delivered to a building located on Main Street, next to the fire
              station. The facility provides a mail drop only, and no other services are
              available. There are 304 regular boxes that are available. The current level of
              service is excellent.


     GOAL: To maintain the quality of service that is presently available to residents of the
         Pine Valley area, and to continue to improve facilities and service as time goes on.

    POLICIES:

    •          Continue to make the Pine Valley Post Office one that the residents of the valley
              and the Post Office officials can be proud of.

    •          Continue to provide a service to the residents of the valley by having bulletin
              board space announcing community activities and making the post office a
              gathering place for residents.

    •          Expand the facility as necessary to provide for the needs of the residents, and at
              some future time, construct a permanent, enclosed building with additional
              services found at regular post office buildings.

             Waste Disposal
             Presently the valley is served by a common garbage disposal site about one
             mile out of town on land provided by the Forest Service adjacent to the highway
             coming into Pine Valley. The site is maintained by the Washington County solid
             waste district. The district is made up of one representative from each of the
             incorporated cities in the County and one County representative. This facility
             provides a significant improvement over previous collection sites which provided
             for several small collection sites around the valley.

                                                239
    GOAL: Work with the solid waste district to continue to improve the quality of service at
        the collection site, especially during summer months, on weekends and holidays.

    POLICIES:

    •        Continue to keep the area around the dumpsters cleaned up and presentable to
            residents and visitors.

    •        Request from the solid waste district that collections be more often on weekends
            and holiday periods.

    •        Work to have larger dumpsters (roll-offs) made available at the site for weekend
            and holiday use.

    •        Continue to increase the number of dumpsters beyond the present number as the
            community continues to grow and develop with more and more residents using the
            service.

            Culinary Water
             Culinary water to Pine Valley is provided through springs and storage tanks
             located in various parts of the valley. There is a 200,000 gallon storage tank on the
             west side of town and a 250,000 gallon tank on the east side. The main spring
             produces a flow varying between 630 and 250 gallons per minute depending upon
             he season and the length of the drought that the area is currently in. Four Hundred
             acre feet of water is presently committed to the system and an additional 1,800
             acre feet could be added as necessary. A new well is currently nearing completion
             and will be added to the system as soon as it is complete.

    GOAL: Make certain that there is sufficient culinary water available at all times to serve
        the needs of the community for culinary use and for fire protection.

POLICIES:

    •        Monitor the system regularly to determine that there is adequate water in the
            system at all times to meet the needs of the valley.

    •        Comply with all State testing and monitoring requirements to make sure that the
            system is state approved at all times.

    •       Add additional water to the system when necessary to provide for the needs of the
            residents.



                                              240
      •       Continue to upgrade the distribution system throughout the valley to make sure
             that there is adequate water and water pressure available at all times.

      •       Make sure that there are adequate fire hydrants throughout the community to
             provide for fire protection. Coordinate fire fighting needs with the fire department.

              Electricity
             Pine Valley is served by the Dixie Escalante Rural Electric Company. The
             capacity of the line at the present time is 2.5 megawatts. A new line has been
             constructed from Pinto which will provide 13.7 megawatts of power. The
             equipment for a new substation has been ordered, and will be installed within a
             week of its arrival. It     will be located near the solid waste facility and will
             allow the 13.7 megawatts to be utilized. The system would then be adequate to
             serve approximately one thousand dwellings.

      GOAL: Develop sufficient electrical power in Pine Valley to provide for the present and
          future needs of the residents, both permanent and part-time.

POLICIES:
    •      Support the Forest Service in providing the necessary easements to allow the
          substation to be constructed.

      •      Encourage development of the new substation as soon as possible to continue to
             make adequate power available.

      •       Monitor the electric needs of the valley and communicate the need for power
             regularly with the power company.

            Communication
            Pine Valley is presently served by Quest communications for telephone
            service. According to telephone company representatives, there is sufficient
            capacity in the present system to provide telephone service to anyone in the valley
            at the present time and well into the future. Only if some type of large-scale
            development took place would the amount of lines available become a problem.

             Presently fiber optic lines run only as near as the Veyo area. They may not be
             readily available in Pine Valley. Because of the seasonal character of the valley,
             major changes in the telephone system are not anticipated in the near future other
             than continuing to accommodate the request for telephone service by single family
             home owners on an as-needed basis.

             Depending upon the company providing the service, and the location in the valley
             of the person using a cellular telephone, cellular phones provide some additional
             service to the area. Quality of service by cellular telephone is known to vary
             somewhat throughout the valley.

                                               241
    GOAL: Continue to have good telephone service provided to residents of Pine Valley.

POLICIES
    •        Support the telephone company as necessary in continuing to provide adequate
            telephone service to the valley.

    •        Encourage the telephone company to continue to upgrade the system with
            improved capabilities as they are able to do so.

    •        Do not support the installation of cellular towers anywhere in the valley where
            they could be seen by residents from their various home locations.



            Circulation & Transportation
             Circulation and transportation are very important to the residents of the Pine
             Valley community. Only the main road from Central to Pine Valley is a paved
             road. This road extends through the community to the Pine Valley Forest Camp
             Ground, and westerly to the western end of Main Street. All other streets, except
             those in some of the more recent subdivision developments, are gravel roads. A
             secondary access into Pine Valley is on Forest Service land running north from the
             Pine Valley / Central road. This roadway runs through Grass Valley and connects
             with the Pinto and New Castle areas. This road is generally unimproved, and it
             would be up to the Forest Service to make any needed improvements.


    GOAL: Work with Washington County and the Forest Service to continue to improve and
        upgrade the roads in the Pine Valley community.

POLICIES:

    •        Prepare a map of roads in Pine Valley and identify the condition and needs
            associated with each roadway.

    •        Discuss with the County the present level of maintenance that is provided in each
            of
             these road areas.

    •        Encourage the County to work with the Forest Service for continued improvement
            of the road between Pine Valley and Central.

    •        Encourage land owners in any given subdivision who desire to have their roads
            paved to work together, or with the County, to create improved districts for those
            areas desiring improvement.

                                             242
    •        Work to encourage the Forest Service to dedicate their portion of the roadway
            serving the north side of the valley.

    •        Work with the County to develop a plan for snow removal to be carried out on
            valley roadways during winter months.

            Historic Preservation
            There are a number of historic homes and other locations in Pine Valley. Several
            homes were built by early settlers and are still used today. In addition, the site is
            still known of several historical sites related to the lumber industry that should be
            identified and preserved.

    GOAL: Preserve and identify historic homes and other historic sites in Pine Valley.


POLICIES:

    •       Catalog the location of all historic homes and other historic sites in the valley.

    •       Create an identifying marker or historic sign that could be used to identify each of
            the previously cataloged sites.

    •        Map the location of each identified site and make this map available to residents
            and visitors to the valley.

    •        Prepare a short written history of each of the historic sites identified. Include the
            history as a part of a visitor’s guide or historic map of the valley.

            Parks & Recreation
             Pine Valley is surrounded by the National Forest. In addition, there is a forest
             camp ground adjacent to the community. Most of the people who come to Pine
             Valley come for rest and relaxation. The recent community survey filled out by
             full-time and part-time residents indicated that there is no current demand for
             structured recreation facilities in Pine Valley.

            There is sufficient land adjacent to the fire station, approximately nine acres, that
            could be developed at some future time for park, recreation, and picnic facilities
            should the demand for such kind of activity increase in the future. Likely such
            improvements would be made by the volunteer efforts of residents. At this time,
            no structured recreation facilities are planned for Pine Valley. This reflects the
            desire of most of those returning survey forms. The adjacent Forest Service
            development provides for picnics, hiking, fishing, and other relaxing activities.

            Paths & Trails

                                              243
             There are presently a significant number of walking and hiking trails in the valley
             with trail-heads on Forest Service land. Some of these trails allow motorized
             activity, but some do not. Maps of trail systems are available at the Forest Service
             visitor center. The citizen survey recently completed indicated that there is not a
             demand or a need for walking, or trails of other kinds, to be developed in the
             community at this time.

             Pine Valley is in an area where various trails are planned and are in the process of
             being proposed on a broad scope as a part of a countywide or multi-county trail
             system. Some of these trails may connect closely to the Pine Valley area. The
             Pine Valley community is opposed to any inter-county trails passing through the
             community. In approving any such trail system, provision must be made to go
             around the town rather than through any portion of it. The construction of a
             bridge across the gulch west of town has been discussed. This would provide the
             necessary connection between the Grass Valley Forest Service road and the old
             Pine Valley road on the south side of the gulch and west of town. A better solution
             might be to locate any inter-county trail further to west of Pine Valley entirely.

             Additional efforts toward local trail development could be taken up again at some
             future time when there is an indication that such facilities would be desirable to
             residents of Pine Valley.

             Special Service District
             As with most of the unincorporated parts of the County, and authorized under
             authority of the Utah Code, a Special Service District has been created in the Pine
             Valley Community. Special Service Districts are created for the purpose of
             providing for the special needs of a given area that may not be needed in exactly
             the same manner as other areas of the County. The Pine Valley Special Service
             District was created by resolution of the County Commission on December 27,
             1978

              This Special Service District was formed primarily to take care of the needs of the
             residents of the valley in the area of fire protection, water development, and septic
             tank disposal. Other functions of the board may be added from time to time by the
             County Commission as it is shown that other needs should be addressed. The
             board has the authority to levee taxes for the purpose of taking care of the needs of
             the Valley. At this time, the members of the board are appointed to staggered
             terms by the County Commission. The board meets on a regular monthly basis
             and is available to consider concerns of any resident of the valley at any time.

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS

Pine Valley was first discovered by pioneer settlers as early as 1855. The valley has gone
through several changes since that time which include a period of timber production during
which time there was a significant population in the valley. Following the demise of the timber

                                              244
industry, the valley changed to mostly an agricultural setting with livestock and animal
production providing the main activity in the valley. From a population of some 300 residents,
the valley changed to the point where no one lived there on a year around basis. In the 1970's
there once again began to have families living in the valley on a permanent basis although the
predominant use of land since the 1970' s has been for seasonal or summer home development.

Presently, the greatest use of the valley is for residential use on a seasonal basis. The center of
the valley is still used for livestock grazing. The attraction of the valley is its peaceful, pastoral
setting where things are quiet and where one can get away for a time from the “hustle and bustle”
of city life. For this reason alone, residents are very hesitant to see any significant changes in the
valley in terms of commercial development, public recreation activities outside of the forest
campground and other development that would tend to urbanize the valley.

Most residents responding to a questionnaire sent out by the special service district and the
planning and historical committee either didn’t respond, or of the nearly 50% that did respond,
indicated that they most liked the valley the way is was and did not want to see any significant
change in any area of development.

For this reason, the planning and historic committed, in preparing this General Plan of the valley
to guide growth and development, have been very conservative in their recommendations for
change. Most categories of land use are recommended to maintain their current status and public
services are recommended to continue to provide for the growth of the valley, but not to
introduce any number of services that are not presently found.

There were individual requests for certain changes such as more commercial, a golf course, parks
and recreation areas, paths and trails, etc., but these comments represented the thoughts of only
one or two rather than the majority who responded to the survey. A copy of the survey, along
with the numbers and percentages who responded is attached to this plan as an appendix to it.

This plan will be forwarded to the County Planning Commission for review and
recommendation, as required by State law, and then considered in public hearing by the County
Commission for adoption as the General Plan of the Pine Valley community. It will then be
added as a part of the General Plan of Washington County and will be referred to for information
whenever any significant proposal for development in the Pine Valley area comes before the
Planning Commission or the County Commission.




                                                 245
                          PINTURA - I-15 FREEWAY CORRIDOR
                                   GENERAL PLAN
                                        2010-2011

Introduction:

The Pintura - I-15 Freeway Corridor is located in the central part of Washington County between
the Anderson Junction / Toquerville freeway interchange, and the Black Ridge freeway
interchange in the unincorporated area of the county. The area is about six miles long and varies
between one to three miles wide. The freeway at this location runs essentially north to south in a
south-westerly direction.

The town of Pintura is located in the center of the valley and contains fifteen homes, eight of
which are secondary dwellings, and seven of the homes are being lived in on a year-around basis.
There are three freeway interchanges along this stretch of freeway. They are Snowfield at the
north end, Pintura in the central part, and Browse toward the southerly end of the valley.

Geography and Topography:

The Pintura valley is a long, narrow valley that extends from the Black Ridge freeway
interchange on the north, to the Anderson Junction/Toquerville freeway interchange on the south.
On the westerly side of the valley, most of the land is under the jurisdiction of the National
Forest with some Bureau of Land Management land. One parcel of land is under the jurisdiction
of the Washington County Water Conservancy District.

The westerly side of the valley consists of lower, sloping hills leading to the higher slopes of the
Pine Valley Mountains. On the east side of the valley is a steep, generally barren slope, the top
of which is a designated wilderness area

                                                246
                                    TABLE I.
                           LAND OWNERSHIP IN THE
                           I-15 FREEWAY CORRIDOR
            Utah State Trust Land                    1,800 acres
                 Private Land                        1,520 acres
           Water Conservancy District                140 acres
                   BLM Land                         not calculated
                National Forest                     not calculated
               Developable Land              3,460 acres (approximately)

The public land surrounding the I-15 corridor is not available for development and is part of a
much larger area. Therefore, no effort is made to calculate this amount of land. Much of the
Utah State Trust Land has the potential for development except for some steep land along the
hillside areas. All of the privately owned land has development potential, and will be discussed
further by the General Plan.

The elevation at the Browse freeway interchange is about 4,131 feet above sea level. This
elevation increases to 4,141 feet at the Pintura interchange, and to 4,231 feet elevation at the
Snowfield interchange. This is a very moderate increase over a distance of approximately four
miles along the freeway. North of the Snowfield interchange, the grade of the freeway increases,
and rises sharply to the Black Ridge interchange at the north end of the valley. The land between
the Browse and Snowfield interchanges lends itself to various types of development although
much of the valley is quite narrow.

North of this valley the elevation is much higher and is a part of the climate found in the balance
of the State of Utah. The elevation continues to increase until it joins with the Great Basin. The
Great Basin does not begin until the land reaches the town of Summit, north of Cedar City.
However, the climate south of the Town of Summit to the Black Ridge, is a part of the four
season climate of most of the State of Utah. South of the Harmony Valley the elevation
continues to drop toward the mild climate of the Mojave Desert as identified by St. George City
at an elevation of about 2,600 feet. This valley along the I-15 corridor is in a transition zone
between severe climate change to the north, and the mild climate of the lower valleys of
Washington County to the south.

Freeway Interchange Analysis:

There are sixteen freeway interchange locations between the Arizona border and the Iron County
line north of the Harmony Valley. Most of the interchanges are located in incorporated cities.
Over the years, most of these interchanges have been developed except for two of them that are
relatively new. The three interchanges in the Pintura valley are mostly vacant. The following
table identifies each interchange and their general degree of development.

                              TABLE II.
              FREEWAY INTERCHANGES IN WASHINGTON COUNTY
                                                247
     Number    Mile Post    Location                                   Development
     1.        2            Airport / Sun River / St. George           Undeveloped (new)
     2.        4            Bloomington Drive / St. George             Developed
     3.        6            Bluff Street / St. George                  Developed
     4.        8            St. George Blvd. / St. George              Developed
     5.        10           Green Springs / Washington City            Developed
     6.        13           Telegraph St. / Washington City            Undeveloped (new)
     7.        16           S. R. 9 / Hurricane Valley                 Mostly Developed
     8 / 9.    22 / 24      Leeds - Partial Interchanges (2)           Partially Developed
     10.       27           S. R. 17 / Toquerville                     Mostly Undeveloped
     11.       30           Browse / Ranch Exit                        Undeveloped
     12.       31           Pintura                                    Partially Developed
     13.       33           Snowfield / Ranch Exit                     Undeveloped
     14.       36           Black Ridge / Ranch Exit                   Undeveloped
     15        38           Kolob Canyon / Black Ridge Ranch           Partially Developed
     16        40           New Harmony / Iron Co. Line                Partially Developed

Up to this point, there are five developed or mostly developed interchanges.
Five of the interchanges are partially developed. Six of the interchanges are undeveloped, or
mostly undeveloped. Ten of the interchanges are located in the various incorporated cities in the
county. Six of the interchanges are located in the unincorporated part of the county.

Of the six interchanges in the unincorporated area of the county, two of these are partially
developed. The New Harmony interchange is 1/2 in Iron County. The portion in Washington
County is partially developed. The Kolob Canyon interchange is one-half inside Zion National
Park which precludes any other development on the eastern side of the freeway.

The Pintura interchange is partially developed with some homes located on either side of the
interchange. The Black Ridge exit, while undeveloped, is very difficult to develop because the
topography at that location does not lend itself to any significant development.

The other two interchanges in the county, Browse, and Snowfield, are virtually undeveloped, and
because of their location, they are not adjacent to any other incorporated city, they would best be
developed in the county. Near the Browse interchange there is a significant amount of State
Trust land as well as private land close to the interchange which could be made available for
various types of development. The Snowfield interchange is virtually undeveloped except for
mineral development adjacent to the east hillside.

Future Land Use:

The future land use of this valley has been studied as a part of the General Plan. As a result of
this study, the General Plan makes the following recommendations:

1.     The Browse area:

                                                248
     Land in the Browse area is a combination of Utah State Trust Land and private land. It
     has remained mostly undeveloped at this time. There has been a proposal to develop a
     windmill farm on a portion of the State Trust Land. Preliminary plans have been
     approved by the county, but the project has not moved forward in recent months.

     The General Plan recommends that this area be developed in a mixed use pattern of
     commercial and industrial development. Some residential development in the steeper
     hillside areas may also fit into this area. A certain number of windmills would fit into
     this classification if this project moves forward, but the General Plan does not
     recommend a pattern of windmills extending from Browse to the Black Ridge.
     Aesthetically, such a pattern of development along the Pintura / I-15 Freeway Corridor
     would not provide an attractive entrance into Washington County, and therefore should
     not be encouraged.

     Other patterns of development including industry, housing, commercial business such as
     an outlet mall similar to the type of development found along this same freeway south the
     City of Barstow, California, would fit well into commercial business as a mixed use in
     this area. Such a facility was started at the north end of River Road in St. George City,
     but because it was located in the business area of the city, it has been largely absorbed as
     a general commercial area.

     Such a facility needs to be located outside of the regular commercial center of a city in
     order to be successful as a true outlet mall. The same fate happened to the outlet mall in
     the Draper City area of northern Utah. The urban core grew around the mall, and the
     outlet mall has virtually disappeared. The Pintura / I -15 Corridor would be an ideal
     location for a large outlet mall. In this location a mall would not be absorbed into the
     commercial shopping area of an existing city.

2.   The Pintura Area:

     With the existing homes near the Pintura freeway interchange, the General Plan
     recommends the future development of this area should be along the lines identified in
     the Vision Dixie Plan as a mixed residential / commercial center. The location of the
     town of Pintura is close enough to the "Urban" core of Toquerville, LaVerkin, Hurricane,
     and Washington City, St. George, Santa Clara, and Ivins, that it could be developed with
     a mixture of housing types, and convenience commercial businesses, close to the urban
     core of the county, but not actually a part of this core. It would be similar to the
     community of Apple Valley to the east, and the communities along the State Highway
     18 corridor north of St. George City. The Pintura center would be close to the urban area,
     but far enough away to maintain a rural character, which could be very attractively
     developed in the Pintura area.

3.   Snowfield:



                                             249
       The Snowfield interchange also has some of the same potential for development as the
       Browse interchange to the south. The valley is not quite as wide, and has one other
       element that lends itself to Industrial development. The area on the easterly side of the
       Interstate Freeway abuts the base of the steep hillside, the top of which is a designated
       wilderness area. In Washington County, mineral development is where you find it and
       one of the major areas of the county providing mineral products to the county is located
       along the base of this steep hillside. The area along the steep hills, through this area,
       coupled with the base of the Hurricane Cliffs running southward through Hurricane
       toward the Arizona border, is currently the major source of mineral development,
       meaning gravel, to support the growth and development of the remainder of the county.
       The land in the Snowfield area is mostly private property which does not require
       obtaining approval from the Federal Agencies before the resource can be developed.

       The I-15 Freeway corridor is a major transportation corridor between the Los Angeles
       Basin, Northern Utah, Idaho and Wyoming, Colorado, and points east. Many of these
       loads need to be "broken" and re-loaded to go in one or another of these directions based
       on the I-70 Interchange further north. The corridor through the Pintura area would
       provide a great opportunity for warehousing in a snow free area where these loads could
       be stored, re-routed and sent north or eastward. The General Plan recommends that this
       valley is perfectly located for this type of business to take place at either the Snowfield or
       the Browse freeway interchange.

       The General Plan recognizes this source of gravel as a major resource in the county that
       must be protected and allowed to develop. Even near the proposed mixed use area at the
       Pintura interchange, mineral development along the base of the hillside east of the
       freeway is a use that must be integrated into the mixed residential /commercial
       development of this potential community center.

The policy of Washington County has historically been to encourage development to annex into
one of the communities in the county when it is close by rather than remaining in the county, and
competing with the adjacent community to provide public services to developing areas. As a
result, the commercial and industrial sales tax base of the county is largely included in one or
another of the incorporated cities.

The I-15 Freeway Corridor provides the opportunity to develop the three freeway interchange
locations along this corridor that have remained undeveloped since the construction of the
freeway through Washington County. With most of the other interchanges already being
developed, this area provides the county an opportunity to benefit from future development at
three of the last undeveloped freeway interchange locations in the county. There are
opportunities for development in a mixed use manner in this area that does not exist at either of
the two other new interchanges in St. George City at mile post 2, and Washington City at mile
post 13 respectively.

Public Services:


                                                250
A section of the General Plan dealing with pubic services county-wide is located in Section VII
of the General Plan. This section of the plan will be adopted in connection with the adoption of
the various community plans and is not currently part of the General Plan. Some comments
specific to this area of the county are discussed here as they relate specifically to this part of the
county.

One of the reasons that development has not taken place along this part of the interstate system
in Washington County prior to this time has been the lack of public services which Washington
County has not provided to this or any other area of the county prior to this time.

This area of the county can now be developed with a minimum of county involvement which
was not previously available. Following is a list of some of the public services that would be
required in this area to provide for the development suggested by the General Plan.

Electricity:

Electric service to this part of the county is provided by the Rocky Mountain Power Company.
"Rocky Mountain" has been working very hard in the past few years to update and expand their
ability to provide service to Washington County. With the addition of another major
transmission line to the county, and the expansion of other service lines to parts of the county,
the Rocky Mountain Power Company is in a position to provide power for significant growth
and development in the future in all parts of the county where they have a service area.

Water

The availability of water has been one of the major drawbacks to development along this
freeway corridor since the freeway was originally constructed. This was the first section of the
interstate freeway to be completed in the county. Water could now be brought to this area by the
Washington County Water Conservancy District from wells located in the Anderson Junction
area, which already provide water to Virgin Town, Toquerville, and LaVerkin City. The
construction of a new reservoir in this area, along with the additional wells being added, could
provide a stable source of culinary water to this part of the county at any time the demand
justifies extension of development lines.

Sewage Disposal:

The small amount of development that has previously taken place in this valley has utilized
septic tanks for development. Depending upon the exact type of development in the industrial /
commercial mixed use areas of the valley, septic tanks might still be an adequate method of
sewage disposal. However, other means of disposal are now approved by the State Department
of Environmental Quality which could provide service to the mixed use commercial / residential
area that the General Plan suggests for the Pintura area.




                                                  251
Because the county now has an agreement with the Ash Creek Special Service District to oversee
sewage disposal in this part of the county, a future connection to the existing Sewer District
could also be an option sometime in the future.

Roads:

In the Pintura valley of the county, the only road of any consequence is the Interstate Freeway.
Most other existing roads are unimproved roads that serve various developments or residences
along the freeway corridor. Additional roads will be needed to serve the development that could
come in the future. These roads can be planned and developed in conjunction with developments
that are proposed to take place.

The General Plan would also recommend that when development takes place near the existing
freeway, that sufficient right of way for widening of the interstate be reserved as a part of
development near the current freeway right-of way. Frontage road widths should also be
required so that local traffic can travel up and down the valley without the need to travel on the
freeway.

Public Safety:

Public safety to the valley is provided by the Washington County Sheriff'
                                                                        s Office. This method
of law enforcement and police protection will continue to be provided and expanded as necessary
to meet the needs of the area. The Utah Highway Patrol will continue to provide an additional
police presence along the freeway right-of-way.

Solid Waste:

The Washington County Solid Waste Board is made up of one representative from each city and
town along with one member from the county. This committee oversees the collection of solid
waste in the county.

There is a central landfill location which is owned by Washington County and managed by the
solid waste collection company. This site is expected to be sufficient for many years to come.
The system of management and oversight is also expected to continue. The solid waste program
in the county is supported by the General Plan and currently works very well. The Plan
recommends that this system continue to be used for development in this part of the county.

Building Inspection:

Building inspection for all types of construction is provided by the County Building Department.
This Department is prepared to inspect commercial and industrial development as well as
residential development. The cost of building permits is established to defray the cost of
inspection during the period of construction. Building permit fees in the unincorporated areas of
the county are generally lower than those found in the incorporated cities and towns in the
county.

                                                252
Communication:

Most of Washington County is served by the Century Link communication company. In
addition to Century Link services, there are a number of private cellular companies providing
service in the county. Because of the proximity of any development to the Interstate Freeway, it
can be expected that most cellular systems will be available in this area. One cellular tower does
exist near the Browse Interchange, and two other towers have been approved south of the Black
Ridge interchange on the hillside above the freeway.

Flood Control:

Flood control has not been identified as a major problem along the freeway through this part of
the county. Proper drainage will need to be a consideration in the approval of any construction
plans for buildings in the valley, especially for large box storage or industrial buildings that may
be constructed.

Incorporation:

This is currently an unincorporated part of the county. It is the one area of the county where
annexation or incorporation is not expected in the future, and should be opposed by the county
should it be proposed. Toquerville, with City limits including the Anderson Junction freeway
interchange, could possibly propose to annex up through the Snowfield Interchange. The
General Plan recommends that this area of the county remain unincorporated to provide the
county with ``a commercial and industrial sales tax base that has not already been brought into
one of the other incorporated areas of the county.




                                                253
                       THE VEYO COMMUNITY GENERAL PLAN
                                   2010 - 2011

Introduction:

Veyo is an unincorporated part of Washington County. Residents and others should take time to
review Section I of the Washington County General Plan which discusses planning in general,
the basis for planning, and the purpose of planning. Many of the things mentioned in the
beginning of Section VII are also relevant to residents of this part of the county. The General
Plan of the Veyo community provides guidelines for the future for this particular part of the
county in addition to those things that are applied county wide in the other sections of the
General Plan.

In 1911, James L. Bunker filed on water from the Santa Clara and a homestead of 160 acres. He
was joined by John Hunt who also filed on 160 acres, and Step



hen Bunker did the same. In addition, James Cottam Albert Bunker filed on land south of the
Santa Clara.


                                              254
In 1914, James L. Bunder moved his family onto his 160 acre parcel and was the first resident of
the community. James F. Cottam also moved his family to the area in 1914 and was the first
family to stay permanently on the land.

The Homestead Act allowed a person to file on 160 acres of land, and if they were able to live on
the land for three years after paying a $16.00 fee, you could then acquire an additional 160 acres
for the rate of $1.00 per acre. Over the years Veyo has developed as a quiet, agricultural and
livestock raising community. In the 1971 County General Plan, Veyo showed a population of 95
residents. Over the past forty years, Veyo has continued to grow and develop as a quiet
community and a desirable place to live and raise a family.

The early residents could not get approval for the chosen name for the community so turned over
the task of naming over to the "Beehive" girls. From two Bee Hive words, verdure and youth,
came the name Veyo by taking the first two letters from each word, it was readily accepted.

Geography and topography:

Veyo is centrally located along the western corridor of Washington County. With Winchester
Hills, Diamond Valley, and Dammeron Valley located to the south of Veyo, Brookside,
Central/Dixie Deer, and Pine Valley to north and east, and Gunlock to the west, Veyo is located
in the center and crossroads of the "west side" development in Washington County.

Veyo is located almost mid-way between the City of St. George, and the City of Enterprise along
State Highway 18 running between these two cities in Washington County. With all of the
above factors in place, the Veyo community is well positioned to play an important role in any
significant future development along the west side of the county.

Veyo was developed over the years as basically an agriculturally based valley. There are still
many large, open space, agricultural and livestock oriented areas in the Veyo valley.
Unlike many of the other unincorporated communities in the county, Veyo is not closely
surrounded by public land. The valley itself is privately owned without public lands taking up
much of the valley area.

There is a small amount of land in the valley under the jurisdiction of the State and Institutional
Trust Lands along with some land controlled by the Utah Department of Wildlife Resources.
Most of the other land in the valley is privately owned.

Table I on the following page identifies the land ownership in the valley and the approximate
amount of land under the jurisdiction of each land ownership.

                                         Table I
                        Land Ownership / Management in Veyo
        State of Utah - Trust Land + UDWR         39.20 acres   0.06 sq. miles
        Private, vacant, quasi public land       2,416.82 acres 3.78 sq. miles


                                                255
                                   Total:         2,456.02 acres    3.84 sq. miles

Land Use:

The private land group is made up of several kinds of development. The following Table, Table
II, shows the breakdown of the various uses in the valley.

                                         Table II
                                    Existing Land Use
        Residential Development                              190.78 acres
        Vacant, grazing, farming                            1,818.02 acres
        Commercial                                           144.31 acres
        Industrial                                            59.98 acres

                          Total:                            2,213.09 acres

The above figures may not be totally survey accurate, but they paint a relative picture of the
various types of land use. There is still much land available for development.

Residential development in Veyo occupies about 14 % of the private land in the valley. Vacant,
undeveloped, farming and grazing land occupies over 82 percent of the total land area, and about
3 % is devoted to industrial development.



Agricultural Development:

The majority of the valley is available for potential agricultural development. Farming is limited
in the Veyo community, largely because of a lack of irrigation water for crop production.
Livestock grazing makes up a large amount of the land area in the valley.

Irrigation water was brought to the valley years ago when early settlers filed on Santa Clara
River water and brought the water to Veyo in an open irrigation ditch. The water was all
subscribed to and no further water shares are available except by purchase from a current owner.
Years later, the Baker Dam was construction which stabilized the water supply, provided for
supplementary water, and for an agreement with the power company to maintain the ditch in
exchange for providing water for power generation.

The amount of power developed is a small amount by comparison with the electrical needs of the
county in this period of time, but it provided power to serve the small communities in the county
at the time it was developed, and the water provided local farmers with water to grow crops in
addition to livestock grazing.

The General Plan supports continued agricultural use of land in Veyo and elsewhere in
Washington County. Crop production in the Veyo area should be protected wherever possible.
                                                256
Land owners involved in farming should make certain that their land is classed in a green belt
classification to protect against increases in land value until such time as the land is sold. If
farming is a nuisance to neighbors, the land may be placed in an agricultural protection
classification which gives protection for the continuance of necessary agricultural operations in
the event that non-agricultural development takes place nearby.

In more recent years, conservation easements have been placed on agricultural land which allows
the owner to continue with agricultural use of their land and, at the same time, compensate them
for value that they might otherwise receive by selling the land for development.

The residents of the community have strongly supported the continued use of land for
agricultural purposes. The above methods, along with others that may be suggested, should be
followed in the protection of the agricultural base of the community.

The amount of irrigation water in Veyo is limited. All of the water was subscribed to and
allocated at the time the Dam was constructed. Some shares have been sold to others over the
years, but there is not enough irrigation water in the valley to irrigate all of the land that could be
used for farming. As a result, much of the land is, instead, used for livestock raising and to
provide grazing for livestock animals.

Residential Development and population considerations:

There are currently 73 building lots in recorded subdivisions in Veyo. There are only three
recorded subdivisions in the valley. These include the following:
    •  Old Spanish Trails Subdivision which was recorded in 1973 and contains 43 lots.
    •  Lava Ridge Subdivision which was recorded in 1974 and contains 18 lots.
    •  Chadburn Subdivision which was recorded in 1979 and contains 11 lots.
       Three of those lots have been divided into 5 additional lots.

In these three subdivisions there are currently 11 vacant lots in Old Spanish Trails Subdivision, 4
vacant lots in the Lava Ridge subdivision, and 16 vacant lots in the Chadburn Subdivision, for a
total of 31 vacant lots in the three subdivisions. This leaves a total of 42 homes in the existing
subdivisions.

There have been a number of lots sold be metes and bounds outside of the three subdivisions.
This number is somewhere in the range of 45 additional lots with homes on them in the Veyo
valley. These numbers total about 42 homes in the three subdivisions along with 45 outside the
subdivisions for an approximate total of 86 dwelling units in Veyo.

The average family size in Veyo according to the completed questionnaires is 4 members per
family. This is about one person per family greater than the county average. Using the county
average of about 3 residents per dwelling unit, it would project a current population in Veyo of
about 258 residents. Using an average family size of 4, the population would be about 348
residents.


                                                  257
Over the past ten years there have been 40 building permits issued in the Veyo area. If this same
pattern continued for the next ten years, the community of Veyo could expect to have an
additional 120 to 160 new residents over the next ten year period.

There are currently 31vacant building lots in the existing Veyo subdivisions. This would provide
90 - 120 residents if no new development happens, and only the existing lots are built on. Rarely
do subdivisions build out to a 100% density total.

There have been no new residential developments in the community of Veyo since 1979. One of
the reasons for little growth over the past ten years is a lack of culinary water. Many of the
surrounding communities have been developed in whole or in part since 1979. With all of the
new development in Washington County in the past 40 years, it could be viewed as a little
strange that such an attractive valley as the Veyo valley would have no new subdivision during
the last 30 or 40 years. If sufficient water was available to support development and growth, it
could be expected that there would have been significantly more growth than has actually taken
place.

Population Density:

The projection of existing population and projected population are discussed above. The
projected population above shows one of the lowest population densities of any of the
unincorporated communities in the county. With a population of 250 to 350 residents and a land
area of 2,213 acres, the density is over 7 acres per dwelling unit. That is a very low density by
any standard of measurement. .


Vision Dixie Summary:

 According to the responses from the questionnaire circulated in the community, only a few of
the residents participated in the Vision Dixie Study that was undertaken by the county a few
years ago. The outgrowth of the study and recommendations by the committee charged with
reviewing the material collected was a series of guidelines and policies aimed at guiding future
growth in the county. The summary of the Vision Dixie study, adopted by the county and most
of the incorporated cities and towns in the county is summarized for the residents of Veyo as
follows:

1.     Plan Regionally, Implement locally - The General Plan for Veyo is a locally prepared
       plan for this area of the county only, and is a part of the overall county General Plan. It
       deals with aspects of the future of Veyo and may be amended from time to time as
       necessary, dealing with the concerns of the Veyo community and not the county at large.

2.     Maintain air and water quality, and conserve water - The Veyo area has a high standard
       of air quality. The low population density of Veyo and the separation of Veyo from other
       more urban areas of the county, help to maintain good air quality in Veyo. Water


                                               258
      conservation is necessary in Veyo because of the limited amount of water that is available
      in the community.

3.    Guard our signature landscapes - With one exception, the surrounding hillsides of Veyo
      are maintained in an open space category on public land. Some years ago, the natural gas
      company requested construction of a pressurization station on the hillside west of Veyo,
      and received permission for the construction of this station. It is visible from the
      community of Veyo, and should not have been approved in that location. With the
      Vision Dixie Principles in place, it can be expected that there will be no further
      developments approved in the Veyo community view-shed.

 4.   Provide connected natural recreation areas and open spaces - This is covered by the
      previous item in protection of the view-shed surrounding the valley. It should be
      protected and maintained.

5.     Build a balanced transportation system. - There is presently no public transportation
      system serving the Veyo community. Public transportation may sometime come between
      St. George City and Enterprise City. If such transportation system was in existence,
      Veyo would obviously be involved. At this point in time, such service will not likely
      take place during the period of this General Plan.

6.    Get centered by focusing on growth in walk-able mixed use centers - The center of Veyo
      is walkable, under the Vision Dixie Principles, to many of the residential dwellings in the
      valley. The study recommended that all dwellings should be within three-quarters of a
      mile from a commercial center. If the entire valley is developed, additional commercial
      centers should exist at various points within the valley. Further discussion of commerce
      in Veyo will be discussed following in the section dealing with commercial development.

7.    Direct growth inward - This policy is generally being followed in Veyo. Within the Veyo
      valley, residential development is generally contained to those areas of the valley
      adjacent to the State Highway and the country road that intersect in the center of the
      residential portion of the valley. Other development, if additional development takes
      place in the future, should be encouraged to grow outward from the "center" of the
      current growth area and not to "leapfrog" to far corners of the valley with no infill of
      development in between.

8.    Provide a wide range of housing types - This policy works well in the urbanized portions
      of the county where sewer service is available. In Veyo, where homes are on septic tanks
      for waste disposal, these septic tanks would not support large blocks of multiple family
      dwellings. A sewer system for waste disposal is not needed in Veyo at this point of time.

9.    Reserve areas for industry - Veyo identified areas for industrial development that are
      located in an area away from the residential development in the community. The type of
      industry which includes cinders and rock products seems to work well in the area in
      which it is located. These industries do not require freeway access on a regular basis

                                              259
       which makes it possible for them to work well in the Veyo community. Most of the
       unincorporated communities in the county are basically a subdivision development. This
       is not the case of development in Veyo.

10.    Public Land Conversion - The Veyo valley is made up of private property. The public
       land surrounding the valley has not been identified as being necessary to the future
       growth and development of the Veyo community.

Commercial Development:

One goal of the Vision Dixie Plan is to try to make communities as sustainable as possible. This
means that residents should be able to find work where they live, and that circulation through the
community might be better with walking and bike trails as opposed to automobiles.

Relative to commercial development in Veyo, the questionnaires returned by the residents
attending the planning meeting held in Veyo last summer indicated that there was mixed feelings
relative to commercial development in the community. Many suggested that no more
commercial development was needed, and others suggested a rather broad range of additional
commercial facilities that they would like to see developed in Veyo.

One interesting fact that has been revealed through the General Plan process in surrounding
unincorporated communities is that while most of these areas have very little; if any, commercial
development of their own, most recommended that future commercial development take place in
Veyo or St. George.

South of Veyo is three other communities, Winchester Hills, Diamond Valley, and Dammeron
Valley. North of Veyo is three other communities including Pine Valley, Central/Dixie Deer,
and Brookside/Pine Valley Mountain Farms. To the west of Veyo lies the community of
Gunlock. Each of the areas identifies Veyo as a potential commercial area to serve their
community. Based upon the Vision Dixie Plan, Satellite commercial areas are needed to support
commercial centers. Obviously St. George is a major commercial center in Washington County.
By the same token, Veyo fits the model rather perfectly as a satellite commercial center to serve
a certain section of the county.

There may be some question as to just where there is sufficient land available to provide for
additional commercial development in the Veyo community, in addition to the development that
already exists at the major intersection with State Highway 18 and the county road to Gunlock.
The General Plan recommends that Veyo be identified as a satellite commercial center for the
communities making up the "west side" of Washington County. The community may want to
survey the area to determine how much additional commercial development could take place
near the center of the existing community, or where in proximity to this area additional
development could take place.

The residents of Veyo should keep in mind the fact that commercial development is largely
determined by economics. When someone determines that there is a sufficient demand for a

                                               260
certain commercial business, they will seek to develop that particular business. Until someone
decides that there is economic potential for a business, no development will take place. There is
currently no rush to develop in Veyo.

Industrial Development:

Industrial development in Veyo in terms of a typical industrial park development containing a
cross section of industrial businesses does not exist in Veyo, and is not expected to take place.
Industrial development, in normal terms, requires transportation from the industrial site to the
market. Most industrial industry areas require access to ground transportations (freeways), or air
transportation (airports). Veyo does not have ready access to either of these basic needs.

Industry in Veyo is tied to natural resources that are available in the surrounding area, and are
not tied to either large truck transportation or air transportation to sell the product that is being
developed at industrial sites in Veyo. The existing business fit the location in Veyo, and the
General Plan recommends that those types of industries that are compatible with the industrial
surroundings continue to be encouraged to locate in the Veyo industrial area.

Public Services:

A section on public services, as they relate county-wide, is found at the beginning of Section VII
of the Washington County General Plan. Some comments that may specifically relate to the
Veyo valley are re-stated here as they relate specifically to this community.

Electricity:

Electric service to Veyo is provided by the Rocky Mountain power company. This company has
recently upgraded their distribution lines from the Red Butte distribution center. They are in the
process of upgrading their main distribution line from the sub-station at Sigurd, Utah, to the Red
Butte sub-station located near the Central/Dixie Deer community. With this upgrade in place,
the power company feels that it will be in a position to provide electrical service to the west side
of the county for a long time to come. The residents of Veyo generally gave their electrical
system good marks in terms of reliable service to the community. The ability to provide good
service to the residents of Veyo should continue for many years to come.

Natural Gas:

There is a major natural gas distribution line that currently parallels State Highway 18 and runs
between the Red Butte sub-station near the Central/Dixie Deer community, and joins a
comparable line coming into the county from the east side of the Pine Valley Mountains that
serves communities on the east side of the county and which come together in the St. George
area. These lines provide a stable source of natural gas to the county and to most of the
communities therein.

Water:

                                                  261
Water to the Veyo community is provided by a private water company who sells shares to land
owners who request to purchase shares. The owners of the water shares become the owners of
the water company. The water company obtains most of the culinary water from springs located
to the north and east of the valley, and stores water in four different storage tanks located at
various points throughout the valley.

Water from the Veyo Water Company also provides water to a part of the Brookside subdivision.
The Pine Valley Mountain farms water company also provides water to a portion of the
Brookside subdivision.

The limited amount of water available for purchase is the single most limiting factor to
additional development in Veyo. The Washington County Water Development District has
talked from time to time about running a water line along Highway 18 going north from St.
George to serve communities along such a line. The intent of the District is to provide
supplementary water to communities who need additional water in the case of a breakdown in
their local system, or to support additional development. The General Plan does not recommend
that water systems be turned over to the Water District, but that they would be able to purchase
supplementary water and add it to their systems should the need arise.

There is a limited amount of irrigation water available to some parts of the Veyo area. This
water is limited to the extent that it does not allow for unlimited farming throughout the valley.
All irrigation water is currently in use. The irrigation water does provide for farming on a
limited basis in the valley. There is no un-appropriated water in any part of the county, including
the Veyo area.

Sewage Disposal:

This public service has been discussed previously. Veyo is served by individual septic tanks for
all homes and businesses in the valley. Based on the recommendations of the county-wide
wastewater report adopted some years ago, Veyo can continue to develop using septic tanks for
many years to come as long as lots are of sufficient size for adequate outfall lines for septic
tanks. Septic tanks should be inspected on a regular basis and pumped or outfall lines replaced
as necessary to keep the system working well. On site treatment facilities are now available as a
viable alternative to a sewage collection system. This could some day be an option for the Veyo
area in the event that substantial residential or commercial development takes place at some
time.

Roads:

There is a combination of road designations in Veyo. The major highway running through town,
State Highway 18, is managed by the Utah Department of Transportation as a State Highway.
Little by little, UDOT has been widening this highway to improve traffic movement, particularly
moving northward out of St. George, for some time. Over time, this widening should continue
all the way to the City of Enterprise, or at a minimum to the Pine Valley turn off in Central.

                                               262
It may be difficult to widen this highway to four lanes through the central part of Veyo, but it
could be needed as the volume of traffic continues to increase from north to south in Washington
County.

One major county road exists through the community of Veyo. This is the county road that runs
westward from Veyo to Gunlock. Widening of this highway from two to four lanes is not
anticipated at any time in the future of the General Plan for Veyo, and with minimum
improvements over time, should be sufficient to serve the commuting needs between Veyo and
Gunlock.

Other county roads include the local street system in the Veyo area. Most of these roads have
been paved and are maintained in that condition by the county. This maintenance level should
be continued.

The policy of the county for many, many years has to maintain county roads in the same
condition and degree of improvement that they were in at the time the subdivisions were
recorded. The Lava Ridge subdivision falls into that category. For whatever reason, that road
was dedicated but accepted without being paved. It will be maintained in that condition unless
and until such time as land owners along that roadway cause the road to be improved, after
which time the county will maintain the road in the improved condition.

Veyo also has one subdivision, Old Spanish Trails, which has private streets. These streets were
left as private streets at the time the subdivision was developed at the request of the developer.
Therefore, they are not maintained by the county. Some requests come from time to time to have
the county accept dedication of these roads. If that happened, they would be maintained in the
same condition as they are today.

There are some benefits to private roads. Usually traffic is less on private roads. As areas for
people to go to walk without higher traffic levels, they can be very attractive. There may be
good reason for the property owners in this subdivision to keep the roads private. Or, on the
other hand, a small assessment to the property owners could provide funds for minimum
improvement to these roads, as necessary, and they may be very satisfactory as private roads
which they have been for some forty years now.

Fire Protection:

The community of Veyo operates its own volunteer fire department. It is a part of the North
West Fire District. In recent years, Veyo has constructed a new fire station located on the north
side of Center Street just a little way east of the center of town.

The volunteer department participates with the Washington County Fire Chief' s Association.
The 10 volunteer members of the department participate in training with the District.



                                                263
The new fire station contains one pumper truck and two brush trucks. The department has also
obtained safety equipment for the use of the volunteers during actual fire fighting. The Veyo
department is also on call to assist with fires outside of the Veyo area as may be needed to assist
fire departments elsewhere in the county. The department continues to make efforts to improve
and enlarge to meet the needs of the Veyo area.

Public Safety:

Police protection in Veyo is provided by the Washington County Sheriff'    s Office. This service
will continue as long as Veyo continues as an unincorporated part of Washington County. Some
communities in the county desiring greater protection have contracted with the county to
increase the amount of sheriff's visibility in their community through a specific contract calling
for more sheriffs’ protection in exchange for additional funds being raised by the community.

Solid Waste:

The county solid waste board is made up of one representative from each city or town, along
with one member from the county, oversee the collection of solid waste in the county. This
board contracts with a private company to provide the collection of waste in the county. There is
a central landfill location which is owned by Washington County and managed by the solid
waste company. This site is expected to be sufficient for many years to come. The system of
management and oversight is also expected to continue. Overall, the solid waste program in
Washington County is recommended by the General Plan and currently works very well.

Building Inspection:

Building inspection for dwelling units and other types of building construction are provided by
the county building department. The cost of building permits is established to defray the cost of
inspection during the period of construction. Building permit fees in the unincorporated
communities are significantly less than found inmost of the incorporated cities and towns in the
county.



Communication:

Most of Washington County is served by the CenturyLink communication company. In addition
to CenturyLink services, there are a number of private cellular companies providing service
within the county. Citizen response to the planning questionnaire resulted in a mixed response to
the question of cellular services. This undoubtedly depends upon what cellular system a person
uses. However it would appear that the communications in Veyo are generally adequate, with
the General Plan recommending that communication providers continue to upgrade their services
to the Veyo area.

Flood Control:

                                                264
Veyo appears to be one community in the county that is not severely impact with flooding
problems. The Santa Clara River canyon through the Veyo area is generally quite deep which
tends to minimize the problem of flooding.

Cemetery, Parks, and Recreation:

A cemetery in Veyo is located towards the easterly end of town and is maintained in connection
with a park site that exists adjacent to the cemetery. The adjacent park site has been developed
by residents of the community and provides a certain need for park and recreation development
in the community.

The current park and cemetery are located on land obtained by Washington County many years
ago through the Recreation and Public Purpose Policy Act, when the county obtained a 40 acre
site in the Veyo community to allow the community to develop additional recreation facilities.
The county would deed the park to a body politic, if one existed, with the intent that the residents
of the community would work collectively to develop additional park and recreation facilities in
the area. The majority of the land is located north of the road that intersects the land with the
park and cemetery on the south side of the road and the balance of the land on the north side.

The questionnaires submitted to the county as a part of the General Plan project listed a number
of facilities that they would like to see developed in Veyo. Many, if not all, of the recommended
facilities could be accommodated on the 40 acre tract of land that is being held for recreation
purposes. The location of this parcel of property is north, across the street, from the current park
and cemetery property.

There are also two privately owned sites in Veyo were recreation activities are available. One of
these is an arena facility located north of the community center where equestrian activities are
held from time to time. The other site is the well known Veyo Pool, located south of the Santa
Clara River and east of the State Highway.

The Veyo Pool property was homesteaded by the Cottam family, and a warm spring was found
coming out of the black lava canyon which was on the property. The family took three years to
construct a family pool. A year and one-half later, it was changed to a public pool with a .15
cent admission price. Over the years it was enlarged a couple of time to its current size of 28
feet by 70 feet. The Pool development has been one of the well known recreation sites for
swimming, picnicking, and other recreation activities in the county, and was the one thing that
made Veyo a well known community. For many years it was the only public swimming pool in
Washington County. As other facilities have developed in recent years, the Veyo Pool has
diminished in prominence, but for many, many, years the pool served as a prime recreation site
for residents of Washington County.

Incorporation:



                                                265
One final issue related to public services is the question of incorporation. Under Utah State law,
a petition for incorporation must originate from within the community that desires to pursue this
alternative. Whether or not this is an alternative that should be considered further is a decision of
the residents of Veyo. Incorporation has been considered once or twice in past years, but has not
reached fruition. The county does not promote incorporation, nor does it oppose incorporation.
That is a decision that is left totally up the residents of the area where incorporation is being
discussed or considered.

The county does feel that government that is closest to the people is the best form of government.
Veyo does have a minimal local tax base that could help support incorporation, and this tax base
will likely continue to increase as the satellite commercial concept for the Veyo continues to
grow in coming years.

In each area of the county where planning meetings have been held with the residents, it has been
expressed that the residents would like to keep things just as they are. Physically, most of these
unincorporated areas have changed very little over a long period of time. However, the residents
of these communities continue to grow older, and in most cases, the replacement by new younger
families does not take place. Therefore, to keep things just as they are is something that is not
possible to happen.

The question is not whether things change, but rather, "Will we as citizens of a given area be
prepared to give direction and input to change when it happens, or will we sit back and wait until
something happens, and then wish that we bad been able to do something about the change after
it has taken place."

To be aware of what is happening, and to give citizen input to projected change before it takes
place is the opportunity for the residents of this community as a result of the General Plan study
that is contained herein.




            WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY STATISTICAL SURVEY
                                  FOR
                        THE COMMUNITY OF VEYO
                               2010 - 2011

1.     Residency status:

       a.      How long have you lived in this area?                 14 years average

                                                266
     b.     Number in family:                                         4 member average
     c.     Homeowners:                                              86.8 %
     d.     Land owners only                                          2.6 %

2.   Reasons for living in the Veyo area:

     a.     Born or raised in the area                               55.2 %
     b.     Close to family, friends, or neighbors                   76.3 %
     c.     Close to mountains, etc.                                 76.3 %
     d.     Like open space                                          97.3 %
     e.     Opportunity to keep animals                              81.5 %
     f.     Quiet community                                          97.3 %
     g.     Recreational opportunities                               52.6 %
     h.     Safe community                                           86.6 %
     i.     Small town atmosphere                                    84.2 %
     j.     Other reasons                   less restrictions, beautiful valley, safe for kids, clean
            air, can have clothes lines; can have gardens, orchards, pastures, chickens, cows,
            clean air.

3.   Should the rural atmosphere be preserved? Yes          86.6 %          No      2.6 %

     How should it be done?         No curb, gutter, or sidewalk, leave the area alone, lower
     taxes, let the town make their own decisions, keep it as it is, require minimum sized lots,
     have no land use regulations, limit water connections, allow no "cookie cutter"
     subdivision lots.

4.   Should farmland be preserved?                  Yes     86.6 %          No      --

     How should it be done?         Leave it alone, lower taxes, keep the open space, have no
     land use regulations, let farmers control their property, have less expensive water,
     encourage livestock, no curb, gutter, or sidewalks, let lots keep their water, let land
     owners decide.

5.   Would you favor developing a system of walking/bicycle trails throughout the
     community?          Yes 13.1 %            No     71.0 %

6.   Mark on a scale of 1 to 5 your concerns on each of the following: traffic, safety, street
     and road conditions, unsafe OHV use, and street dedication. 5 = most concerned, 1 =
     least concerned, 0 = no perceived problem.

     a.     Off-highway vehicles on streets - 0 = 52.6 %, 5 = 5.2 %, 4 = 2.6 %, 3 =
            2.6 %, 2 = 10.5 %, 1 = 5.2 %
     b.     Speed/traffic control - 0 = 47.3 %, 5 = 13.3 %, 4 = 2.6 %, 2 = 18.4 %,
            1 = 10.5 %
     c.     Road conditions - 0 = 34.2 %, 5 = 26.3 %, 4 = 7.8 %, 3 = 7.8 %,

                                              267
             2 = 5.2 %, 1 = 13.1 %
      d.     Unsafe OHV use - 0 = 50.0 %, 5 = 5.2 %, 4 = 5.2 %. 3 = 5.2 %,
             2 = 7.8 %, 1 = 13.1 %
      e.     Road dedication - 0 = 50 %, 5 = 13.1 %, 4 = 2.6 %, 1 = 10.5 %,
      f.     Other - large trucks on street, with low maintenance, pave and maintain
             roads

7.    Desired commercial or industrial business: None (many times), leave alone, we have all
      we need, a grocery store, a car wash, a saw mill, an oil refinery, a commercial airport,
      create a county commercial district, locate out of Veyo, none, we need more, we live
      close enough to St. George, hardware store, plumbing supply, auto arts store, lawn and
      garden store, restaurant,

8.    Where should commercial development be located: North of town, along Highway 18,
      in St. George, Wherever someone wants, way out of the community, or the center of
      town?

9.    Relate your experience with local services as they relate to your area:
      Excellent = 5, Poor = 1, 0 = No experience.

      a.     Ambulance - 0 = 28.9 %, 5 = 26.3 %, 4 = 10.5 %, 3 = 13.3 %, 2 = 10.5 %,
             1 = 10.5 %
      b.     Drinking water service and quality - 5 = 52.6 %, 4 = 26.3 %, 3 = 26.3%,
             1 = 2.6 %
      c.     Electrical power - 5 = 28.9 %, 4 = 28.9 %, 3 = 18.4 %, 2 = 7.8 %,
             1 = 7.8 %
      d.     Fire protection - 5 = 39.4 %, 4 = 21.0 %, 3 = 18.4 %, 2 = 2.6 %,
             1 = 10.5 %
      e.     Garbage collection - 0 = 5.2 %, 5 = 47.3 %, 4 = 13.1 %, 3 = 21.0 %,
             1 = 5.2 %
      f.     Law enforcement - 0 = 7.8 %, 5 = 31.5 %, 4 = 12.8 %, 3 = 15.7 %,
             2 = 2.6 %, 1 = 10.5 %
      g.     Postal service - 0 = 2.6 %, 5 = 39.4 %, 4 = 21.0 %, 3 = 15.7 %, 2 = 2.6 %,
             1 = 13.3 %
      h.     School transportation - 0 = 10.5 %, 5 = 39.4 %, 4 = 18.4 %, 3 = 7.8 %,
             1 = 5.2 %
      i.     Telephone service - 0 = 2.6 %, 5 = 52.6 %, 4 = 18.4 %, 3 = 2.6 %.
             2 = 5.2 %, 1 = 2.6 %
      j.     Cellular service - 0 = 2.6 %, 5 = 23.6 %, 4 = 23.1 %, 3 = 26.0 %,
             2 = 2.6 %, 1 = 10.5 %
      k.     Other services: garbage removal, enforce against unlicensed vehicles

10.   Should the community consider providing recreation services?         Yes   21.0%

      No     68.4 %

                                              268
11.   List services that could be provided - Park (many times), public airport, ball fields, play
      equipment, rodeo arena, something to bring in money, recreation center, weight lifting,
      track, bowling alley, small library, pool tables, more park development

12.   How can you be best informed about meetings?

      a.     Word of mouth                                 63.1 %
      b.     Posting at the fire station                   36.8 %
      c.     Posting at the store                          52.6 %
      d.     At the mail boxes                             84.2 %
      e.     County web site                               26.3 %
      f.     Other: At the church, in church bulletins, e-mail to residents, U. S. Mail to
             residents, to the town council - have them tell others, newspaper

13.   Did you participate in the Vision Dixie planning program?      Yes 26.3 %
      No     71.0 %

14.   If you participated - your comments:          It was useful, we need to clean up, we need
      enforcement of current ordinances, let the residents decide where development is
      proposed

15.   Final comments:        Stay out of our business, less government, have competition for
      telephone services and not a monopoly, upgrade the water system, don'     t raise taxes,
      leave us alone, improvements should be made at the local level, improvements should be
      made at the town level, we need less restrictions, after twenty years, fence lines should
      be legal property lines. 500 North should be chip sealed, the county road has a 25 mph
      speed limit in town, and State Highway 18 has a 40 mile an hour speed limit in the same
      area.




            WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY SURVEY ANALYSIS
                                 FOR
                       THE COMMUNITY OF VEYO
                              2010 - 2011



                                               269
A meeting was held at the Veyo Water District Office on August 18, 2010. Most of those who
attended the meeting filled out the questionnaire that was passed out to those in attendance. The
forms could also be submitted on the county web site.

Following is an analysis of the forms that have been received by the county up to the present
time.

1.     Residency status:

       There was a rather broad range of residents attending the meeting in 2010 ranging from
       one to 50 years. Many of those attending had lived there for a large number of years with
       an average residence of about 14 years.

2.     Reasons for living in Veyo:

       The like for open space and a quiet community were the greatest reasons given for living
       in Veyo. Other reasons rating high by residents included the opportunity to keep
       livestock animals, a safe community and the small town atmosphere were also given high
       ratings. Other reasons receiving votes included living close to the mountains, and being
       close to family, friends, or neighbors. The lowest reasons for living in Veyo came from
       those born and raised there, and opportunities for recreation. There were additional
       reasons given by residents that were not shown in the questionnaire were such things as
       less restrictions, a beautiful valley, a place safe for children, clean air, being able to have
       gardens, orchards, pastures, chickens, cows, and putting up clothes lines, though the
       consultant wasn'   t aware that they were illegal elsewhere. All of the reasons given were
       good reasons for calling Veyo home.

3.     Should the rural atmosphere be preserved?

       This question was nearly unanimous in wanting to keep the rural atmosphere and to keep
       the community as it is.

       Some of the methods to maintain the rural character would indicate a lack of
       uderstanding of county policy.
       1.      No curb, gutter, or sidewalk - The County will not require these improvements on
       any of the current roadways in Veyo. The county will only require improvements if they
       are requested by the residents along a particular street, in which case the improvements
       will be paid for by those receiving the benefit of the improvement.
       2.      Leave the area alone - The County neither sponsor nor encourages any
       specific development. Developments are proposed by land owners. No land
       development will be started by the county.
       3.      Lower taxes - Space here does not permit a basic class on tax revenue in the State
       of Utah. Re-evaluation is mandated by the State of Utah. The General Fund property tax
       rate in Washington County has not been raised in the past decade, and in fact, the levy
       actually goes down each year based upon the Utah State tax formula.

                                                 270
     4.      Let the town make its own decisions - The best way to do this is for the
     community to incorporate. To incorporate or not is a community decision. The county
     will support whatever decision the community might make at some time.
     5.      Require minimum sized lots - This could be done in connection with any new
     development that is proposed for the area. The county however does not sponsor new
     development, and it is not likely that currently platter parcels will be re-zoned to a lower
     density because existing lots are what they are.
     6.      Limit water connections - Veyo maintains and operates its own water company.
     The company could limit connections based upon availability. However, a lot owner has
     the same right to a water connection should they decide to build, as does a current
     homeowner.
     7.      Allow no "cookie cutter" lots - This could happen if a development is
     proposed for the valley.

4.   Should farmland be preserved?

     The response to this question was, if anything, a greater majority in favor of preserving
     the agriculture than to maintain the rural character. Some of the ways to do this are a
     repeat of those in question #3 above. Others methods suggested include the following:
     1.       Have no land regulations - This would not serve to preserve farm areas. They
     would than be developed randomly and eventually the farm area would disappear.
     2.       Encourage livestock - In the agricultural areas livestock are a permitted use. It is
     not the purpose of the county to either encourage or discourage the keeping of livestock.
     If livestock keeping disappears from the valley, it will be done by the live stock owners
     selling their animals, or no livestock owners pressuring the livestock owners to eliminate
     the animals. This is not a county decision under the current ordinances.
     3.       Let owners decide - Whether or not to keep farming is a decision that will be
     made by the land owner. These are protections available for owners who want to farm.
     These include greenbelt designations, and the creation of agricultural protection areas
     which the county can assist in creating. The request for either of these methods begins
     with the land owner desiring protection. There are also land preserves which are done
     privately, but which will also provide continued use of farmland if the land owner is
     interested in pursuing them.

5.   Would you favor a system of walking/bicycle trails?

     The questionnaire response reflects some disagreement among respondents. A large
     majority feel that they are not necessary, and that the roads and trails in the community
     are adequate. This is a question that could be re-visited on a community basis.

6.   Concerns about various public issues.

     For a majority of these issues the residents responded that there would not appear to be a
     significant concern. The only issue receiving a high number or responses related to the
     unsafe use of OHV'  s in the community. The solution to this concern would appear to be

                                              271
      a local education program to bring the problem to the attention of the residents who can
      best control the problem with their family members.

7.    The question of commercial or industrial business also brought a divergence of opinion.
      Many said not to additional commercial use while others identified a desire for a variety
      of commercial businesses in the community. Whether any of these businesses would
      want to come to Veyo, depends upon the economic benefits to a developer as to whether
      or not they are feasible. If commercial development is proposed, the county would not
      likely oppose approving the business based on the community response.

8.    Where should commercial be located?

      There is not a lot of vacant land in the existing community center. Any site would
      need to be acceptable to the residents.

9.    Experience with local public services.

      Most of these services currently have a good service rating. All of the services should
      continue to make improvements to make their service better. None of the public services
      listed were given low ratings.

10.   Should the community provide recreation services?

      Most respondents said No. However a few listed things that they felt would be desirable.
      Keep in mind that there is a significant amount of park area in the community at this
      time. All it requires is someone to promote the development of some of the facilities that
      were suggested, or other facilities that would benefit the community.

11.   Facilities that could be provided. See comments in #10 above.

12.   How to best be informed about meetings.

      Posting at the mail boxes and word of mouth were the highest recommended methods.
      Residents need to become more used to using the county web site for staying informed.
      Mail is not an acceptable method because of the cost associated with mailing notices to
      all county residents.

13.   Did you participate with the Vision Dixie planning program?

      Most indicated that they did not, but a few residents indicated that they did participate.
      Of the "Westside" unincorporated communities, Veyo is the only one where citizens
      participated in the planning program. It is the residents of the community, or those
      acquiring land in the community, who make decisions as to what they want to do with
      their land. If left in the hands of the county, no changes will be made.


                                               272
14.   If you participated - your comments.           See #13 above for comments.

15.   Other comments.

      1.       To have the county "stay out of our business", and have less county government,
      implies that the community should seriously consider incorporation.
      2.       To have competition for telephone services in beyond the authority of county
      government.
      3.       The water system is not a county water system. The county has no authority to
      tell the water company that improvements are necessary.
      4.       Survey of existing property lines is an issue of the State rather than the county.
      Disputes between property owners relative to property lines are a civil matter to which
      the county is not a participant.
      5.       500 North was originally approved as an unpaved road. If the property owners
      along this street would like to have it paved, the county could help facilitate doing so, but
      the county will continue to maintain county roads in the manner in which they were
      originally dedicated.,
      6.       The road running west out of Veyo is a county road. The road running north and
      south through town is a State Highway. Any change in that speed limit on State Highway
      18 would be a decision by the Utah State Department of Transportation.




                                               273
                 WINCHESTER HILLS COMMUNITY GENERAL PLAN
                                 2010 - 2011

Introduction:

Winchester Hills is an unincorporated part of Washington County. Residents and others should
take time to review Section I of the county General Plan which discusses planning in general, the
basis for planning, and the purpose of planning. Many of the things mentioned in the beginning
of Section VII are relevant to residents of this part of the county. The Winchester Hills General
Plan provides guidelines for the future for this particular part of the county in addition to those
things that are applied county wide in the other sections of the General Plan.

The Winchester Hills Development is one of the more recent community developments in
Washington County. The first phase of 9 phases was recorded on April 7, 1980. The community
celebrated its 30th anniversary in April, 2010. It was originally started by a group of partners
including, Russ Walter, Pete Tolman, DeMar, and JEL. It was developed in phases over a period
of several years.

At the time the project was developed, Washington County did not require paved roadways. The
developers determined to pave the roads in their development as an incentive to purchasers,
which proved to be true. Unfortunately the county did not require curb and gutter either at that
point of time. The only real drawback to the paved roads was that curb and gutter, along with
the paved streets, would have eliminated many of the flooding problems that have existed since
the development began. Overall, however, it has been a very desirable development.

The development consisted of 9 different phases and 347 lots of approximately one acre in size.
In addition some larger lots have been divided into two lots creating a total of somewhat in
excess of 366 lots in the development.

Geology and Geography:

Winchester Hills is located in the south/central portion of Washington County. The main access
to Winchester Hills is from two exits on State Highway 18 between St. George and Enterprise.
The community is located about six miles north of the center of the City of St. George and is
bounded by St. George on the South, Bureau of Land Management land on the East,
Institutional Trust Land on the North, and Snow Canyon State Park and additional private land in
the City of St. George on the West.

The soil in Winchester Hills is essentially a blow sand layer situated above the Navajo Sandstone
aquifer from which most of the culinary water in the county is produced. Most of the land to the
north and north-east is steep hillside. A portion of the Institutional trust land to the north is
adjacent to Highway 18, and extends eastward on the steep bluff area. In terms of community
expansion, there is probably some of the trust land that could be developed adjacent to the


                                                274
community. Otherwise, Winchester Hills is very near "build out" as far as future growth is
concerned.

Population and growth:

In considering future build-out, the 366 lots in the community currently contain dwelling units
on one acre lots. Based on an average family size in Washington County of about 3.2 persons
per household, and lacking actual census data at this point, the General Plan would estimate the
current population of Winchester Hills to be approximately 1,022 residents. The current 34
vacant lots could account for, based on the same estimated family size, an additional 108
residents for a total number of residents approximating 1,312. Assuming that the buildable
portion of the Institutional Trust Land parcel north of Winchester Hills should develop along the
same pattern as the rest of the community, it could be possible to add some 100 lots and 300 plus
additional residents to the community. The State Trust Lands could add another 300 or more
residents giving the community perhaps as many as 1,600 or more residents.

Land Use:

There are essentially two categories of land use in Winchester Hills. One of these is low density
residential development which includes the subdivision areas in which lots were subdivided into
1 acre lots. The other land use category is open space which includes the steeper hillside areas
which are undeveloped, as well as the trust land areas, a part of which could be developed.

The subdivision was developed with lots large enough to allow the keeping of livestock, and is
presently zoned for animal use. In its early stages of development, a race track was proposed as
a part of the development, but was never constructed.

Open Space

The land to the east and north of the Winchester Hills subdivision is owned by the State
Institutional and Trust Lands organization. Much of the land is too steep to permit a significant
amount of development. One goal of the Winchester Hills community is to retain the steep
hillside areas in an open space land use category. The policy of the community is to oppose
development on the BLM land adjacent to the community.

One of the goals of the Vision Dixie project is to "guard our signature landscapes," and to
"provide rich, connected natural recreation and open space," which to residents of Winchester
Hills, includes much of the State lands east and north of the community.

There is some of Trust Land in the south-east corner of the Winchester Hills subdivision that is
flat enough that lots could be developed. However, there is no access to this land from the
subdivision. The only access would be from the land that has been incorporated into the City of
St. George. Development of this land could come through annexation to that city.



                                               275
There is another similar pocket of State Trust Land in the north-east corner of the subdivision
that could be developed similar to the parcel in the south-east corner of the subdivision. Again,
access to this parcel would be difficult except by accessing this land from the same access point
in St. George City as would be needed for the land in the south-east corner of the area. Much of
the other State land lying north of the Winchester Hills subdivision would appear to be too steep
for good development, the same as the Trust Land lying east of the subdivision.

There is additional State Institutional and Trust Land lying parallel to State Highway 18 and
running north of the Winchester Hills subdivision. This parcel is several thousand feet in length
and varies in width from about 500 feet to perhaps as wide as 1,500 feet. This parcel of land
could support development before the hillside becomes too steep, after which it should be
preserved in its present condition in order to meet the Vision Dixie recommendation to protect
steep hillside areas and view areas.

The General Plan would submit that the parcel is generally too narrow to support significant
residential development. Its location parallel to the Highway further negates the desirability for
residential development.

Because it appears as a narrow strip of land along the State Highway, it could possibly support
some type of commercial development. However the General Plan has never supported a strip
commercial development along any major highway. There would appear to be no reason why
commercial development would be successful in this location between Winchester Hills and
Diamond Valley.

However, the original developers of Winchester Hills still retain water rights in the water
company and storage rights in the Winchester Hills water storage tank. Perhaps the alternative
is:
1.      Would it be preferable to support development on the State Trust Land property where
there could likely be some 100 lots added to the community, and over which the community
would have some voice in the type and character of development, or;
2.      Let it annex to the City of St. Gorge, over which the Winchester Hills community would
have no voice in its development. In this case the water that is currently owned would most
likely be deeded to the City of St. George, giving them some ownership of the Winchester Hills
Water Company.

These constitute decisions that the community of Winchester Hills will some time have to face
and deal with. The BLM land adjacent to the State Trust Land is not likely to contain
development and could reasonably be expected to remain as open space.

Agricultural Land

Other than the keeping of livestock animals in Winchester Hills, there is no other significant
agricultural development on the one acre lots in the subdivision. Not all lot owners maintain
livestock on their property. However, one goal of the community is to maintain the right to have
and to maintain agricultural uses on the lots in the community. Obviously, the best way to allow

                                                276
this use to continue is to maintain the current zoning on the property which will preserve this
right.

Residential Development

The residential character of land in Winchester Hills is what it is. The development of this
subdivision was conceived as a low density development of essentially one acre lots to allow
residents to enjoy the open space feeling of the area and to allow, if desired, the keeping of a
limited number of livestock animals on their property. Because the subdivision is literally at
build-out with only 34 vacant lots remaining at the present time. There are no large areas of
undeveloped land that could support any other type of development except for the State Trust
land discussed above. The Vision Dixie process suggested as one of the development principles,
that there be areas with a "broad range of housing types to meet the needs of all income levels,
family types, and stages of life." Under normal conditions, and in the development of a "new"
community of significant size, this principle should be considered. Unfortunately, Winchester
Hills does not fit this pattern. It is currently at build out, no provision for this Dixie Principle
was employed in the original concept, and at this time, it simply does not fit. The low and
moderate income housing plan of Washington County is included as a county wide plan in
Section VII of the General Plan.

Another problem with the vision Dixie Principle listed above, in Winchester Hills is the waste
disposal problem, which this plan discusses in a later section, could not have been
accommodated in the Winchester Hills community development.

The residential goal in this community is to continue the character of development that was put
in place by the original developers. In order to accomplish this goal, the following policies could
be useful:
1.      Maintain the current zoning in the subdivision.
2.      Retain the open space character of existing and surrounding properties.

Even though the Vision Dixie project recommended developing a walk-able commercial or
mixed use community center within 3/4 mile of all homes, it would not be possible in
Winchester Hills unless there was a group of vacant lots near the center of the project that could
be converted to commercial development. In fact, about the only possible commercial land in
the area of Winchester Hills would be on the trust lands to the north of the community. Strip
commercial development on the trust land adjacent to Highway 18 would not be beneficial to the
community or to the traveling public.

Population and growth:

In considering future build-out, the 366 lots in the community currently contain dwelling units
on one acre lots. Based on an average family size in Washington County of about 3.2 persons
per household, and lacking actual census data at this point, the General Plan would estimate the
current population of Winchester Hills to be approximately 1,022 residents. The current 34
vacant lots could account for, based on the same estimated family size, an additional 108

                                                 277
residents for a total number of residents approximating 1,312. Assuming that the buildable
portion of the Institutional Trust Land parcel north of Winchester Hills should develop along the
same pattern as the rest of the community, it could be possible to add some 100 lots and 300 plus
additional residents to the community. The State Trust Lands could add another 300 or more
residents giving the community perhaps as many as 1,600 or more residents

Commercial Development

There is no commercial development in Winchester Hills. In fact, aside for a few vacant lots in
the area, there are no parcels of property where commercial development could take place.
Winchester Hills is essentially a "built-out" community. The comments from the residents
indicate that no commercial development is desired here. Originally, the developers set aside
land on the west side of Highway 18 for commercial use. That land was annexed to St. George
City. Whether of not it ever becomes commercial in nature is out of the hands of the residents of
this community and the county. Once the ledges development to the south, located in St. George
City develops, there could be commercial development as a part of that development plan.
Commercial development in the Ledges would not meet the Vision Dixie recommendation for
Winchester Hills, but would probably be as near, or nearer, than most Winchester residents
would desire.

There are a few home occupations in Winchester Hills that could be classified as somewhat
commercial in nature. These are cottage industries where most of the business is conducted over
the internet or else somewhere away from the community. These types of businesses will likely
continue. They do not involve employees working on the site, and they require little customer
parking, they do not advertise on site, and do not change the residential character of the
neighborhood.

Industrial Development

The residents of this community are not opposed to more manufacturing or industrial
development in Washington County, just not in, nor adjacent to Winchester Hills. With only
about 34 vacant lots in the subdivision, there is not a parcel of land in the area that could support
industrial development.

Vision Dixie Principle summary

1.     Plan regionally; implement locally - This General Plan for Winchester Hills is a local
       plan and part of the County General Plan.

2.     Maintain Air and Water quality, and conserve water - air and water quality in Winchester
       Hills is very good. In conserving water, it is noted that most of the lots in the
       development, except for a little landscaping immediately adjacent to a home, and some
       livestock facilities, the balance of each lot is covered with native growth, which requires
       no additional outside watering. Conservation of water is very high in Winchester Hills.


                                                 278
3.     Guard our signature landscapes - covered in the discussion of open space areas.

4.     Provide rich, connected natural recreation and open space - also covered in the discussion
       of open space, which surrounds the community.

5.     Build a balanced transportation system - really does not apply to this community by
       itself. The county has developed a county-wide transportation plan that includes the
       dedicated roadways in Winchester Hills as well as other necessary roads throughout the
       county. Refer to Section III of the General Plan to review the overall transportation
       plan for the county.

6.     Get centered by focusing on growth on walk-able, mixed-use centers - Mixed use centers
       cannot apply to Winchester Hills, the community is generally quite walk-able as it is.

7.     Direct growth inward - this was a stand alone subdivision. It has virtually reached build
       out at the present time. There are no plans for additional development outside the current
       subdivision.

8.     Provide a broad range of housing types - has been discussed in relation to the residential
       section of the plan.

9.     Reserve areas for industry - discussed in the section dealing with industrial development.

10.    Deals with public land conversion - none is proposed nor needed for the build-out of
       future growth of the community.

       As an existing community prior to the Vision Dixie Plan, the community has met as
       many of the planning principles as it is possible to meet under the current situation.

Public Services:

The public services in the unincorporated areas of the county are discussed at the beginning of
Section VII of the General Plan, dealing with public services throughout the entire
unincorporated area of the county. There are some of the services that should be mentioned
specifically in most of the communities, including Winchester Hills. These are discussed as
follows:

Water:
The water company in this community is a mutual water company. That means that each
property owner is also the owner of a share in the water company. As part of the original
development, a large storage tank was constructed on the hill above the community. It has
sufficient capacity to supply the subdivision if there was a home on each and every lot in the
community.



                                               279
Should it become necessary to acquire supplementary water, it is proposed by the General Plan
that the Water Conservancy District run a water line up Highway 18 to serve areas north of
Winchester Hills, in which case Winchester Hills could arrange to acquire water from the
District during any period when the present system was down for repairs.

Liquid Waste:
Winchester Hills is served through the use of septic tanks. Septic tanks, if properly maintained,
can be a successful means of sewage disposal. The General Plan supports the recommendation
of the State Department of Environmental Quality which recommends that septic tanks should be
checked on an annual basis, and pumped whenever necessary.

The largest concern in Winchester Hills is the fact that the community sits on a blow sand base
located over the top of the Navajo Sandstone formation. This is the formation from which most
of out culinary water is produced that serves the county. Geologists have plotted the direction of
the flow of water under Winchester Hills. It generally flows in a southeastern direction. This
means that if pollution should show up in the underground water supply, it may first become
noticeable southeast of this area, somewhere in the vicinity of the City of Washington. There are
a number of wells above the city, as well as additional wells belonging to the City of St. George.
According to geologists, these sources would be the most likely to show initial contamination
from the Winchester Hills area.

In July of 2000, a waste water study was completed for most of the unincorporated subdivisions
in the county. In Winchester Hills, the study was based upon 311 total building lots which have
been exceeded by over 50 lots at the present time. If any more lots were proposed to be
subdivided using septic tanks for waste disposal, it would likely require that they would be
served by an on-site waste disposal system in order to gain approval for development. This
could include any of the State and Institutional Trust Land that might be proposed for
development unless the soils condition on the Trust Lands along the foot hills, proved to be
different than that found on the valley floor.

Electricity
Electrical service is provided to Winchester Hills from the Rocky Mountain Power Co. Citizen
comments indicate that there is a degree of dissatisfaction with the electrical needs of the
community. The General Plan recommends Rocky Mountain Power evaluate its service to the
community and plan for whatever corrections or additions need to be made.

The use of cellular phone is another area in which citizen dissatisfaction was evidenced through
the citizen comments that were given to the county. The General Plan recommends that the
cellular providers look at the Winchester Hills area in terms of providing the highest quality
service possible to this area. If additional facilities are needed to be constructed, companies
should work through the county to achieve a higher degree of service. The General Plan would
support an additional cellular tower in the Winchester Hills or the Ledges area which location is
currently under discussion by the developers of that project.



                                               280
Other services provided in the community received high ratings through citizen comments.
These services include ambulance and emergency medical services, fire protection, garbage
collection, law enforcement, postal service, and school transportation.

Roadways are generally satisfactory on the existing local road system. The OHV use of the
roads in Winchester Hills has not caused significant local problems that cannot be resolved
locally. There is not an influx of people from outside the community that come there to ride
their OHV' s as there is in some other communities in the counties where the use of OHV' s by
"outsiders" creates a significant problem.

Recreation facilities in Winchester Hills are minimal at the present time. There does not appear
to be any great desire for the development of parks and recreation areas, walking trails, or
specific bicycle routes outside of the present roadway system. One reason for these feelings is
because of the open space character of the community and the accessibility of open space
recreation opportunities adjacent to the community on the public lands.

One of the areas of citizen concern involves the ability of the county to notify citizens of county
activities and programs, particularly meetings, involving residents of the community. Currently,
the most useful method is by word of mouth from one resident to another. Several other methods
have been recommended which include the following:
1.      Posting on the county website, or county submitting of advertising to individual
        computer E-mail systems.
2.      Posting at the mail boxes
3.      Posting with large lettering at the entrances to the community.
4.      Newer posting suggestions for posting methods include such things as through cellular
        advances such as facebook, twitter, and any other newer communication methods.

Annexation / Incorporation
Winchester Hills was given the opportunity to annex to St. George City a number of years ago
when the ledges property became part of St. George. At that time the citizens determined to
remain as a part of the unincorporated area of the county even though the St. George City
annexations abutted Winchester Hills on the south and west sides.

If annexation should become desirable in the future, annexation to St. George City is still an
option. In addition, should the community of Diamond Valley incorporate, Winchester Hills
could consider becoming part of a new Diamond Valley city.

Two other options are also available and will continue to be options. One is to remain
unincorporated in the same situation as presently exists. The other option in this case would be
for Winchester Hills to incorporate itself into its own city or town. There are other incorporated
towns in the county that are about the same size or smaller than Winchester Hills would be.
There are also other cities in the county that are essentially land locked including such cities as
Ivins, Santa Clara, and the town of Springdale and Hildale in the eastern part of the county.



                                                281
The decision as whether to follow any of the above options, with the exception of remaining as
an unincorporated community, requires action on the part of the residents of Winchester Hills.
No one, except those living here and owning the property here, can affect any of the possible
options. They are totally local options for the residents of the area to consider. They are
identified as a part of the General Plan for the purpose of making citizens aware of what
possibilities exist, without making any specific recommendation on the part of the General Plan.

Winchester Hills, as it currently exists, is welcome to continue to remain unincorporated. This
may be the most comfortable option inasmuch as the strengths and weaknesses of being part of
the county are known factors, and are least likely to cause change in the community. The county
is in the position of supporting any other option that the area may want to consider now, or at any
time in the future.

Winchester Hills turned down the opportunity to annex to St. George City a number of years ago,
and determined to remain as a part of the unincorporated area of the county. Since that time, the
city has annexed land immediately south and west of this area. Should annexation become
desirable at a future time, the only obvious choice would be to become a part of the City of St.
George. If Diamond Valley to the north incorporated, that could also be an option as would
incorporation as a "stand alone" town. Any decision as to whether or not Winchester Hills
should or should not annex to another entity, to incorporate, or to remain unincorporated, is a
local decision to be made by the residents of the community.


                    WASHINGTON COUNTY - COMMUNITY SURVEY
                                2010 / 2011

1.     Residency status

       a.      How many years have you lived in this location? 15 yrs. average.
       b.      Number in your family 4 average.
       c.      Home owner 100% yes Yes
       d.      Land owner only (no home) 1ot - also homeowner on adjacent lot
               1.    Approximate number of acres owned 1 ac. average.
               2.    Percent acres currently farmed 1.25 ac.- one owner
               3.    Percent open space, vacant, or grazed .5 ac.

2.     Please mark characteristics that you value the most or that help you choose to live or own
       property in this area

        12.5 %   Born or raised in the area - family roots
        33.3 %   Close to family, friends, or neighbors
        75,0 %   Close to the mountains, National Forest, and the National Park
        87.5 %   Like the open space
        75.0 %   The opportunity to have animals - horses, etc.
        87.5 %   Quiet community

                                               282
     62.5 % Recreational opportunities
     75.0 % Safe environment
     75.0 % Small town atmosphere
           __Others low light pollution

3.   Should the rural character of the community be preserved? 87.5 % Yes
     If Yes, How do you propose to do this? _Keep horses, keep lot size as it is, Minimize
     government involvement, Keep the city out.___________

4.   Should any existing farm land be preserved? 75 %       Yes
     If yes, how should it be done? _Allow it to continue_____________________
     _______________________________________________________________
     _______________________________________________________________

5    Would you favor developing a system of walking / bicycle trails throughout the
     community? 42.8 % Yes or No 57.1 %

4.   Please rank (on a scale of 1 - 5, your concerns on each of the following: traffic, safety,
     street and road issues. Most concerned = 5, Least concerned = 1, No problem = 0

     a.     Off-Highway vehicles on streets and roads 0 = 50%, 2 = 25 %, 4 = 12.5 %, 5 =
            12.5%

     b.     Speeding vehicles / traffic control O = 50%, 2 = 25%, 4 = 12.5%, 5 = 12.5%
     c.     Road and street condition 0 = 12.5 %, 2 = 12.5%, 3 = 12.5%, 4 = 50%, 5 =
            12.5%
     d.     Unlawful/unsafe behavior by OHV riders 0 = 50%, 2 = 12.5%, 3 = 12.5%, 5 =
            12.5%
     e.     Dedication of presently undedicated roads 1 = 37.5%, 2 = 25%, 3 = 25%, 5 =
            12.5%
     f.     Other Issues

7.   List commercial businesses, or industrial/manufacturing businesses, if any, that you think
     are needed, or desirable, to serve the residents and visitors to this community.

     a.     None = 100 % (This is not saying there should be no industrial development in
            the county, just none in the Winchester Hills area)
     b.     ____________________________________________________________
     c.     ____________________________________________________________
     d.     ____________________________________________________________
     e.     ____________________________________________________________
     f.     ____________________________________________________________

8.   Where should businesses or industries identified above be located?     In St. George or
     Veyo. On existing commercial land, not in Winchester Hills.

                                              283
9.    Please rate on a scale of 1 to five your perception or experience with the following local
      services as they relate to the area. Excellent = 5, Poor = 1, No Experience = 0

      a.     3 = 28.5 %.4 = 38.5 %, 5 = 42.8% Ambulance/emergency medical
      b.     4 = 42.8%, 5 = 57.1% Drinking water service and quality
      c.     1 = 28.1%, 2 = 14.2%, 3 = 57.1% Electrical power service
      d.     4 = 71.4 %, 5 = 28.5 % Fire protection
      e.     3 = 14.4%, 4 = 14.2%. 5 = 71.4% Garbage collection
      f.     2 = 28.5%, 3 = 28.5%, 3 = 42.8% Law enforcement
      g.     3 = 28.5%, 4 = 28.5%. 5 = 42.8% Postal Service
      h.     3 = 50%, 5 = 50% School transportation
      i.     3 = 14.2%, 4 = 28.5%, 5 = 57.1% Telephone service
      j.     1 = 42.8 %, 2 = 14.4%, 3 = 28.5%, 4 = 14.2% Cell phone service
      k.             Other - list -

10.   Should the community consider providing recreation facilities/opportunities for residents
      of this area? 28.5 % Yes or No 71.4 %

11.   If the answer to #10 was yes, list up to three community facilities that you think are
      desirable?

      a.      Existing park bathrooms, add a park, add trails
      b.
      c

12.   How can you best be informed about meetings, times, agendas, events, issues, etc.
      affecting the community? Check all that may apply.

      a.      33.3 %  Word of mouth - neighbors and friends
      b.      11.1 %  Notices posted at fire station
      c.              Notices posted at a store, if existing
      d.      44.4 % Notices posted at mail boxes
      e.      11.1 %___Posting on the Internet
      f.               Other - List


13.   Did you participate in the recent Vision Dixie planning program? _16.6%_Yes/No 83.3%

14.   If you did participate, what two or three things did you find valuable about the study, or
      about things that the community should do to comply with the study?
      They listened to the public, it was good that they were trying to involve the people.
      ____________________________________________________________



                                              284
15.    Any final comments relative to concerns that you would like to have considered in the
       General Plan study?
       a connection from Highway 18 to I-15 would be good, do not annex to St. George, no
       commercial in Winchester Hills, do not change our way of life.

       __________________________________________________________________

16.    Name of community:


Thank you for your participation! Results of this questionnaire will be provided at a future
community meeting.


                    WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMUNITY SURVEY
                                    FOR
                     THE COMMUNITY OF WINCHESTER HILLS
                                  2010-2011

On August 3, 2010, staff members of the county planning department met with citizens of the
community of Winchester Hills at the fire station. The group was rather small, but those present
entered into a healthy discussion of the Winchester Hills community. Following is a summary of
the questions and comments that were responded to by those present.

The length of time that the community members had lived in the community ranged from a low
of 3 years to a high of 18 years, providing a good cross-section of the community.

The size of family ranged from 3 up to 8. The average family size was about 4, which is a little
higher than the average for the county as a whole.

All of the residents were home owners with at least 1 owner having an additional vacant lot
adjacent to their home.

The agricultural use of land was negligible inasmuch as lot sizes are, for the most part, 1 acre
lots. What small amount that might exist should be maintained.

A large number of reasons were given for living in Winchester Hills. These included such things
as being born or raised in the area, close to family, friends, or neighbors, close to the mountains
and the forest, and State or National Parks, because of the open space feeling in the community,
recreational opportunities, the ability to have livestock animals, particularly horses, a quiet
community life, a safe environment (in spite of mountain lions being seen), the small town
atmosphere, and a dark night sky.




                                                285
All respondents to the questionnaire agreed that the rural character of the community should be
preserved. Some ways to do this included, the continued keeping of livestock, maintain the lot
sizes, remain unincorporated.

A few of the respondents were in favor of developing a trail system in the area; the majority was
not in favor of a trail system.

Relative to roadways, most respondents se quite satisfied with the existing condition and
maintenance of roads, Most have no serious concern relative to the use of off highway vehicle
riders in Winchester Hills.


While more industrial or commercial business may be good in Washington County, none should
be located in the Winchester Hills area. St. George and Veyo were suggested areas for such
development.

Public Services getting high ratings in the community in terms of satisfaction of service include
Ambulance service, drinking water service and quality, fire protection, garbage collection, law
enforcement, the postal service, school transportation and telephone service. Less than high
rankings went to electrical service, and cell phone service.

Relative to local recreation facilities, residents were mostly satisfied with existing facilities.

Most respondents did not participate in the Vision Dixie program. One comment however
indicated that it was good that they attempted to involve the public in the Vision Dixie project.

Being made aware of things going on in Winchester Hills is important to all participants in the
questionnaire form. Solutions to this problem receiving the most support include word of mouth,
notice posted at mail boxes, plus a bulletin board at both entrances to the community posted at
the entrances with large print posters. One resident offered to make the bulletin boards available.

A few citizen comments not specifically related to the questions asked:
     •   A connection between Hwy. 18 and I-15 in this area would be nice.
     •   No commercial development
     •   No industrial development
     •   Bathrooms in the current park would be nice
     •   Maintain home occupations
     •   No more wilderness
     •   Keep State land open
     •   Keep the area rural
     •   No annexation
     •   Not happy with the federal policy on fires and grazing




                                                  286
                  Maps:
Washington County General Plan
Arterial and Collector Roads
Motorized Off Road Vehicle Roads
Special Use Roads
Non-Motorized Trails
Wild and Scenic Rivers
*Current and Future Utility Routes
Community Plans:
     Brookside / Pine Valley Mountain Farms
     Central / Dixie Deer
     Cliffdwellers /Grassy Meadows Sky Ranch
     Dammeron Valley
     Diamond Valley
     East Enterprise
     Gunlock
     Harmony Valley
     Kolob Mountain
     Pine Valley
     Pintura / 1-15 Freeway Corridor
     Veyo
     Winchester Hills




                    287
                                          Ap p e n d i x I
                  GENERAL ANALYSIS OF EACH WILDERNESS AREA

The lands bill enacted by the United States in March, 2009, identified fifteen separate wilderness
areas within the boundaries of Washington County. One of these, the Cottonwood Canyon
Forest wilderness area, is located on National Forest land. Another one, The Watchman, has
been included into Zion National Park along with most of the National Park.

Because not everyone has access to a list of the wilderness areas, nor a map showing the
wilderness locations, this section of the General Plan is devoted to a brief identification of each
area, using Bureau of Land Management criteria, where available, to introduce the Washington
County wilderness areas to the public. These reviews may be accessed through this document,
or through the electronic copy of the General Plan found on the Washington County Web Site
under the heading “General Plan 2010.” Hopefully, this information will be helpful to those
desiring to learn more about each wilderness area including size, location, size, and other
information.

Of the fifteen sites designated by Congress, most of them were originally recommended in one
form or another by the Bureau of Land Management following a very thorough study of each
area. In an effort to provide information to the public, each of these areas is reviewed in this
section of the General Plan. Only in those areas not recommended by the Bureau of Land
Management, is the information not fully available, and therefore is of a reduced nature.

Based upon their small size, a number of the designated areas do not qualify for wilderness
designation on their own, but are contiguous with other federally managed area that were
recommended for wilderness designation in one form or another by the Bureau of Land
Management n a very thorough study of each area. As a result of federal court action, the BLM
was required to address them in its final wilderness review and, subsequent land use planning
processes. By not being included within the National Park, the areas are still available for such
public uses as hunting and fishing. The county does expect that each of these small areas will
generally be managed in conjunction with the much larger areas now designated within the park
boundaries. Each of these areas also contains a stream segment designated under the wild and
scenic rivers act and would be subject to collaborative management between the BLM and the
park service over the entire stream segments in accordance with the BLM’s 1999 RMP and the
Park’s 2001 General Management Plan. These small areas include Beartrap Canyon, Goose
Creek, LaVerkin Creek, and Taylor Creek.




                                                 288
This table provides a list of each site, listed alphabetically, including the approximate size of the
wilderness area. The map also included in this section of the General Plan, identifies the
physical location of each wilderness area in the county.




                                        TABLE IV

                                  BLM Wilderness Areas

                          Black Ridge                    13,015 acres
                       Beartrap Canyon                       40 acres
                      Canaan Mountain                   44,531. acres
                     Cottonwood Canyon                  11,712 acres
                  Cottonwood Canyon Forest                2,645 acres
                       Cougar Canyon                    10,409 acres
                         Deep Creek                       3,284 acres
                      Deep Creek North                    4,262 acres
                          Docs Pass                     17,294 acres
                    Goose Creek Canyon                       98 acres
                       LaVerkin Creek                      445 acres
                          Red Butte                      1,537 acres
                        Red Mountain                    18,729 acres
                       Slaughter Creek                    3,901 acres
                         Taylor Creek                        32 acres
                        TOTAL BLM
                       WILDERNESS:                     131,932 ACRES




               Note: Actual acreage is approximate until a final survey
                     Of each area has been officially completed by the BLM.
                     It does not include the Zion Park wilderness.

Following is an outline of each of the wilderness areas in Washington County located on land
managed by the Bureau of Land Management:



                                                 289
                                          Black Ridge

I.    Area Description:

      The Black Ridge wilderness area is located essentially along the top of the “Black
      Ridge”, as it is called, running parallel to the Interstate 15 Freeway, along the top of the
      ridge on its easterly side. The designated wilderness area crosses over LaVerkin Creek
      Canyon east of the black ridge (not to be confused with the LaVerkin Creek wilderness
      area) and is bounded on the east by the east rim of the canyon and private land in the
      “Hurricane Mesa” dry farming area. On the south are private land and the Hurricane
      Mesa rocket test site. On the north is a part of Zion National Park. The Black Ridge
      wilderness area was not recommended by the Bureau of Land Management, nor was it
      recommended by Washington County. Rather, it was added by the act of Congress.
      However, there was a partial review by the BLM which provides the information for this
      review.

II.   Wilderness Characteristics:

      A.     Size:

             The wilderness area contains 13,015 acres of land. It is approximately two to
             three miles wide from west to east and eight miles long from north to south.
             All of the in-holdings have previously been removed.

             The elevation along the Black Ridge and the dry farming area is about 5,900 feet
             to a low in the bottom of LaVerkin Creek of about 3,200 feet.

      B.     Naturalness:

             The area is mostly in a natural condition. There are no buffer zones around the
             wilderness area. Outside influences include the sights and sounds of the Interstate
             Freeway to the west and below the rim of the Black Ridge, the test site and
             transmitting towers on the south edge, and farming operations east of the rim on
             the east side. There is also adjacent private land in the bottom of LaVerkin Creek,
             which may also impede access to the wilderness area itself.

      C.     Solitude:

             Some areas of solitude exist on top of the Black Ridge, although it is too narrow
             to offer much solitude. Some areas of solitude can be found in the LaVerkin
             creek canyon below. A commercial airline route along I-15 may interfere with
             solitude on top of the rim. There is no buffer zone created by Congress.
             Therefore solitude may be marginal in many parts of the wilderness area, and may
             be fairly good in others, depending upon the definition of solitude.


                                               290
              D.      Primitive and Unconfined Recreation:

              For the most part, the wilderness area would provide for primitive and unconfined
              recreation. It is possible, in most parts of the wilderness area, to find areas where
              the sights and sounds “of the world” may be mostly shut off. The area is large
              enough that there are pockets of true wilderness within the wilderness boundary.

       E.     Special Features:

              This wilderness area lacks many of the special features found in other wilderness
              areas. Because of its connection to Zion National Park along the northern border,
              the area does offer some of the scenic views found within many areas of the Park.

III.   Socio-Economics:

       All private and some state lands have previously been graded out of this unit. No rights-
       of-way are known to exist in this area. The individual economic impact on Washington
       County from the Black Ridge wilderness area in and of itself is minimal. The mineral,
       sand and gravel, deposits found along the base of the Black Ridge on the freeway side of
       the ridge, have significant economic value to the county and make up some of the most
       valuable sand and gravel mineral deposits available for future county development.

IV.    Manageability:

       Black Ridge wilderness area can generally be effectively managed to preserve its
       wilderness character. Access is somewhat difficult inasmuch as the natural access
       through the town of Toquerville, is largely cut off by private property. A determination
       will need to be made by the BLM and the county as to the access into the wilderness area
       from the roadway along LaVerkin Creek. Some access could be made available to the
       east rim of the canyon through the dry farming area, most of which is private property.
       Limited access and areas of marginal wilderness quality will make the area easier for the
       BLM to manage. The Black Ridge wilderness area will likely be found near the bottom
       of the list of “must see” wilderness areas in Washington County. Many of the small
       wilderness areas offer much more in terms of wilderness qualities than does the Black
       Ridge.




                                               291
                                      Beartrap Canyon

I.    Area Description:

      The Beartrap Canyon Wilderness area is located in the northeast corner of Washington
      County. The area is adjacent to Zion National Park. It is bounded by the National Park
      on the west and by private lands on the north, south, and east.

      The deep drainage of upper Beartrap Canyon dominates the area. The canyon rims and
      vertical walls of Navajo Sandstone rise 1,300 feet above the creek. High cliffs prohibit
      access from the area into Zion National Park.

II.   Wilderness Characteristics:

      A.     Size:

             The area contains 40 acres of public land managed by the Bureau of Land
             Management. It is approximately 0.5 miles wide from east to west, and 0.33
             miles from north to south.

      B.     Naturalness:

             The area is in a natural condition, with no human imprints.

      C.     Solitude:

             The area is an extremely small parcel of land at the head of Beartrap Canyon.
             Opportunities for solitude are very good throughout the entire canyon. These
             opportunities may be dependent upon the contiguous land of Zion National Park.

      D.     Primitive and unconfined recreation:

             The rugged, scenic qualities of the area offer recreational opportunities along the
             canyon bottom for hiking, backpacking and photography.

      E.     Special Features:

             The scenic qualities of Beartrap Canyon are especially notable, particularly the
             depth and narrowness of the canyon, its riparian habitat, and hanging gardens.




                                              292
III.   Socio Economics:

             There is no state of private in-holdings, sub-surface rights-of-way in the Beartrap
             Canyon Wilderness. The land is presently used for unconfined and primitive
             forms of outdoor recreation and wildlife habitat. No individual adverse economic
             impact on Washington County is anticipated from the designation of this area as
             wilderness. The only economic related activity in the wilderness area is recreation.

       IV.   Manageability:

             Beartrap Canyon, along with all of the small wilderness areas lying north and east
             of Zion National Park, can be managed to preserve the wilderness characteristics
             that exist there. Access is very difficult and visitor use has been very limited.
             Because of its remote location and qualification for wilderness in connection with
             similar wilderness classifications for wilderness, it is not expected that the
             management and use of the area will change materially as a designated wilderness.




                                              293
                                     Canaan Mountain:

I.    Area Description:

      The Canaan Mountain Wilderness Area is on land managed by the Bureau of Land
      Management. It comprises approximately 44,531 acres as depicted in the Washington
      County General Plan Map.

      The Canaan Mountain Wilderness Area is located in the extreme south-east corner of
      Washington County, running northward to a co-boundary with Zion National Park It is
      contiguous in part with the State of Arizona along the southern boundary, except for the
      incorporated town of Hildale. It is bounded on the east by Kane County and on the west
      by the incorporated town of Apple Valley. Some of the wilderness lies inside the town
      limits of Apple Valley. The wilderness area is located about 25 miles west of Kanab, in
      Kane County.

      Canaan Mountain is a beautiful plateau that towers 2,000 feet above the surrounding
      lands. From the top of the plateau, a panorama of Zion National Park, the Arizona Strip,
      and the Pine Valley Mountains are visible. There is a variety of vegetation, including
      hanging gardens, ponderosa pine, Douglas fir, aspen, maple, and pinion pine.

II.   Wilderness Characteristics:

      A.     Size:

             The wilderness area, as approved is 44,531 acres in size. It is about ten miles
             wide from east to west, and is about nine miles long from north to south.

      B.     Naturalness:

             Canaan Mountain is the largest undisturbed plateau top or tableland remaining in
             southwest Utah. It possesses a quality of remoteness and naturalness not found
             any where else in the immediate region. It is in a natural condition with one
             major exception, and a few minor ones.

             Past human activity includes vehicular tracks from the east side of the mesa to the
             cable and sawmill site on the westerly side, a house trailer, fences, and a historical
             cable lumber lowering operation from the top to the bottom of the plateau. These
             activities encompass a very small portion of the overall area.

      C.     Solitude:

             The wilderness area affords outstanding opportunity for solitude. The plateau on
             Canaan Mountain is a large, rough, sandstone area that gives the visitor a feeling

                                              294
     of isolation. Slotted walls of the vermillion cliffs and talus slopes at the base of
     the cliffs also provide for solitude. Several deep, narrow, and thickly vegetated
     canyons that penetrate the plateau provide seclusion.

D.   Primitive and Unconfined Recreation:

     A large part of the Canaan Mountain provides outstanding opportunity for hiking,
     horseback riding; rock climbing, photography, bird watching, and sightseeing.
     Areas suitable for backpacking are the most extensive, but backpacking is
     somewhat limited to canyon and plateau tops because of the rugged terrain.
     Scenic quality is outstanding throughout the area, and is the main objective of
     hiking. Among the scenic features are the cliffs, large expanses of slick rock, and
     waterfalls during period of heavy storm, abrupt rock rims with views of Zion
     National Park and the Arizona Strip.

E.   Special Features:

     1.     Scenery, similar to scenery in Zion National Park is a significant
            characteristic of the wilderness area. The summit of the Canaan Mountain
            is an essentially intact expanse, unlike the much smaller, separated plateau
            remnants in Zion National Park.

     2.     The lumbering operation that existed on the mountain from 1904 to about
            1928 has important historical value, and is a significant part of the
            customs and culture of Washington County. Conceived by David
            Flanigan, he constructed a windlass and pulley system onto the westerly
            side of the mountain. It was used to lift men, equipment, and supplies
            2,000 feet upward to the top of the mountain. As many as 25 men were
            employed there. By 1906, as much as 200,000 feet of timber had been
            lowered to the base of what was by then called Cable Mountain. The
            lumber was cut, and then hauled for construction purposes to settlements
            up the river and down the river as far away as St. George. In later years,
            logs up to four feet in diameter were harvested from this area, and used to
            make shingles from a shingle mill set up at the base of the mountain.
            Access to this historic site would be from an existing ORV trail crossing
            the mesa. This trail has been used by many groups for forty years or more
            years prior to the current wilderness designation. Access to this historic
            site is from the Kane County side of the mountain.

     3.     Smithsonian Butte is a special landmark land feature that is included in the
            Canaan Mountain Wilderness area. The boundary of the wilderness area
            was enlarged in order to include this special land feature as a part of the
            wilderness. It has actually been annexed into the town of Apple Valley in
            order to provide additionally protection. Except for some animal life,


                                      295
                     vegetation, and bird nesting, many of the standard features of wilderness
                     such as size, solitude, naturalness, recreation, etc., do not exist around
                     Smithsonian Butte. It belongs in the wilderness area because of what it is,
                     and not because it qualifies for special protection on its own.
              4.     Another historic site exists in the Canaan Mountain area near the north-
                     corner of the area known as the Mail Drop. At one point the pony express
                     rider coming out of Kane County, rode to the edge of the Canaan
                     Mountain ridge and dropped the mail over the edge. The mail was picked
                     up near the town of Schunesburg, and delivered to communities all along
                     the Virgin River. This practice of using the mail drop continued for
                     several years. This site is also accessed from the Kane County side of
                     Canaan Mountain.

III.   Socio-Economics:

       One private in-holding remains inside the designated area.
       No individual adverse economic impact on Washington County is anticipated from the
       designation of this area as wilderness.

IV.    Manageability:

       A.     The area can be effectively managed to preserve all wilderness values now
              present in the wilderness area. Continued use of the range land and livestock
              grazing would not significantly affect wilderness management. One private in-
              holding remains inside the designated area.

       B.     The nearly 100 year old historic lumber site creates a different situation. In all of
              the wilderness areas and formerly wilderness study areas, it has always been a
              common practice to “cherry stem” access-ways into the area in order to create
              wilderness. The same situation exists on Canaan Mountain. The most difficult
              area to maintain as wilderness in Washington County is the current trail across the
              plateau from the easterly to the westerly side. This type of facility is much like
              other timber producing activities found in areas of the county. Residents of the
              county and visitors to the county want to use off-road vehicles to visit the site of
              early resident activity. It is a part of the culture and customs of the county that
              should be preserved and made accessible to those desiring to visit the site. The
              General Plan recommends that access be provided, and is prepared to discuss
              methods by which is can accomplished.




                                               296
                                     Cottonwood Canyon

I.     Area Description:

       The Cottonwood Canyon wilderness area is located in south-central Washington County
       approximately 3 miles north of the city of Washington. The area is characterized by
       sharp, steep and jagged exposures of Navajo Sandstone, with elevations ranging from
       3,200 feet to 4,870 feet. The area is situated near the southeastern base of the Pine Valley
       Mountains, which tower above it. It also borders the developed camping portion of the
       BLM Red Cliffs Recreation area on the east. It is bounded by the Dixie National Forest
       on the north and by additional BLM, State, and private land on the south and west.

II. Wilderness Characteristics:

       A.     Size.

              This wilderness area contains 11,712 acres of land managed by the Bureau of
              Land Management. It is approximately 7 miles wide from east to west, and three
              miles wide from north to south.

       B.     Naturalness:

              For the most part, the area is in a natural condition with few noticeable human
              imprints, and contains a high quality of naturalness.

       C      Solitude:

              Topographic screening makes the opportunity for solitude outstanding in this
              wilderness area. The screening is associated with the exposures of Navajo
              Sandstone. The sights and sounds of human activities are not present from most
              places. From the higher points of the area, traffic on I-15 can be observed. Noise
              from aircraft is not considered to be significant or impairing to wilderness values
              since few small planes per day fly over the area. Most of the heads of drainages
              in Mill Creek and Washington Hollow provide solitude. Other opportunities are
              also found in the upper Heath Wash, in the rim areas in the lower Cottonwood
              Canyon area, and in the cliff area south of Quail Creek.

       D.     Primitive and Unconfined Recreation:

              The opportunity for primitive recreation is outstanding in portions of the
              wilderness area because the canyon hiking activity is of outstanding quality. The
              cottonwood heath canyon area contains superior hiking opportunities. It is more
              limited in the Washington hollow-mill creek complex.


                                               297
       E.     Special Features:

              The wilderness area is rated class A for scenic quality. The exposed Navajo
              sandstone cliffs provide scenic beauty. Bird watching, especially the bald eagle
              and peregrine falcon are seen in this area.

III.   Socio-Economics:

       There are still issues with existing water development that need to be resolved as a part of
       the BLM Management Plan. The county General Plan recommends that the BLM work
       closely with the county and city officials to resolve concerns that may still exist with
       water or land ownership. The land bill does not provide for new water development.
       There are no existing in-holdings in the wilderness area.

       One critical economic component of concern to the county is to identify, on cooperation
       and coordination with the public agencies, one or more northern transportation routes
       across the county from east to west, as required by Congressional action. The General
       Plan recommends that the public agencies that may be involved, work closely with the
       county and the cities involved in identifying this route within the framework set out by
       Congress.

IV.    Manageability:

       The Cottonwood Canyon wilderness area would appear to create no serious management
       challenges. The major challenge may be to determine how best to manage the area
       inasmuch as it is completely inside the current desert tortoise reserve, and has been
       placed in a national conservation area by the action of Congress. The Section 10 permit
       for the HCP tortoise recovery is scheduled to expire in 2016. The General Plan
       recommends that this become a natural transition from the current management plan to
       the new management plan with the County still acting as the land coordinator in close
       cooperation and coordination with the various public agencies that are currently involved
       in its management. It is expected that the BLM, working closely with the county and the
       other public agencies, will work out the details of how to make this transaction come
       about in a natural, seamless manner.




                                               298
                               Cottonwood Canyon Forest

I.   Area Description:

     The Forest Service Cottonwood Wilderness area is immediately adjacent to the BLM
     Cottonwood Wilderness area near the north-east corner of the BLM wilderness area.

     II. Wilderness Characteristics:

     A.     Size:

             According to the land bill, the area contains 2,643 acres, and is somewhat
            “square” in size.

     B.     Naturalness:

            The area is in a natural condition with a high quality of naturalness.

     C.     Solitude:

            Topographic screening makes the opportunity for solitude very high in this area.
            The area is composed of a series of badly fractured sandstone ravines. The
            county concurred that, attached to the cottonwood wilderness area, it qualified for
            wilderness designation. The one detraction to solitude is the overflight of
            commercial airlines and private air planes approaching or departing from the
            current St. George. This flight pattern could change with the completion of the
            new airport in 2011.

            D.      Primitive and unconfined recreation:

                    There is good opportunity for primitive recreation in this wilderness area
                    because of the difficulty of access to and travel within the area.

            E.      Special Features:

                    The wilderness area is rated A for scenic quality. The exposed Navajo
                    Sandstone cliffs provide scenic beauty. Bird watching should be excellent
                    in this area.

     III.   Socio-Economics:

            No individual economic impact on Washington County is anticipated from the
            designation of this area as wilderness.

                                             299
IV.   Manageability:

      The National Forest Wilderness designation would appear to create no serious
      management challenges. The main challenge may be to determine how to best
      manage the area inasmuch as it is inside the national conservation area created by
      Congress. The General Plan would suggest that the Forest Ranger from this part
      of the Dixie National Forest be given a seat along with the current management
      group of the Red Cliffs Desert Reserve and that the area be managed
      cooperatively by the current organization presently in place with the addition of a
      forest service representative.




                                      300
                                     Cougar Canyon

I.   Area Description:

     The Cougar Canyon wilderness area is located in the northwest corner of the BLM
     managed land in Washington County, and adjacent to the Nevada State line. It was
     originally proposed as a companion area to the same quality of land on the Nevada side
     of the State line. The Nevada WSA was eliminated by Congress as a part of the Lincoln
     County, Nevada wilderness bill. The Utah portion was later designated by Congress as
     wilderness in March, 2009.

     Cougar Canyon is characterized by hot summers and relatively short, mild winters. Cold
     spells are of short duration. The wilderness area is at the headwaters of the Beaver Dam
     Wash and is adjacent to Clover Mountain, which extends east-west from Nevada into
     Utah. It is adjacent to the Dixie National Forest on the North, Nevada on the west, and
     BLM land on the south and east. The wilderness area contains steep mountainous
     canyons, long ridges, and rough drainage areas:

II   Wilderness Characteristics:

     A.     Size:

            The Cougar Canyon wilderness area contains 10,409 acres of public land
            managed by the Bureau of land Management. The area is approximately 4 miles
            wide by 5 miles long.

     B.     Naturalness:

            The wilderness area is basically natural. There are a few signs of man, including
            several miles of range fence, and a spring development. The area meets the
            wilderness criteria for naturalness.

     C.     Solitude:

            There are outstanding opportunities for solitude, particular in the canyon bottoms.
            The size and configuration of the wilderness area neither enhances nor detracts
            from the outstanding opportunities for solitude present in the recommended area.
            Congress specifically provided for continued use of the air space for low level
            training flights of military aircraft, which could conflict to some degree with the
            solitude of the area.



                                            301
D.     Primitive and Unconfined Recreation:

              The wilderness area would allow for the continued use of livestock grazing. The
              fence would be allowed to remain and the existing water development could also
              remain. There are the activities that would be available in this wilderness area
              include hiking, fishing, bird watching, picnicking, and photography.

       E.     Special Features:

              The wilderness area has several miles of perennial pools and streams that support
              fishing. This feature is unique to most BLM lands.

III.   Socio-Economics:

       Because the mineral potential of much of the western part of Washington County it has
       never been sufficiently explored, it is difficult to determine the possible value of minerals
       that could be developed in that part of the county in the future. Based upon current
       commercial development, there is little socio economic impact from this wilderness area,
       acting independently from all other areas, in the county. Some isolated private lands
       intrude into the northeast boundary of the area, adjacent to the forest boundary. No other
       private or state in-holdings exist.

IV.    Manageability:

       The Cougar Canyon wilderness area is manageable as wilderness. The area is rugged,
       relatively remote, and currently has only low to moderate recreational use. Vegetation is
       too sparse to provide woodland products, and mineral conflicts are unlikely. Livestock
       grazing in the area may continue, hunting may continue and wilderness designation will
       enhance wildlife habitat.




                                                302
                                         Deep Creek

I.    Area Description;

      The Deep Creek wilderness is located in northeastern Washington County. The area is
      adjacent to Zion National Park on the south, BLM and private on the west and north
      private land also on the north and on the east. The Deep Creek’s impressive canyon of
      Navajo Sandstone dominates much of the area, along with small portions of other deep
      drainage such as Kolob Creek. In places, the canyon rim rises 2,000 feet above the creek
      bottom. Portions of the canyon are included in the wilderness area. These regions
      consist of Pinion Pine, juniper, and mountain shrub woodlands, as well as Ponderosa
      Pine, fir, and aspen forests at the higher elevations.

II.   Wilderness Characteristics:

      A.     Size

             The wilderness area contains 3,284 acres of public land managed by the Bureau of
             Land Management. It is approximately 2 miles wide from east to west and 3
             miles long from north to south. The small size of this area, and the fact that access
             to the canyons is generally from non-BLM lands, primarily private lands and the
             National Park Service land, is a handicap to its proper management. There are
             however, other qualities that helped qualify Deep Creek as a wilderness area.

      B.     Naturalness:

             The area is in a natural condition, with little human imprint in the canyons below
             the rim.

      C.     Solitude:

             The deep Creek wilderness area provides opportunities for solitude due to the
             deep, rugged, and winding canyon terrain, the side drainage, vegetative screening,
             and isolation of the area. However, the small size of the wilderness area limits its
             composition to segments of several canyons, with the longest segment consisting
             of approximately 4 miles of Deep Creek Canyon. Outstanding solitude
             opportunities are dependent upon the longer lengths of the canyons and the
             canyon rims which involve other contiguous lands, particularly lands within Zion
             National Park.

      D.     Primitive and Unconfined Recreation:



                                              303
              The rugged and highly scenic qualities of the Deep Creek Wilderness area offer
              recreational opportunities along the canyon bottom for hiking, sightseeing,
              backpacking, photography, and fishing. When combined with adjacent public
              lands, recreational opportunities are considered to be outstanding.

       E.     Special Features:

              The scenic qualities of the Deep Creek area are quite spectacular. Because these
              tributary canyons lead directly into Zion National Park, they are not far upstream
              from their confluences with the Zion narrows. The Deep Creek and Deep Creek
              North wilderness areas contain some of the only designated segments of wild and
              scenic rivers currently designated in the State of Utah on BLM lands.

III.   Socio-Economics:

       Individually, Deep Creek holds no significant economic benefit to the County other than
       for recreation. There is no state or private in-holdings within the wilderness area. There
       is a motorized ATV trail bisecting Deep Creek and Deep Creek North. The trail is
       extremely steep and allows legal access between the private properties on the east and
       west sides.

IV.    Manageability:

       Overall, the area could be managed to preserve its wilderness character. Administration
       of the area may be difficult because of the limited areas of access across private land.
       Visitor use can be monitored and controlled through a cooperative effort by the BLM and
       the National Park Service. The BLM may acquire some private land access points to the
       west side of the wilderness area to precipitate access into the canyons.




                                               304
                                       Deep Creek North

I.     Area Description:

       Deep Creek North is separated from the Deep Creek wilderness area by an east-west
       motorized trail running between the two wilderness areas. The deep creek north area was
       not recommended by the BLM for wilderness consideration. Both areas were evaluated,
       but only the southern part was recommended.

       The Deep Creek North wilderness area contains 4,062 acres, which is actually larger than
       the Deep Creek wilderness area. The major difference between the two wilderness areas
       is found in the imprint of man. The east-west motorized trail and other adjacent
       roadways are more noticeable in Deep Creek North. There is a problem with State and
       private land being located within the boundary of the north wilderness area that will need
       to be resolved by the BLM, including possible land trades to benefit all affected entities.

       Access into Deep Creek North is more difficult because it is essentially surrounded by
       private land ownership which may or may not allow access into the canyons, which is
       where the naturalness, solitude, and unconfined recreation is mostly located.

       Beyond the above considerations, there is no reason to duplicate the Deep Creek
       evaluation for Deep Creek North. To a greater, or lesser, degree the comments relative to
       one of the wilderness areas applies to the other one. To get a feel for Deep Creek North,
       read the summary of conditions found in Deep Creek. They are both not unlike each
       other with Deep Creek North being to a lesser degree even though it contains more
       acreage. The qualities that set these areas apart as wilderness areas are found in the
       bottoms of the deep canyons, and not above the rims.

       Both areas all together account for a total of 7,346 acres of wilderness in Washington
       County.

II.    Wilderness Characteristics:

       Please see description from Deep Creek wilderness area.

III.   Socio-Economics.

       Individually, Deep Creek North holds no significant economic benefit to the county other
       than for recreation.



                                               305
IV.   Manageability

      The management of the Deep Creek North wilderness area should be no more difficult
      for the Bureau of Land Management at all of the other wilderness areas located in the
      northeast part of Washington County in the Kolob portion of Washington County.
      Signing, fencing, and monitoring issues increase with additional acres.




                                            306
                                          Doc’s Pass

I.     Area Description:

       Doc’s pass is located in the west part of Washington County, along the Nevada border. It
       is approximately 9 miles from north to south and 3 to 4 miles wide. It is bounded by the
       State of Nevada on west, the Beaver Dam Wash on the north and east, and BLM, private,
       and State land on the south.

       Doc’s Pass contains 17,294 acres, making it one of the larger wilderness areas in the
       county. Doc’s pass was not recommended by the Bureau of Land Management for
       wilderness designation at any time. Therefore the more detailed consideration of Doc’s
       pass has not been specifically completed. However, because of its relationship to the
       Cougar Canyon wilderness area, there are obviously significant similarities between the
       two areas. Both areas, according to Congress, are subject to low level training flights
       from military aircraft flying in the area. Both areas do provide areas for naturalness,
       solitude, along with primitive and unconfined recreation.

       Active mining claims remain on the west boundary of the area. Access to the claims will
       need to be maintained. There are many roadways traversing Doc’s pass from one end to
       the other which will need to be resolved by meetings between the BLM and Washington
       County. At least some of these roadways will need to be retained. In addition, there are
       state lands and private in-holdings within the wilderness boundary that will also need to
       be resolved by the County, BLM, and the other stakeholders involved. There have been
       range improvements within the wilderness area, and livestock permits are allowed to
       continue following wilderness designation. The Doc’s Pass wilderness area may have
       been designated by Congress for the purpose of placating the environmental community
       and adding acreage to the total land in the County, more than for actual wilderness value.
       However, the County, working closely with the BLM, will find ways to resolve the
       problems created by the wilderness designation, thereby making Doc’s Pass a valid
       wilderness addition to the County.

II.    Wilderness Characteristics:

       Please see the Cougar Canyon wilderness area for similar information.

III.   Socio- Economics:

       Please see the Cougar Canyon wilderness area for similar characteristics.

IV.    Manageability:


                                               307
The manageability of Doc’s Pass, coupled with the Cougar Canyon and the Slaughter
Creek Wilderness area, which are all close to one another, should make the three
wilderness areas along the west side of the county, more manageable because of their
proximity.




                                       308
                                        Goose Creek Canyon

I.    Area Description:

      The Goose Creek Canyon area is located in the northeast corner of Washington County.
      The area is adjacent to Zion National Park on the south and private land on the north,
      east, and west. This parcel is isolated from other BLM lands.

      The deep drainage of Goose Creek Canyon dominates the area. The canyon rims and
      vertical walls of the Carmel formation and Navajo sandstone tower 2,000 feet above the
      creek, exposing these various rock formations. The only access into the canyon is
      through Zion National Park. The sheer walls at the upper end of the canyon do not
      permit access. The upper rim may be viewed by way of a road paralleling the north side
      of the wilderness area.

II.   Wilderness Characteristics:

             Size:

             This wilderness area contains 98 acres of public land managed by the Bureau of
             Land Management. It is approximately 0.25 miles wide from east to west and
             0.50 miles long from north to south. By itself, the wilderness area does not
             qualify for wilderness designation based upon size. However, combined with the
             National Park, it can qualify as a wilderness area.

      B.     Naturalness:

             The canyon area is in a natural condition, with no significant imprint.

      C.     Solitude:

             The rugged, winding canyon of Goose Creek does provide opportunity for
             solitude, particularly when considering the area’s difficult accessibility and
             isolation. Its existing opportunities for solitude are tied to the adjacent wilderness
             area of Zion National Park.

      D.     Primitive and Unconfined Recreation.

             The rugged, scenic qualities of the area offer recreational opportunities for hiking,
             backpacking, technical rock climbing, and photography. It must be accessed
             through Zion National Park. Because of its location and accessibility, the number
             of annual visitors to the Goose Creek Canyon Wilderness is very low.


                                              309
       E.     Special Features:

              All of the wilderness area has significant scenic value. That segment of Goose
              Creek running through this parcel has been designated under the wild and scenic
              rivers act.

III.   Socio-Economics:

       No individual adverse economic impact on Washington County is anticipated from the
       designation of this area as wilderness. There are no state or private in-holdings, sub-
       surface rights in the wilderness area. The land is presently use for unconfined and
       primitive forms of outdoor recreation and wildlife habitat.

IV. Manageability:

       Goose Creek Canyon wilderness area could be effectively managed to preserve its
       wilderness character. Access is very difficult but visitor use could be monitored through
       Zion National Park. Because of its remote location and because of its qualification for
       wilderness in connection with similar wilderness land inside the national park, the Goose
       Creek Canyon has, except for size, the necessary qualifications for wilderness. It is not
       expected that the management and use of the area will change materially from its present
       condition because of its remote location and lack of accessibility.




                                              310
                                   LaVerkin Creek Canyon


I.     Area Description:

       The LaVerkin Creek Canyon wilderness area is located in the northeastern part of
       Washington County. The area is bordered on the south by Zion National Park; it is
       surrounded by private land on the other side. The area consists mainly of 1.5 miles of the
       LaVerkin Creek and a very small portion of the Bear Trap Canyon drainage. The canyon
       rims rise 700 to 900 feet above the creek.

II.    Wilderness Characteristics:

       A.     Size:
              The wilderness area contains 445 acres of public land managed by the Bureau of
              Land Management. It is approximately 1 mile wide from east to west, and 1.25
              miles long from north to south. The wilderness area is basically “L” shaped.

       B.     Naturalness:

              The area is in a natural condition, with no noticeable human imprints.

       C.     Solitude:

              In connection with the adjacent Zion National Park, the area has outstanding
              solitude opportunities throughout the entire area.

       D.     Primitive and Unconfined Recreation:

              Some recreational opportunities exist along the canyon bottoms such as hiking,
              back packing, horseback riding, and photography. Outstanding opportunities for
              unconfined recreation exist when combined with the wilderness area of Zion
              National Park.

       E.     Special Features:

              All of the area has excellent scenic values.

III.   Socio-Economics:

       There are no state or private in-holdings sub-surface rights in the wilderness area. No
       individual adverse economic impact on Washington County is anticipated from the
       designation of this area as wilderness.

                                               311
IV.   Manageability:

      The LaVerkin Creek wilderness area could be effectively managed to preserve its
      wilderness character. Access to the area is very difficult, but visitor use could be
      monitored through Zion National Park. Because of its remote location, and because of its
      qualifications for wilderness in connection with similar wilderness inside the National
      Park, the LaVerkin Creek wilderness has, except for a lack of size, the necessary
      qualifications for wilderness. It is not expected that the management and use of the area
      will change materially from its present condition.




                                             312
                                          Red Butte

I.    Area Description:

      The Red Butte Wilderness area is located in eastern Washington County, approximately
      fifteen miles north of the town of Virgin. The area is adjacent to Zion National Park on
      the north, State trust land on the south, and private lands on the east and west sides.

      The area predominantly consists of a large sandstone butte, set amidst a dense mountain
      scrub brush such as sage, serviceberry, Manzanita, pinion pine, ponderosa pine and
      juniper. Elevations of the site range from 5,500 feet to 7,400 feet, with the Red Butte
      wilderness rising some 1,800 feet above nearby Smith Mesa, and 1,200 feet above the
      lower Kolob Plateau.

II.   Wilderness Characteristics:

      A.     Size:

             The wilderness area contains 1,537 acres of public land managed by the Bureau of
             Land Management. It is approximately 1.25 miles long from north to south, and
             1.25 miles wide from east to west. By itself, the wilderness area does not quality
             for wilderness designation based upon size. However, combined with the
             National Park, it can qualify as a wilderness area

      B.     Naturalness:

             The area is in a generally condition with a few human imprints. The wilderness
             area has been primarily affected by the forces of nature. A few lightly used jeep
             trails exist along its eastern boundary. A developed spring and surface pipeline
             are located just inside its western boundary.

      C.     Solitude:

             The area does provide opportunities for solitude due to its difficult accessibility,
             isolation and dense vegetation. The main reason for its solitude stems from its
             isolation which is created by the large expanse of undeveloped land surrounding
             the red butte area. It is not protected from outside sounds by the land use bill
             enacted by Congress.

      D.     Primitive and Unconfined Recreation:

             The area offers recreational opportunities such as deer hunting, hiking,
             backpacking, nature study, geologic study, and technical rock climbing. Overall,

                                              313
              outstanding opportunities for primitive and unconfined recreation are found in the
              Red Butte Wilderness area.

       E.     Special Features:

              The most special feature of this area is that it is rated as outstanding for scenic
              quality.

III.   Socio-Economics:

       There are no state or private in-holdings, sub-surface rights, or rights-of-way in the Red
       Butte Wilderness area. The land is presently used for unconfined recreation. Very little
       economic change will be noticed by wilderness designation. Livestock grazing may
       continue, and there is little other opportunity for other economic development.

IV.    Manageability:

       Overall it appears that the wilderness area can be effectively managed to preserve its
       wilderness character. Access is difficult across private land, but could be monitored in
       connection with Zion National Park. It is not expected that management and use of this
       wilderness area will change materially from its present condition because of its remote
       location and lack of accessibility.




                                                314
                                        Red Mountain

I.    Area Description:

      The Red Mountain wilderness area is located on Bureau of Land Management lands in the
      south central part of Washington County, just north of the city of Ivins. It is
      approximately 8 or 9 miles northwest of St. George city. Red Mountain is a plateau of
      deep red Navajo Sandstone rising 1,400 feet above the city of Ivins and the Santa Clara
      bench, to elevations of 4,600 feet to 5,432 feet.

      The wilderness area borders Snow Canyon State Park on the east, nearly to the homes in
      the City of Ivins on the south, and Gunlock State Park on the west.

II.   Wilderness Characteristics:

      A.     Size:

             The Red Mountain wilderness area contains 18,729 acres of public land. It is
             approximately six miles from east to west and 7 miles from north to south.

      B.      Naturalness:

             All appears to be natural in character. In close proximity to the urban valley, Red
             Mountain is perceived as an island of naturalness. Imprints that existed at the time
             of the BLM inventory included about 5 miles of roadway, about .05 miles of fence
             remnants, and a livestock watering trough. Only about 5 surfaces are affected, but
             these imprints are substantially unnoticeable. No surface disturbing a activities
             other than fire suppression, restoration, and occasional ATV intrusions have
             occurred since the inventory.

      C.     Solitude:

             Not all of the area has been identified as having outstanding opportunity for
             solitude. Outside sights and sounds from the Santa Clara Bench are readily
             apparent from the rim of the plateau, and below to the city of Ivins. The
             opportunity for solitude lies with the top of the plateau, away from the rim.

      D.     Primitive and Unconfined Recreation:

             Outstanding opportunity for primitive recreation exists on the plateau at the top of
             the rim. Opportunities for hiking, backpacking, and horseback riding are rated as
             above average in the Red Mountain wilderness area. There is a lack of water
             which may limit the length of stay in the area.


                                              315
       E.     Special Features:

              The wilderness area is rated as outstanding for scenic quality. Much of this is
              related to the views from the rim of the mountain overlooking the Santa Clara
              Bench, Gunlock Reservoir, and Snow Canyon State Park.

III.   Socio-Economics:

       With all of the mining and mineral leases filed over the years in the wilderness area, this
       area could realistically see significant revenue loss to the county as a result of the
       wilderness designation by Congress. Actual development of mineral resources and
       mineral leases are, however, distinctly different. No significant development has taken
       place since the area was made into a wilderness study area. It is not likely now. There
       would appear to be at least one section of State land within the wilderness boundary that
       would need to be traded out of the area.

IV.    Manageability:

       The area can be managed by the BLM much as it has been for many years. The combined
       management of the Red Hills Desert Reserve and the new addition of the National
       Conservation area over the top of the wilderness area will require some management
       decisions in the future. The General Plan recommends coordinating with the public
       agencies with a proposed plan to continue the area much as it is now. The County and the
       public agencies will need to work together to develop the details of this management.




                                                316
                                        Slaughter Creek

I.     Area Description:

       The Slaughter Creek wilderness is located in the north-west part of Washington County,
       immediately adjacent to the Cougar Canyon wilderness area. It is approximately 3 miles
       from north to south and 2 miles wide from east to west. The Slaughter Creek wilderness
       area contains 3,901 acres, and was designated by Congress as a part of the Washington
       County wilderness bill.

       As a result of congressional designation, rather than having been identified as wilderness
       by prior study of the Bureau of Land Management, it does not have the same information
       available for use that it would have had if it had been identified for wilderness by the
       BLM. Slaughter Creek is also adjacent to Doc’s Pass, another wilderness area created by
       Congress without having gone through the FLPMA process.

       The characteristics of Slaughter Creek most naturally relate to the Cougar Canyon
       wilderness area. Therefore, by reviewing the information from Cougar Canyon, there will
       be many similarities between the two areas.

II.    Wilderness Characteristics:

       Please see the Cougar Canyon wilderness area for similar information.

III.   Socio-Economics:

       Some active mining claims remain on the south-east border of the wilderness area.
       Potential for further development and production is unknown. There is no other state or
       private in-holdings.

IV.    Manageability:

       The manageability of Slaughter Creek, coupled with Doc’s Pass and the Cougar Canyon
       wilderness area, which are all contiguous, except for roadways, should make the three
       wilderness areas along the west side of the county more manageable because of the benefit
       of proximity with one another. Combined, they create a wilderness area of 31,604 acres.




                                               317
                                     Taylor Creek Canyon

I.    Area Description:

      The Taylor Creek Canyon wilderness area is located in the northeast corner of Washington
      County. The area is adjacent to the Kolob Canyons of Zion National Park. It is bounded
      by National Park land on the east, private lands on the east and state lands on the north and
      south.

      The area is dominated by the rugged, barren slick rock terrain found at the head of a deep
      drainage, the middle fork of Taylor Creek. The vast majority of this canyon is within Zion
      National Park. The canyon rims and sheer walls of the Carmel formation and Navajo
      Sandstone rise 1,000 feet above the canyon floor. Elevations range from 6,800 feet to
      7,000 feet within the area. High cliffs prohibit access into the National Park.

II.   Wilderness Characteristics:

 A.   Size:

      The area contains 32 acres of public land managed by the Bureau of Land Management.
      It is approximately 0.25 miles wide from east to west and about the same from north to
      south.

 B.   Naturalness:

      The area is in a natural condition, with no human imprints.

 C.   Solitude:

      The area encompasses only an extremely small parcel of land at the head of Taylor Creek
      Canyon. Opportunities for solitude are very good throughout the entire canyon.

D.    Primitive and Unconfined Recreation:

      The rugged, scenic qualities of the canyon offer recreational opportunities along the
      canyon bottom for hiking, backpacking, and photography.

E.    Special Features:

      The scenic qualities of Taylor Creek Canyon are especially notable, particularly the depth
      and colorful walls of the canyon. The canyon provides habitat for raptors. That portion
      of the Taylor Creek headwaters that runs through the wilderness area has been designated
      by Congress under the wild and scenic rivers act.


                                               318
III.   Socio-Economics:

       By itself, there is no expected economic impact on Washington County from the
       designation of Taylor Creek Canyon as a wilderness area. There are no private lands
       within the Taylor Creek Wilderness area.

IV.    Manageability:

       The wilderness area can effectively be managed by the Bureau of Land Management.
       However, in this instance, there is no access to the wilderness area from Zion National
       Park. Access from private land is restricted. The area has received little use, and no major
       increase in on-site use is anticipated. The area is unsuitable for grazing and visitor use is
       limited. All of the small wilderness areas allocated in the Kolob area north and east of the
       National Park are two small by themselves to qualify as wilderness. They do have
       wilderness characteristics, in many cases greater than larger areas; it should make it easier
       for the BLM to manage the group than it would be if there was only an isolated wilderness
       designation in the area.




                                                319
                                    Ap p e n d i x I I

Omnibus Land Bill of 2009 “Subtitle O” – Washington
                  County, Utah (Congress passed April
2009)


11    Subtitle O—Washington County,
12    Utah
13     SEC. 1971. DEFINITIONS.
14    In this subtitle:
15            (1) BEAVER DAM WASH NATIONAL CONSERVA
16    TION AREA MAP.—The term ‘‘Beaver Dam Wash
17    National Conservation Area Map’’ means the map
18    entitled ‘‘Beaver Dam Wash National Conservation
19    Area’’ and dated December 18, 2008.
20            (2) CANAAN MOUNTAIN WILDERNESS MAP.—
21    The term ‘‘Canaan Mountain Wilderness Map’’
22    means the map entitled ‘‘Canaan Mountain Wilder
23    ness’’ and dated June 21, 2008.
24            (3) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
25    Washington County, Utah.

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1               (4) NORTHEASTERN WASHINGTON COUNTY
2      WILDERNESS MAP.—The term ‘‘Northeastern Wash
3     ington County Wilderness Map’’ means the map en
4     titled ‘‘Northeastern Washington County Wilder
5     ness’’ and dated November 12, 2008.
6              (5) NORTHWESTERN WASHINGTON COUNTY
7     WILDERNESS MAP.—The term ‘‘Northwestern Wash
8     ington County Wilderness Map’’ means the map en
9     titled ‘‘Northwestern Washington County Wilder
10    ness’’ and dated June 21, 2008.
11              (6) RED CLIFFS NATIONAL CONSERVATION
12    AREA MAP.—The term ‘‘Red Cliffs National Con
                                            320
13    servation Area Map’’ means the map entitled ‘‘Red
14    Cliffs National Conservation Area’’ and dated No
15    vember 12, 2008.
16            (7) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
17    means—
18    (A) with respect to land under the jurisdic
19    tion of the Secretary of Agriculture, the Sec
20    retary of Agriculture; and
21    (B) with respect to land under the jurisdic
22    tion of the Secretary of the Interior, the Sec
23    retary of the Interior.
24            (8) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the State
25    of

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1    (9) WASHINGTON COUNTY GROWTH AND CON
2    SERVATION ACT MAP.—The term ‘‘Washington
3    County Growth and Conservation Act Map’’ means
4    the map entitled ‘‘Washington County Growth and
5    Conservation Act Map’’ and dated November 13,
6    2008.
7 SEC. 1972. WILDERNESS AREAS.
8    (a) ADDITIONS TO NATIONAL WILDERNESS PRESER
9    VATION SYSTEM.—
10           (1) ADDITIONS.—Subject to valid existing
11    rights, the following land in the State is designated
12    as wilderness and as components of the National
13    Wilderness Preservation System:
14              (A) BEARTRAP CANYON.—Certain Federal
15           land managed by the Bureau of Land Manage
16           ment, comprising approximately 40 acres, as
17           generally depicted on the Northeastern Wash
18           ington County Wilderness Map, which shall be
19           known as the ‘‘Beartrap Canyon Wilderness’’.
20               (B) BLACKRIDGE.—Certain Federal land
21           managed by the Bureau of Land Management,
22           comprising approximately 13,015 acres, as gen
23           erally depicted on the Northeastern Washington
24           County Wilderness Map, which shall be known
25            as the ‘‘Blackridge Wilderness’’.

                                            218

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.
                                            321
1               (C) CANAAN MOUNTAIN.—Certain Federal
2            land in the County managed by the Bureau of
3            Land Management, comprising approximately
4            44,531 acres, as generally depicted on the
5            Canaan Mountain Wilderness Map, which shall
6            be known as the ‘‘Canaan Mountain Wilder-
7            ness’’.
8               (D) COTTONWOOD CANYON.—Certain Fed-
9            eral land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
10           agement, comprising approximately 11,712
11           acres, as generally depicted on the Red Cliffs
12           National Conservation Area Map, which shall
13           be known as the ‘‘Cottonwood Canyon Wilder
14           ness’’.
15              (E) COTTONWOOD FOREST.—Certain Fed
16           eral land managed by the Forest Service, com
17           prising approximately 2,643 acres, as generally
18           depicted on the Red Cliffs National Conserva
19           tion Area Map, which shall be known as the
20           ‘‘Cottonwood Forest Wilderness’’.
21              (F) COUGAR CANYON.—Certain Federal
22           land managed by the Bureau of Land Manage
23           ment, comprising approximately 10,409 acres,
24           as generally depicted on the Northwestern
25           Washington County Wilderness Map, which

                                            219

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1            shall be known as the ‘‘Cougar Canyon Wilder
2            ness’’.
3              (G) DEEP CREEK.—Certain Federal land
4            managed by the Bureau of Land Management,
5            comprising approximately 3,284 acres, as gen
6            erally depicted on the Northeastern Washington
7            County Wilderness Map, which shall be known
8            as the ‘‘Deep Creek Wilderness’’.
9              (H) DEEP CREEK NORTH.—Certain Fed
10           eral land managed by the Bureau of Land Man
11           agement, comprising approximately 4,262 acres,
12           as generally depicted on the Northeastern
13           Washington County Wilderness Map, which
14           shall be known as the ‘‘Deep Creek North Wil
                                            322
15           derness’’.
16             (I) DOC’S PASS.—Certain Federal land
17           managed by the Bureau of Land Management,
18           comprising approximately 17,294 acres, as gen
19           erally depicted on the Northwestern Wash
20           ington County Wilderness Map, which shall be
21           known as the ‘‘Doc’s Pass Wilderness’’.
22             (J) GOOSE CREEK.—Certain Federal land
23           managed by the Bureau of Land Management,
24           comprising approximately 98 acres, as generally
25           depicted on the Northeastern Washington



                                            220
O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1            County Wilderness Map, which shall be known
2            as the ‘‘Goose Creek Wilderness’’.
3              (K) LAVERKIN CREEK.—Certain Federal
4            land managed by the Bureau of Land Manage
5            ment, comprising approximately 445 acres, as
6            generally depicted on the Northeastern Wash
7            ington County Wilderness Map, which shall be
8            known as the ‘‘LaVerkin Creek Wilderness’’.
9              (L) RED BUTTE.—Certain Federal land
10           managed by the Bureau of Land Management,
11           comprising approximately 1,537 acres, as gen
12           erally depicted on the Northeastern Washington
13           County Wilderness Map, which shall be known
14           as the ‘‘Red Butte Wilderness’’.
15             (M) RED MOUNTAIN.—Certain Federal
16           land managed by the Bureau of Land Manage
17           ment, comprising approximately 18,729 acres,
18           as generally depicted on the Red Cliffs National
19           Conservation Area Map, which shall be known
20           as the ‘‘Red Mountain Wilderness’’.
21             (N) SLAUGHTER CREEK.—Certain Federal
22           land managed by the Bureau of Land Manage
23           ment, comprising approximately 3,901 acres, as
24           generally depicted on the Northwestern Wash

                                            221

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.
                                            323
1             ington County Wilderness Map, which shall be
2             known as the ‘‘Slaughter Creek Wilderness’’.
3               (O) TAYLOR CREEK.—Certain Federal
4             land managed by the Bureau of Land Manage
5             ment, comprising approximately 32 acres, as
6             generally depicted on the Northeastern Wash
7             ington County Wilderness Map, which shall be
8             known as the ‘‘Taylor Creek Wilderness’’.
9     (2) MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—
10            (A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
11    after the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec
12    retary shall submit to the Committee on Energy
13    and Natural Resources of the Senate and the
14    Committee on Natural Resources of the House
15    of Representatives a map and legal description
16    of each wilderness area designated by para
17    graph (1).
18            (B) FORCE AND EFFECT.—Each map and
19    legal description submitted under subparagraph
20    (A) shall have the same force and effect as if
21    included in this subtitle, except that the Sec
22    retary may correct any clerical or typographical
23    errors in the map or legal description.

                                            222

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1             (C) AVAILABILITY.—Each map and legal
2     description submitted under subparagraph (A)
3     shall be available in the appropriate offices of—
4                     (i) the Bureau of Land Management;
5              and
6                     (ii) the Forest Service.
7     (b) ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.—
8             (1) MANAGEMENT.—Subject to valid existing
9     rights, each area designated as wilderness by sub
10    section (a)(1) shall be administered by the Secretary
11    in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C.
12    1131 et seq.), except that—
13               (A) any reference in the Wilderness Act to
14            the effective date of that Act shall be consid
15            ered to be a reference to the date of enactment
16            of this Act; and
                                            324
17               (B) any reference in the Wilderness Act to
18            the Secretary of Agriculture shall be considered
19            to be a reference to the Secretary that has ju
20            risdiction over the land.
21            (2) LIVESTOCK.—The grazing of livestock in
22    each area designated as wilderness by subsection
23    (a)(1), where established before the date of enact
24    ment of this Act, shall be permitted to continue—

                                            223

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1                 (A) subject to such reasonable regulations,
2              policies, and practices that the Secretary con
3              siders necessary; and
4                 (B) in accordance with—
5                      (i) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness
6              Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
7                      (ii) the guidelines set forth in Appen
8              dix A of the report of the Committee on
9              Interior and Insular Affairs of the House
10             of Representatives accompanying H.R.
11             2570 of the 101st Congress (H.Rep. 101–
12             405) and H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress
13             (H. Rept. 96–617).
14             (3) WILDFIRE, INSECT, AND DISEASE MANAGE
15    MENT.—In accordance with section 4(d)(1) of the
16    Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)), the Sec
17    retary may take such measures in each area des
18    ignated as wilderness by subsection (a)(1) as the
19    Secretary determines to be necessary for the control
20    of fire, insects, and diseases (including, as the Sec
21    retary determines to be appropriate, the coordination
22    of those activities with a State or local agency).
23             (4) BUFFER ZONES.—
24                (A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
25             creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone

                                            224

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1            around any area designated as wilderness by
2            subsection (a)(1).
                                            325
3               (B) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE WILDERNESS.—
4            The fact that an activity or use on land outside
5            any area designated as wilderness by subsection
6            (a)(1) can be seen or heard within the wilder
7            ness shall not preclude the activity or use out
8            side the boundary of the wilderness.
9            (5) MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.—Nothing in this
10    section restricts or precludes—
11              (A) low-level overflights of military aircraft
12           over any area designated as wilderness by sub
13           section (a)(1), including military overflights
14           that can be seen or heard within any wilderness
15           area;
16              (B) flight testing and evaluation; or
17              (C) the designation or creation of new
18           units of special use airspace, or the establish
19           ment of military flight training routes over any
20           wilderness area.
21           (6) ACQUISITION AND INCORPORATION OF LAND
22    AND INTERESTS IN LAND.—
23              (A) ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—In accord
24           ance with applicable laws (including regula
25           tions), the Secretary may acquire any land or

                                            225

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1          interest in land within the boundaries of the
2          wilderness areas designated by subsection (a)(1)
3          by purchase from willing sellers, donation, or
4          exchange.
5             (B) INCORPORATION.—Any land or inter
6          est in land acquired by the Secretary under
7          subparagraph (A) shall be incorporated into,
8          and administered as a part of, the wilderness
9          area in which the land or interest in land is lo
10         cated.
11         (7) NATIVE AMERICAN CULTURAL AND RELI
12    GIOUS USES.—Nothing in this section diminishes—
13            (A) the rights of any Indian tribe; or
14            (B) any tribal rights regarding access to
15         Federal land for tribal activities, including spir
16         itual, cultural, and traditional food-gathering
17         activities.
                                            326
18           (8) CLIMATOLOGICAL DATA COLLECTION.—In
19    accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131
20    et seq.) and subject to such terms and conditions as
21    the Secretary may prescribe, the Secretary may au
22    thorize the installation and maintenance of hydro
23    logic, meteorologic, or climatological collection de
24    vices in the wilderness areas designated by sub
25    section (a)(1) if the Secretary determines that the

                                            226

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1     facilities and access to the facilities are essential to
2      flood warning, flood control, or water reservoir oper
3     ation activities.
4              (9) WATER RIGHTS.—
5                 (A) STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing
6              in this section—
7                       (i) shall constitute or be construed to
8              constitute either an express or implied res
9              ervation by the United States of any water
10             or water rights with respect to the land
11             designated as wilderness by subsection
12             (a)(1);
13                     (ii) shall affect any water rights in the
14             State existing on the date of enactment of
15             this Act, including any water rights held
16             by the United States;
17                     (iii) shall be construed as establishing
18             a precedent with regard to any future wil
19             derness designations;
20                     (iv) shall affect the interpretation of,
21             or any designation made pursuant to, any
22             other Act; or
23                     (v) shall be construed as limiting, al
24             tering, modifying, or amending any of the
25             interstate compacts or equitable apportion

                                            227

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1            ment decrees that apportion water among
2            and between the State and other States.
                                            327
3               (B) STATE WATER LAW.—The Secretary
4            shall follow the procedural and substantive re
5            quirements of the law of the State in order to
6            obtain and hold any water rights not in exist
7            ence on the date of enactment of this Act with
8            respect to the wilderness areas designated by
9            subsection (a)(1).
10           (10) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—
11              (A) JURISDICTION OF STATE.—Nothing in
12           this section affects the jurisdiction of the State
13           with respect to fish and wildlife on public land
14           located in the State.
15              (B) AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY.—In fur
16           therance of the purposes and principles of the
17           Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
18           Secretary may carry out management activities
19           to maintain or restore fish and wildlife popu
20           lations (including activities to maintain and re
21           store fish and wildlife habitats to support the
22           populations) in any wilderness area designated
23           by subsection (a)(1) if the activities are—
24                   (i) consistent with applicable wilder
25           ness management plans; and

                                            228

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1                     (ii) carried out in accordance with—
2            (I) the Wilderness Act (16
3            U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); and
4            (II) applicable guidelines and
5            policies, including applicable policies
6            described in Appendix B of House Re
7            port 101–405.
8            (11) WILDLIFE WATER DEVELOPMENT
9     PROJECTS.—Subject to paragraph (12), the Sec
10    retary may authorize structures and facilities, in
11    cluding existing structures and facilities, for wildlife
12    water development projects, including guzzlers, in
13    the wilderness areas designated by subsection (a)(1)
14    if—
15              (A) the structures and facilities will, as de
16           termined by the Secretary, enhance wilderness
17           values by promoting healthy, viable, and more
                                            328
18           naturally distributed wildlife populations; and
19             (B) the visual impacts of the structures
20           and facilities on the wilderness areas can rea
21           sonably be minimized.
22           (12) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT.—Not later
23    than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act,
24    the Secretary shall enter into a cooperative agree
25    ment with the State that specifies the terms and

                                            229

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1     conditions under which wildlife management active
2     ties in the wilderness areas designated by subsection
3     (a)(1) may be carried out.
4     (c) RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY AREAS.—
5     (1) FINDING.—Congress finds that, for the pur
6     poses of section 603 of the Federal Land Policy and
7     Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782), the
8     public land in the County administered by the Bu
9     reau of Land Management has been adequately
10    studied for wilderness designation.
11    (2) RELEASE.—Any public land described in
12    paragraph (1) that is not designated as wilderness
13    by subsection (a)(1)—
14               (A) is no longer subject to section 603(c)
15            of the Federal Land Policy and Management
16            Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
17               (B) shall be managed in accordance with
18            applicable law and the land management plans
19            adopted under section 202 of that Act (43
20            U.S.C. 1712).
21    (d) TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION
22    TO NATIONAL PARK SERVICE.—Administrative jurisdic
23    tion over the land identified as the Watchman Wilderness
24    on the Northeastern Washington County Wilderness Map
25    is hereby transferred to the National Park Service, to be

                                            230

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1     included in, and administered as part of Zion National
2     Park.
                                            329
3 SEC. 1973. ZION NATIONAL PARK WILDERNESS.
4   (a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
5          (1) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal land’’
6   means certain Federal land—
7             (A) that is—
8                  (i) located in the County and Iron
9          County, Utah; and
10                 (ii) managed by the National Park
11         Service;
12            (B) consisting of approximately 124,406
13         acres; and
14            (C) as generally depicted on the Zion Na
15         tional Park Wilderness Map and the area added
16         to the park under section 1972(d).
17         (2) WILDERNESS AREA.—The term ‘‘Wilderness
18  Area’’ means the Zion Wilderness designated by sub
19  section (b)(1).
20         (3) ZION NATIONAL PARK WILDERNESS MAP.—
21  The term ‘‘Zion National Park Wilderness Map’’
22  means the map entitled ‘‘Zion National Park Wilder
23  ness’’ and dated April 2008.
24  (b) ZION NATIONAL PARK WILDERNESS.—

                                            231

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1             (1) DESIGNATION.—Subject to valid existing
2     rights, the Federal land is designated as wilderness
3      and as a component of the National Wilderness
4      Preservation System, to be known as the ‘‘Zion Wil
5     derness’’.
6             (2) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND.—Any
7     land located in the Zion National Park that is ac
8     quired by the Secretary through a voluntary sale, ex
9     change, or donation may, on the recommendation of
10    the Secretary, become part of the Wilderness Area,
11    in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C.
12    1131 et seq.).
13            (3) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
14               (A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
15            after the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec
16            retary shall submit to the Committee on Energy
17            and Natural Resources of the Senate and the
18            Committee on Natural Resources of the House
                                            330
19           of Representatives a map and legal description
20           of the Wilderness Area.
21              (B) FORCE AND EFFECT.—The map and
22           legal description submitted under subparagraph
23           (A) shall have the same force and effect as if
24           included in this Act, except that the Secretary

                                            232

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1           may correct any clerical or typographical errors
2           in the map or legal description.
3              (C) AVAILABILITY.—The map and legal
4           description submitted under subparagraph (A)
5           shall be available in the appropriate offices of
6           the National Park Service.
7 SEC. 1974. RED CLIFFS NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA.
8   (a) PURPOSES.—The purposes of this section are—
9           (1) to conserve, protect, and enhance for the
10  benefit and enjoyment of present and future genera
11  tions the ecological, scenic, wildlife, recreational, cul
12  tural, historical, natural, educational, and scientific
13  resources of the National Conservation Area; and
14          (2) to protect each species that is—
15             (A) located in the National Conservation
16          Area; and
17             (B) listed as a threatened or endangered
18          species on the list of threatened species or the
19          list of endangered species published under sec
20          tion 4(c)(1) of the Endangered Species Act of
21          1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533(c)(1)).
22  (b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
23          (1) HABITAT CONSERVATION PLAN.—The term
24  ‘‘habitat conservation plan’’ means the conservation

                                            233

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1     plan entitled ‘‘Washington County Habitat Con
2     servation Plan’’ and dated February 23, 1996.
3            (2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The term ‘‘manage
4     ment plan’’ means the management plan for the Na
5     tional Conservation Area developed by the Secretary
                                            331
6     under subsection (d)(1).
7             (3) NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA.—The
8     term ‘‘National Conservation Area’’ means the Red
9     Cliffs National Conservation Area that—
10               (A) consists of approximately 44,725 acres
11            of public land in the County, as generally de
12            picted on the Red Cliffs National Conservation
13            Area Map; and
14               (B) is established by subsection (c).
15            (4) PUBLIC USE PLAN.—The term ‘‘public use
16    plan’’ means the use plan entitled ‘‘Red Cliffs
17    Desert Reserve Public Use Plan’’ and dated June
18    12, 2000, as amended.
19            (5) RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The term
20    ‘‘resource management plan’’ means the manage
21    ment plan entitled ‘‘St. George Field Office Re
22    source Management Plan’’ and dated March 15,
23    1999, as amended.

                                            234

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1     (c) ESTABLISHMENT.—Subject to valid existing
2     rights, there is established in the State the Red Cliffs Na
3     tional Conservation Area.
4     (d) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
5             (1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years after
6     the date of enactment of this Act and in accordance
7     with paragraph (2), the Secretary shall develop a
8     comprehensive plan for the long-term management
9     of the National Conservation Area.
10            (2) CONSULTATION.—In developing the man
11    agement plan required under paragraph (1), the
12    Secretary shall consult with—
13              (A) appropriate State, tribal, and local
14    governmental entities; and
15              (B) members of the public.
16            (3) INCORPORATION OF PLANS.—In developing
17    the management plan required under paragraph (1),
18    to the extent consistent with this section, the Sec
19    retary may incorporate any provision of—
20              (A) the habitat conservation plan;
21              (B) the resource management plan; and
22              (C) the public use plan.
                                            332
23    (e) MANAGEMENT.—
24          (1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall manage
25    the National Conservation Area—

                                            235

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1               (A) in a manner that conserves, protects,
2            and enhances the resources of the National
3            Conservation Area; and
4               (B) in accordance with—
5                    (i) the Federal Land Policy and Man
6            agement Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et
7            seq.);
8                    (ii) this section; and
9                    (iii) any other applicable law (include
10           ing regulations).
11           (2) USES.—The Secretary shall only allow uses
12    of the National Conservation Area that the Sec
13    retary determines would further a purpose described
14    in subsection (a).
15           (3) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—Except in cases in
16    which motorized vehicles are needed for administra
17    tive purposes, or to respond to an emergency, the
18    use of motorized vehicles in the National Conserva
19    tion Area shall be permitted only on roads des
20    ignated by the management plan for the use of mo
21    torized vehicles.
22           (4) GRAZING.—The grazing of livestock in the
23    National Conservation Area, where established be
24    fore the date of enactment of this Act, shall be per
25    mitted to continue—

                                            236

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1              (A) subject to—
2                   (i) such reasonable regulations, poli
3            cies, and practices as the Secretary con
4            siders necessary; and
5                   (ii) applicable law; and
6              (B) in a manner consistent with the pur
7            poses described in subsection (a).
                                            333
8            (5) WILDLAND FIRE OPERATIONS.—Nothing in
9     this section prohibits the Secretary, in cooperation
10    with other Federal, State, and local agencies, as ap
11    propriate, from conducting wildland fire operations
12    in the National Conservation Area, consistent with
13    the purposes of this section.
14    (f) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND INTER
15    ESTS.—Any land or interest in land that is located in the
16    National Conservation Area that is acquired by the United
17    States shall—
18           (1) become part of the National Conservation
19    Area; and
20           (2) be managed in accordance with—
21              (A) the Federal Land Policy and Manage
22           ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
23              (B) this section; and
24              (C) any other applicable law (including
25           regulations).

                                            237

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1     (g) WITHDRAWAL.—
2             (1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
3     rights, all Federal land located in the National Con
4     servation Area are withdrawn from—
5                (A) all forms of entry, appropriation, and
6             disposal under the public land laws;
7                (B) location, entry, and patenting under
8             the mining laws; and
9                (C) operation of the mineral leasing, min
10            eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
11            (2) ADDITIONAL LAND.—If the Secretary ac
12    quires additional land that is located in the National
13    Conservation Area after the date of enactment of
14    this Act, the land is withdrawn from operation of
15    the laws referred to in paragraph (1) on the date of
16    acquisition of the land.
17    (h) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section prohibits the
18    authorization of the development of utilities within the Na
19    tional Conservation Area if the development is carried out
20    in accordance with—
21            (1) each utility development protocol described
22    in the habitat conservation plan; and
                                            334
23              (2) any other applicable law (including regula
24    tions).

                                             238

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1 SEC. 1975. BEAVER DAM WASH NATIONAL CONSERVATION
2 AREA.
3   (a) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section is to con
4   serve, protect, and enhance for the benefit and enjoyment
5   of present and future generations the ecological, scenic,
6   wildlife, recreational, cultural, historical, natural, edu
7   cational, and scientific resources of the Beaver Dam Wash
8   National Conservation Area.
9   (b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
10          (1) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The term ‘‘manage
11  ment plan’’ means the management plan for the Na
12  tional Conservation Area developed by the Secretary
13  under subsection (d)(1).
14          (2) NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA.—The
15  term ‘‘National Conservation Area’’ means the Bea
16  ver Dam Wash National Conservation Area that—
17             (A) consists of approximately 68,083 acres
18  of public land in the County, as generally de
19  picted on the Beaver Dam Wash National Con
20  servation Area Map; and
21             (B) is established by subsection (c).
22  (c) ESTABLISHMENT.—Subject to valid existing
23  rights, there is established in the State the Beaver Dam
24  Wash National Conservation Area.
25  (d) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—

                                             239

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1            (1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years after
2     the date of enactment of this Act and in accordance
3     with paragraph (2), the Secretary shall develop a
4     comprehensive plan for the long-term management
5     of the National Conservation Area.
6            (2) CONSULTATION.—In developing the man
7     agement plan required under paragraph (1), the
8     Secretary shall consult with—
                                             335
9              (A) appropriate State, tribal, and local
10           governmental entities; and
11             (B) members of the public.
12           (3) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—In developing the
13    management plan required under paragraph (1), the
14    Secretary shall incorporate the restrictions on mo
15    torized vehicles described in subsection (e)(3).
16    (e) MANAGEMENT.—
17           (1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall manage
18    the National Conservation Area—
19             (A) in a manner that conserves, protects,
20           and enhances the resources of the National
21           Conservation Area; and
22             (B) in accordance with—
23                  (i) the Federal Land Policy and Man
24           agement Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et
25           seq.);

                                            240

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1                    (ii) this section; and
2                    (iii) any other applicable law (include
3            ing regulations).
4            (2) USES.—The Secretary shall only allow uses
5     of the National Conservation Area that the Sec
6     retary determines would further the purpose de
7     scribed in subsection (a).
8            (3) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—
9               (A) IN GENERAL.—Except in cases in
10           which motorized vehicles are needed for admin
11           istrative purposes, or to respond to an emer
12           gency, the use of motorized vehicles in the Na
13           tional Conservation Area shall be permitted
14           only on roads designated by the management
15           plan for the use of motorized vehicles.
16              (B) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENT RELATING
17           TO CERTAIN AREAS LOCATED IN THE NATIONAL
18           CONSERVATION AREA.—In addition to the re
19           quirement described in subparagraph (A), with
20           respect to the areas designated on the Beaver
21           Dam Wash National Conservation Area Map as
22           ‘‘Designated Road Areas’’, motorized vehicles
23           shall be permitted only on the roads identified
                                            336
24           on such map.

                                            241

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1            (4) GRAZING.—The grazing of livestock in the
2     National Conservation Area, where established be
3     fore the date of enactment of this Act, shall be per
4     mitted to continue—
5               (A) subject to—
6                    (i) such reasonable regulations, poli
7            cies, and practices as the Secretary con
8            siders necessary; and
9                    (ii) applicable law (including regula
10           tions); and
11              (B) in a manner consistent with the pur
12           pose described in subsection (a).
13           (5) WILDLAND FIRE OPERATIONS.—Nothing in
14    this section prohibits the Secretary, in cooperation
15    with other Federal, State, and local agencies, as ap
16    propriate, from conducting wildland fire operations
17    in the National Conservation Area, consistent with
18    the purposes of this section.
19    (f) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND INTER
20    ESTS.—Any land or interest in land that is located in the
21     National Conservation Area that is acquired by the United
22    States shall—
23           (1) become part of the National Conservation
24    Area; and
25           (2) be managed in accordance with—

                                            242

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1                (A) the Federal Land Policy and Manage
2             ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
3                (B) this section; and
4                (C) any other applicable law (including
5             regulations).
6     (g) WITHDRAWAL.—
7             (1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
8     rights, all Federal land located in the National Con
9     servation Area is withdrawn from—
                                            337
10               (A) all forms of entry, appropriation, and
11           disposal under the public land laws;
12               (B) location, entry, and patenting under
13           the mining laws; and
14               (C) operation of the mineral leasing, min
15           eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
16           (2) ADDITIONAL LAND.—If the Secretary ac
17    quires additional land that is located in the National
18    Conservation Area after the date of enactment of
19    this Act, the land is withdrawn from operation of
20    the laws referred to in paragraph (1) on the date of
21    acquisition of the land.
22   SEC. 1976. ZION NATIONAL PARK WILD AND SCENIC RIVER
23   DESIGNATION.
24    (a) DESIGNATION.—Section 3(a) of the Wild and
25    Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as amended by

                                            243

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1     section 1852) is amended by adding at the end the fol
2     lowing:
3     ‘‘(204) ZION NATIONAL PARK, UTAH.—The ap
4     proximately 165.5 miles of segments of the Virgin
5     River and tributaries of the Virgin River across Fed
6     eral land within and adjacent to Zion National Park,
7     as generally depicted on the map entitled ‘Wild and
8     Scenic River Segments Zion National Park and Bu
9     reau of Land Management’ and dated April 2008, to
10    be administered by the Secretary of the Interior in
11    the following classifications:
12               ‘‘(A) TAYLOR CREEK.—The 4.5–mile seg
13            ment from the junction of the north, middle,
14            and south forks of Taylor Creek, west to the
15            park boundary and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as
16            a scenic river.
17               ‘‘(B) NORTH FORK OF TAYLOR CREEK.—
18             The segment from the head of North Fork to
19            the junction with Taylor Creek and adjacent
20            land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
21               ‘‘(C) MIDDLE FORK OF TAYLOR CREEK.—
22            The segment from the head of Middle Fork on
23            Bureau of Land Management land to the junc
24            tion with Taylor Creek and adjacent land rim
                                            338
25           to-rim, as a wild river.

                                            244

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1               ‘‘(D) SOUTH FORK OF TAYLOR CREEK.—
2            The segment from the head of South Fork to
3            the junction with Taylor Creek and adjacent
4            land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
5               ‘‘(E) TIMBER CREEK AND TRIBUTARIES.—
6            The 3.1–mile segment from the head of Timber
7            Creek and tributaries of Timber Creek to the
8            junction with LaVerkin Creek and adjacent
9            land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
10              ‘‘(F) LAVERKIN CREEK.—The 16.1–mile
11           segment beginning in T. 38 S., R. 11 W., sec.
12           21, on Bureau of Land Management land,
13           southwest through Zion National Park, and
14           ending at the south end of T. 40 S., R. 12 W.,
15           sec. 7, and adjacent land 1⁄2–mile wide, as a
16           wild river.
17              ‘‘(G) WILLIS CREEK.—The 1.9–mile seg
18           ment beginning on Bureau of Land Manage
19           ment land in the SWSW sec. 27, T. 38 S., R.
20           11 W., to the junction with LaVerkin Creek in
21           Zion National Park and adjacent land rim-to
22           rim, as a wild river.
23              ‘‘(H) BEARTRAP CANYON.—The 2.3–mile
24           segment beginning on Bureau of Management
25           land in the SWNW sec. 3, T. 39 S., R. 11 W.,

                                            245

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1            to the junction with LaVerkin Creek and the
2            segment from the headwaters north of Long
3            Point to the junction with LaVerkin Creek and
4            adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
5               ‘‘(I) HOP VALLEY CREEK.—The 3.3–mile
6            segment beginning at the southern boundary of
7            T. 39 S., R. 11 W., sec. 20, to the junction
8            with LaVerkin Creek and adjacent land 1⁄2–mile
9            wide, as a wild river.
                                            339
10              ‘‘(J) CURRENT CREEK.—The 1.4–mile seg
11           ment from the head of Current Creek to the
12           junction with LaVerkin Creek and adjacent
13           land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
14              ‘‘(K) CANE CREEK.—The 0.6–mile seg
15           ment from the head of Smith Creek to the junc
16           tion with LaVerkin Creek and adjacent land
17           1⁄2–mile wide, as a wild river.
18              ‘‘(L) SMITH CREEK.—The 1.3–mile seg
19           ment from the head of Smith Creek to the junc
20           tion with LaVerkin Creek and adjacent land
21           1⁄2–mile wide, as a wild river.
22              ‘‘(M) NORTH CREEK LEFT AND RIGHT
23           FORKS.—The segment of the Left Fork from
24           the junction with Wildcat Canyon to the junc
25           tion with Right Fork, from the head of Right

                                            246

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1            Fork to the junction with Left Fork, and from
2            the junction of the Left and Right Forks south
3            west to Zion National Park boundary and adja
4            cent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
5               ‘‘(N) WILDCAT CANYON (BLUE CREEK).—
6            The segment of Blue Creek from the Zion Na
7            tional Park boundary to the junction with the
8            Right Fork of North Creek and adjacent land
9            rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
10              ‘‘(O) LITTLE CREEK.—The segment begin
11           ning at the head of Little Creek to the junction
12           with the Left Fork of North Creek and adja
13           cent land 1⁄2–mile wide, as a wild river.
14              ‘‘(P) RUSSELL GULCH.—The segment
15           from the head of Russell Gulch to the junction
16           with the Left Fork of North Creek and adja
17           cent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
18              ‘‘(Q) GRAPEVINE WASH.—The 2.6–mile
19           segment from the Lower Kolob Plateau to the
20           junction with the Left Fork of North Creek and
21           adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a scenic river.
22              ‘‘(R) PINE SPRING WASH.—The 4.6–mile
23           segment to the junction with the left fork of
24           North Creek and adjacent land 1⁄2–mile, as a
                                            340
25           scenic river.

                                            247

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1                ‘‘(S) WOLF SPRINGS WASH.—The 1.4–mile
2            segment from the head of Wolf Springs Wash
3            to the junction with Pine Spring Wash and ad
4            jacent land 1⁄2–mile wide, as a scenic river.
5               ‘‘(T) KOLOB CREEK.—The 5.9–mile seg
6            ment of Kolob Creek beginning in T. 39 S., R.
7            10 W., sec. 30, through Bureau of Land Man
8            agement land and Zion National Park land to
9            the junction with the North Fork of the Virgin
10           River and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild
11           river.
12              ‘‘(U) OAK CREEK.—The 1–mile stretch of
13           Oak Creek beginning in T. 39 S., R. 10 W.,
14           sec. 19, to the junction with Kolob Creek and
15           adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
16              ‘‘(V) GOOSE CREEK.—The 4.6–mile seg
17           ment of Goose Creek from the head of Goose
18           Creek to the junction with the North Fork of
19           the Virgin River and adjacent land rim-to-rim,
20           as a wild river.
21             ‘‘(W) DEEP CREEK.—The 5.3–mile seg
22           ment of Deep Creek beginning on Bureau of
23           Land Management land at the northern bound
24           ary of T. 39 S., R. 10 W., sec. 23, south to the

                                            248

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1            junction of the North Fork of the Virgin River
2            and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
3               ‘‘(X) NORTH FORK OF THE VIRGIN
4            RIVER.—The 10.8–mile segment of the North
5            Fork of the Virgin River beginning on Bureau
6            of Land Management land at the eastern bor
7            der of T. 39 S., R. 10 W., sec. 35, to Temple
8            of Sinawava and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a
9            wild river.
10              ‘‘(Y) NORTH FORK OF THE VIRGIN
                                            341
11           RIVER.—The 8–mile segment of the North Fork
12           of the Virgin River from Temple of Sinawava
13           south to the Zion National Park boundary and
14           adjacent land 1⁄2–mile wide, as a recreational
15           river.
16              ‘‘(Z) IMLAY CANYON.—The segment from
17           the head of Imlay Creek to the junction with
18           the North Fork of the Virgin River and adja
19           cent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
20              ‘‘(AA) ORDERVILLE CANYON.—The seg
21           ment from the eastern boundary of Zion Na
22           tional Park to the junction with the North Fork
23           of the Virgin River and adjacent land rim-to
24           rim, as a wild river.
                                            249

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1               ‘‘(BB) MYSTERY CANYON.—The segment
2            from the head of Mystery Canyon to the junc
3            tion with the North Fork of the Virgin River
4            and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
5               ‘‘(CC) ECHO CANYON.—The segment from
6            the eastern boundary of Zion National Park to
7            the junction with the North Fork of the Virgin
8            River and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild
9            river.
10               ‘‘(DD) BEHUNIN CANYON.—The segment
11           from the head of Behunin Canyon to the junc
12           tion with the North Fork of the Virgin River
13           And adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
14              ‘‘(EE) HEAPS CANYON.—The segment
15           from the head of Heaps Canyon to the junction
16           with the North Fork of the Virgin River and
17           adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
18              ‘‘(FF) BIRCH CREEK.—The segment from
19           the head of Birch Creek to the junction with
20           the North Fork of the Virgin River and adja
21           cent land 1⁄2-mile wide, as a wild river.
22              ‘‘(GG) OAK CREEK.—The segment of Oak
23           Creek from the head of Oak Creek to where the
24           forks join and adjacent land 1⁄2-mile wide, as a
25           wild river.

                                            250
                                            342
O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1               ‘‘(HH) OAK CREEK.—The 1–mile segment
2            of Oak Creek from the point at which the 2
3            forks of Oak Creek join to the junction with the
4            North Fork of the Virgin River and adjacent
5            land 1⁄2–mile wide, as a recreational river.
6               ‘‘(II) CLEAR CREEK.—The 6.4–mile seg
7            ment of Clear Creek from the eastern boundary
8            of Zion National Park to the junction with Pine
9            Creek and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a rec
10           reational river.
11              ‘‘(JJ) PINE CREEK .—The 2–mile segment
12           of Pine Creek from the head of Pine Creek to
13           the junction with Clear Creek and adjacent land
14           rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
15              ‘‘(KK) PINE CREEK.—The 3–mile segment
16           of Pine Creek from the junction with Clear
17           Creek to the junction with the North Fork of
18           the Virgin River and adjacent land rim-to-rim,
19           as a recreational river.
20              ‘‘(LL) EAST FORK OF THE VIRGIN
21           RIVER.—The 8–mile segment of the East Fork
22           of the Virgin River from the eastern boundary
23           of Zion National Park through Parunuweap
24           Canyon to the western boundary of Zion Na

                                            251

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1            tional Park and adjacent land 1⁄2–mile wide, as
2            a wild river.
3               ‘‘(MM) SHUNES CREEK.—The 3–mile seg
4            ment of Shunes Creek from the dry waterfall on
5            land administered by the Bureau of Land Man
6            agement through Zion National Park to the
7            western boundary of Zion National Park and
8            adjacent land 1⁄2–mile wide as a wild river.’’.
9     (b) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED NON-FEDERAL
10    LAND.—If the United States acquires any non-Federal
11    land within or adjacent to Zion National Park that in
12    cludes a river segment that is contiguous to a river seg
13    ment of the Virgin River designated as a wild, scenic, or
                                            343
14    recreational river by paragraph (204) of section 3(a) of
15    the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
16    added by subsection (a)), the acquired river segment shall
17    be incorporated in, and be administered as part of, the
18    applicable wild, scenic, or recreational river.
19    (c) SAVINGS CLAUSE.—The amendment made by
20    subsection (a) does not affect the agreement among the
21    United States, the State, the Washington County Water
22    Conservancy District, and the Kane County Water Con
23    servancy District entitled ‘‘Zion National Park Water
24    Rights Settlement Agreement’’ and dated December 4,
25    1996.


                                            252

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1 SEC. 1977. WASHINGTON COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE TRAV
2 EL AND TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT
3 PLAN.
4    (a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
5            (1) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means
6    the Secretary of the Interior.
7            (2) SECRETARY CONCERNED.—The term ‘‘Sec
8    retary concerned’’ means—
9              (A) with respect to land managed by the
10           Bureau of Land Management, the Secretary;
11           and
12             (B) with respect to land managed by the
13           Forest Service, the Secretary of Agriculture.
14           (3) TRAIL.—The term ‘‘trail’’ means the High
15   Desert Off-Highway Vehicle Trail designated under
16   subsection (c)(1)(A).
17           (4) TRAVEL MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The term
18   ‘‘travel management plan’’ means the comprehensive
19   travel and transportation management plan devel
20   oped under subsection (b)(1).
21   (b) COMPREHENSIVE TRAVEL AND TRANSPORTATION
22   MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
23           (1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years after
24   the date of enactment of this Act, in accordance
25   with the Federal Land Policy and Management Act
26   of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and other applica


                                            344
                                            253

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1     ble laws (including regulations), the Secretary, in
2     consultation with appropriate Federal agencies and
3     State, tribal, and local governmental entities, and
4     after an opportunity for public comment, shall de
5     velop a comprehensive travel management plan for
6     the land managed by the Bureau of Land Manage
7     ment in the County—
8               (A) to provide to the public a clearly
9            marked network of roads and trails with signs
10           and maps to promote—
11                    (i) public safety and awareness; and
12                    (ii) enhanced recreation and general
13           access opportunities;
14              (B) to help reduce in the County growing
15           conflicts arising from interactions between—
16                    (i) motorized recreation; and
17                    (ii) the important resource values of
18           public land;
19              (C) to promote citizen-based opportunities
20           for—
21                    (i) the monitoring and stewardship of
22           the trail; and
23                    (ii) trail system management; and
24              (D) to support law enforcement officials in
25           promoting—

                                            254

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1                    (i) compliance with off-highway vehi
2            cle laws (including regulations); and
3                    (ii) effective deterrents of abuses of
4            public land.
5            (2) SCOPE; CONTENTS.—In developing the trav
6     el management plan, the Secretary shall—
7               (A) in consultation with appropriate Fed
8     eral agencies, State, tribal, and local govern
9     mental entities (including the County and St.
10    George City, Utah), and the public, identify 1
11    or more alternatives for a northern transport
                                            345
12    tation route in the County;
13               (B) ensure that the travel management
14            plan contains a map that depicts the trail; and
15               (C) designate a system of areas, roads, and
16            trails for mechanical and motorized use.
17    (c) DESIGNATION OF TRAIL.—
18            (1) DESIGNATION.—
19               (A) IN GENERAL.—As a component of the
20            travel management plan, and in accordance
21            with subparagraph (B), the Secretary, in co
22            ordination with the Secretary of Agriculture,
23            and after an opportunity for public comment,
24            shall designate a trail (which may include a sys
25            tem of trails)—
                                            255

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1                   (i) for use by off-highway vehicles;
2            and
3                     (ii) to be known as the ‘‘High Desert
4            Off-Highway Vehicle Trail’’.
5               (B) REQUIREMENTS.—In designating the
6            trail, the Secretary shall only include trails that
7            are—
8                     (i) as of the date of enactment of this
9            Act, authorized for use by off-highway ve
10           hicles; and
11                    (ii) located on land that is managed
12           by the Bureau of Land Management in the
13           County.
14              (C) NATIONAL FOREST LAND.—The Sec
15           retary of Agriculture, in coordination with the
16           Secretary and in accordance with applicable
17           law, may designate a portion of the trail on Na
18           tional Forest System land within the County.
19              (D) MAP.—A map that depicts the trail
20           shall be on file and available for public inspect
21           tion in the appropriate offices of—
22                    (i) the Bureau of Land Management;
23           and
24                    (ii) the Forest Service.
25           (2) MANAGEMENT.—

                                            256
                                             346
O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1               (A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary con
2            cerned shall manage the trail—
3                    (i) in accordance with applicable laws
4            (including regulations);
5                    (ii) to ensure the safety of citizens
6            who use the trail; and
7                    (iii) in a manner by which to minimize
8            any damage to sensitive habitat or cultural
9            resources.
10              (B) MONITORING; EVALUATION.—To mini
11           mize the impacts of the use of the trail on envi
12           ronmental and cultural resources, the Secretary
13           concerned shall—
14                   (i) annually assess the effects of the
15           use of off-highway vehicles on—
16                             (I) the trail; and
17                             (II) land located in proximity to
18                   the trail; and
19                   (ii) in consultation with the Utah De
20           partment of Natural Resources, annually
21           assess the effects of the use of the trail on
22           wildlife and wildlife habitat.
23              (C) CLOSURE.—The Secretary concerned,
24           in consultation with the State and the County,
25           and subject to subparagraph (D), may tempo

                                            257

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1            rarily close or permanently reroute a portion of
2            the trail if the Secretary concerned determines
3            that—
4                    (i) the trail is having an adverse im
5            pact on—
6                             (I) wildlife habitats;
7                             (II) natural resources;
8                             (III) cultural resources; or
9                             (IV) traditional uses;
10                   (ii) the trail threatens public safety;
11           or
12                   (iii) closure of the trail is necessary—
                                            347
13                         (I) to repair damage to the trail;
14                  or
15                            (II) to repair resource damage.
16             (D) REROUTING.—Any portion of the trail
17           that is temporarily closed by the Secretary con
18           cerned under subparagraph (C) may be perma
19           nently rerouted along any road or trail—
20                   (i) that is—
21                            (I) in existence as of the date of
22                   the closure of the portion of the trail;
23                            (II) located on public land; and
24                            (III) open to motorized use; and


                                            258

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1                    (ii) if the Secretary concerned deter
2            mines that rerouting the portion of the
3            trail would not significantly increase or de
4            crease the length of the trail.
5               (E) NOTICE OF AVAILABLE ROUTES.—The
6            Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of
7            Agriculture, shall ensure that visitors to the
8            trail have access to adequate notice relating to
9            the availability of trail routes through—
10                   (i) the placement of appropriate sign
11           age along the trail; and
12                   (ii) the distribution of maps, safety
13           education materials, and other information
14           that the Secretary concerned determines to
15           be appropriate.
16           (3) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section affects
17    the ownership, management, or other rights relating
18    to any non-Federal land (including any interest in
19    any non-Federal land).
20   SEC. 1978. LAND DISPOSAL AND ACQUISITION.
21    (a) IN GENERAL.—Consistent with applicable law,
22    the Secretary of the Interior may sell public land located
23    within Washington County, Utah, that, as of July 25,
24    2000, has been identified for disposal in appropriate re
25    source management plans.

                                            259
                                            348
O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1     (b) USE OF PROCEEDS.—
2             (1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other
3     provision of law (other than a law that specifically
4     provides for a portion of the proceeds of a land sale
5     to be distributed to any trust fund of the State),
6     proceeds from the sale of public land under sub
7     section (a) shall be deposited in a separate account
8     in the Treasury to be known as the ‘‘Washington
9     County, Utah Land Acquisition Account’’.
10            (2) AVAILABILITY.—
11              (A) IN GENERAL.—Amounts in the ac
12            count shall be available to the Secretary, with
13            out further appropriation, to purchase from
14            willing sellers lands or interests in land within
15            the wilderness areas and National Conservation
16            Areas established by this subtitle.
17              (B) APPLICABILITY.—Any purchase of
18            land or interest in land under subparagraph (A)
19            shall be in accordance with applicable law.
20   SEC. 1979. MANAGEMENT OF PRIORITY BIOLOGICAL AREAS.
21    (a) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with applicable
22    Federal laws (including regulations), the Secretary of the
23    Interior shall—
24            (1) identify areas located in the County where
25    biological conservation is a priority; and

                                            260

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1             (2) undertake activities to conserve and restore
2     plant and animal species and natural communities
3     within such areas.
4     (b) GRANTS; COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—In car
5     rying out subsection (a), the Secretary of the Interior may
6     make grants to, or enter into cooperative agreements with,
7     State, tribal, and local governmental entities and private
8     entities to conduct research, develop scientific analyses,
9     and carry out any other initiative relating to the restora
10    tion or conservation of the areas.
11   SEC. 1980. PUBLIC PURPOSE CONVEYANCES.
12    (a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the land use
                                            349
13    planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Fed
14    eral Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C.
15    1712, 1713), upon the request of the appropriate local
16    governmental entity, as described below, the Secretary
17    shall convey the following parcels of public land without
18    consideration, subject to the provisions of this section:
19           (1) TEMPLE QUARRY.—The approximately 122-
20    acre parcel known as ‘‘Temple Quarry’’ as generally
21    depicted on the Washington County Growth and
22    Conservation Act Map as ‘‘Parcel B’’, to the City of
23    St. George, Utah, for open space and public recre
24    ation purposes.


                                            261

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1             (2) HURRICANE CITY SPORTS PARK.—The ap
2     proximately 41-acre parcel as generally depicted on
3     the Washington County Growth and Conservation
4     Act Map as ‘‘Parcel C’’, to the City of Hurricane,
5     Utah, for public recreation purposes and public ad
6     ministrative offices.
7             (3) WASHINGTON COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT.—
8     The approximately 70-acre parcel as generally de
9     picted on the Washington County Growth and Con
10    servation Act Map as ‘‘Parcel D’’, to the Wash
11    ington County Public School District for use for
12    public school and related educational and adminis
13    trative purposes.
14            (4) WASHINGTON COUNTY JAIL.—The approxi
15    mately 80-acre parcel as generally depicted on the
16    Washington County Growth and Conservation Act
17    Map as ‘‘Parcel E’’, to Washington County, Utah,
18    for expansion of the Purgatory Correctional Facility.
19            (5) HURRICANE EQUESTRIAN PARK.—The ap
20    proximately 40-acre parcel as generally depicted on
21    the Washington County Growth and Conservation
22    Act Map as ‘‘Parcel F’’, to the City of Hurricane,
23    Utah, for use as a public equestrian park.
24    (b) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—As soon as
25    practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, the

                                            262
                                            350
O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1     Secretary shall finalize legal descriptions of the parcels to
2     be conveyed under this section. The Secretary may correct
3     any minor errors in the map referenced in subsection (a)
4     or in the applicable legal descriptions. The map and legal
5     descriptions shall be on file and available for public inspect
6     tion in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land Man
7     agement.
8     (c) REVERSION.—
9             (1) IN GENERAL.—If any parcel conveyed under
10    this section ceases to be used for the public purpose
11    for which the parcel was conveyed, as described in
12    subsection (a), the land shall, at the discretion of the
13    Secretary based on his determination of the best in
14    terests of the United States, revert to the United
15    States.
16            (2) RESPONSIBILITY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL
17    ENTITY.—If the Secretary determines pursuant to
18    paragraph (1) that the land should revert to the
19    United States, and if the Secretary determines that
20    the land is contaminated with hazardous waste, the
21    local governmental entity to which the land was con
22    veyed shall be responsible for remediation of the con
23    tamination.

                                            263

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1 SEC. 1981. CONVEYANCE OF DIXIE NATIONAL FOREST
2 LAND.
3   (a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
4            (1) COVERED FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘cov
5   ered Federal land’’ means the approximately 66.07
6   acres of land in the Dixie National Forest in the
7   State, as depicted on the map.
8            (2) LANDOWNER.—The term ‘‘landowner’’
9   means Kirk R. Harrison, who owns land in Pinto
10  Valley, Utah.
11           (3) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map en
12  titled ‘‘Conveyance of Dixie National Forest Land’’
13  nd dated December 18, 2008.
14           (4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means
                                            351
15    the Secretary of Agriculture.
16    (b) CONVEYANCE.—
17            (1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may convey
18    to the landowner all right, title, and interest of the
19    United States in and to any of the covered Federal
20    land (including any improvements or appurtenances
21    to the covered Federal land) by sale or exchange.
22            (2) LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—The exact acreage
23    and legal description of the covered Federal land to
24    be conveyed under paragraph (1) shall be deter
25    mined by surveys satisfactory to the Secretary.
26            (3) CONSIDERATION.—


                                            264

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1               (A) IN GENERAL.—As consideration for
2            any conveyance by sale under paragraph (1),
3            the landowner shall pay to the Secretary an
4            amount equal to the fair market value of any
5            Federal land conveyed, as determined under
6            subparagraph (B).
7               (B) APPRAISAL.—The fair market value of
8            any Federal land that is conveyed under para
9            graph (1) shall be determined by an appraisal
10           acceptable to the Secretary that is performed in
11           accordance with—
12                   (i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards
13           for Federal Land Acquisitions;
14                   (ii) the Uniform Standards of Profes
15           sional Appraisal Practice; and
16                   (iii) any other applicable law (include
17           ing regulations).
18           (4) DISPOSITION AND USE OF PROCEEDS.—
19              (A) DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.—The
20           Secretary shall deposit the proceeds of any sale
21           of land under paragraph (1) in the fund estab
22           lished under Public Law 90–171 (commonly
23           known as the ‘‘Sisk Act’’) (16 U.S.C. 484a).
24              (B) USE OF PROCEEDS.—Amounts depos
25           ited under subparagraph (A) shall be available

                                            265
                                            352
O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1            to the Secretary, without further appropriation
2            and until expended, for the acquisition of real
3            property or interests in real property for inclu
4            sion in the Dixie National Forest in the State.
5            (5) ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—
6     The Secretary may require any additional terms and
7     conditions for any conveyance under paragraph (1)
8     that the Secretary determines to be appropriate to
9     protect the interests of the United States.
10   SEC. 1982. TRANSFER OF LAND INTO TRUST FOR SHIVWITS
11   BAND OF PAIUTE INDIANS.
12    (a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
13           (1) PARCEL A.—The term ‘‘Parcel A’’ means
14    the parcel that consists of approximately 640 acres
15    of land that is—
16              (A) managed by the Bureau of Land Man
17           agement;
18              (B) located in Washington County, Utah;
19           and
20              (C) depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Wash
21           ington County Growth and Conservation Act
22           Map’’.
23           (2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means
24    the Secretary of the Interior.

                                            266

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1           (3) TRIBE.—The term ‘‘Tribe’’ means the
2    Shivwits Band of Paiute Indians of the State of
3    Utah.
4 (b) PARCEL TO BE HELD IN TRUST.—
5           (1) IN GENERAL.—At the request of the Tribe,
6    the Secretary shall take into trust for the benefit of
7    the Tribe all right, title, and interest of the United
8    States in and to Parcel A.
9           (2) SURVEY; LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
10             (A) SURVEY.—Not later than 180 days
11          after the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec
12          retary, acting through the Director of the Bu
13          reau of Land Management, shall complete a
                                            353
14           survey of Parcel A to establish the boundary of
15           Parcel A.
16              (B) LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF PARCEL A.—
17                   (i) IN GENERAL.—Upon the comple
18           tion of the survey under subparagraph (A),
19           the Secretary shall publish in the Federal
20           Register a legal description of—
21                           (I) the boundary line of Parcel A;
22                   and
23                           (II) Parcel A.
24                   (ii) TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.—Be
25           fore the date of publication of the legal de


                                                  267

O:\FLO\FLO09081.xml [file 2 of 16] S.L.C.

1         scriptions under clause (i), the Secretary
2          may make minor corrections to correct
3         technical and clerical errors in the legal de
4         scriptions.
5                  (iii) EFFECT.—Effective beginning on
6         the date of publication of the legal descrip
7         tions under clause (i), the legal descrip
8         tions shall be considered to be the official
9         legal descriptions of Parcel A.
10        (3) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section—
11            (A) affects any valid right in existence on
12        the date of enactment of this Act;
13            (B) enlarges, impairs, or otherwise affects
14        any right or claim of the Tribe to any land or
15        interest in land other than to Parcel A that
16        is—
17                 (i) based on an aboriginal or Indian
18        title; and
19                 (ii) in existence as of the date of en
20        actment of this Act; or
21            (C) constitutes an express or implied res
22        ervation of water or a water right with respect
23        to Parcel A.
24        (4) LAND TO BE MADE A PART OF THE RES
25    ERVATION.—Land taken into trust pursuant to this

                                            268
                                            354
O:\FLO\FLO09082.xml [file 3 of 16] S.L.C.

1     section shall be considered to be part of the reserve
2     tion of the Tribe.




                                            355
                                         Ap p e n d i x I I I

The Washington County Resource Management Plan -
(adopted August 2009)

                      WASHINGTON COUNTY, UTAH
                     RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PLAN
                                2009

                                        Section 1
                             Introduction and Background:
        This Resource Management Plan has been created as a supplement to, and a part of, the
Washington County General Plan, and is intended to specifically address the challenges which
exist, and continually arise, as a result of the large areas of state and federal lands which lie
within the county boundaries. With a large portion of the county managed by the federal or state
government, the interface which exists between the public lands and the private, commercial, and
municipal lands is a constant, overlying influence in county planning decisions and county
economic activity.

        The Resource Management Plans (RMP’s) developed by the Bureau of Land
Management (BLM), and the United States Forest Service (USFS), Land And Resource
Management Plans (LRMP’s), are the basis for nearly all natural resource management policy
and decision making activities that affect federal lands. Because the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act (FLPMA), mandates that all these RMP’s are to be consistent with state and
local plans “to the maximum extent...consistent with federal law...” it is essential that counties
develop their own resource management plans to reflect local perspectives and positions
regarding these interests.

        In 2004, the State of Utah Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget (GOPB), under the
direction of the State Planning coordinator, developed a “toolkit” to assist county governments in
preparing public land and natural resource management plans. The purpose of the Toolkit and
the resulting county tools necessary to work more effectively with land and natural resource
agencies, and ensure that the interests of local governments are adequately considered and
addressed in agency planning and decision-making process.

       The CRMP toolkit recommends that county resource management plans be developed
and organized in a manner similar to the planning approach and document format used by federal
                                               356
agencies in their planning processes. This approach should increase the usefulness and impact
of county plans in federal planning and decision-making processes. By using a similar format, it
will be easier to compare county resource management plans to agency-prepared documents.
This approach should increase the usefulness and impact of county plans in federal planning and
decision-making processes. In general, this structure centers around two important planning
elements:

              A.      Descriptions of the Desired Future Condition; and,

              B.      Methods for ongoing Monitoring to assess progress in moving from the
              existing condition to the desired condition

        As a result of these guidelines, Washington County is engaged in the update of the
Washington County General Plan in an effort to better address the many complicated issues
which arise from the interrelationship between the public and the private lands. To address this
need, the county began by creating a collaborative working group of citizens and stakeholders,
including public land managers, to consider many issues affecting the public land in the county.
This study group was a diverse group of stake holders including representatives from the
following groups: (see table 1) their goal was to develop recommendations that could be used by
the county in developing the County Land Use Plan that was approved by the County
Commission and submitted to Congress for their approval.

                                            Table 1
                                   Group Representation In
                                   County Planning Effort
                                        on BLM lands
                      Three Washington County Commissioners
                      County Planning Director
                      County Public Works Director
                      District Ranger, Dixie National Forrest
                      Farm Bureau - Cattlemen’s Association
                      Mining and Mineral Development
                      Economic Development Council
                      Division of Wildlife Resources
                      Virgin River Land Trust
                      Off-road All Terrain Vehicle Association
                      Dixie Wildlife Federation
                      Washington County Water Conservation District
                      Southern Utah Home Builders Association
                      Washington County Mayor’s Association
                      Utah State House of Representatives
                      Outdoor Recreation Industry
                      Southern Utah Wilderness Association
                      The Wilderness Society
                      Sierra Club

                                              357
                       Lieutenant Governor
                       State and Institutional Trust Lands
                       Shivwits Band
                       Blue Ribbon Coalition
                       Representative Matheson’s Office
                       Senator Bennett’s Office
                       Bureau of Land Management - St. George Resource Area Manager
                       (Technical support)
                       Zion National Park (Technical support)



This outstanding group of interested resource individuals, agreed to meet on a regular basis to
examine all of the public land in the County, particularly BLM and USFS land, on an area by
area basis both in meetings at the county building to review maps showing topography, and land
relationships, and through day-long field trips to visit each of the areas identified to be studied.
Recommendations were made for each area relative to such things as road access, need for utility
corridors, wilderness characteristics based upon various wilderness proposals that had been made
in the past, the future of the Habitat Conservation Area, and other areas of interest identified by
any of the stake holders.

        The outcomes from this study group provided the basis of the long range plan for the
management of the public land in the county. This study and the accompanying maps provided
the information used in the preparation of the plan that was submitted to Congress for their
consideration. The findings were nearly unanimous. Once in the hands of Congress, changes
were made to the plan to satisfy various congressional leaders in both houses of Congress and
other influential lobbying groups prior to the final adoption of the land use plan by Congress.
Not everyone was satisfied with the Congressional outcome, but it did put to rest the issue of
wilderness areas in Washington County, that had been undecided since the passage of Section
603 of FLPMA , many years before. Now the challenge is for the county to work closely with
the federal land managers to make the necessary changes to meet the requirements laid down by
Congressional action.

       There are basically two parts to the update of the Plan. One involves the public lands in
the county which comprise approximately 84% of the total land area, and the privately owned
lands making up approximately 16% of the land area of the County.

        During the time that the county land use bill was being reviewed by both houses of
Congress, the county undertook a companion study of the private lands. This effort was known
as the Vision Dixie project to provide information relative to the growth of the county, and the
use of the private land therein. The project also established principles associated with
maintaining key natural features throughout this county and how public lands should support our
communities in this effort. The county, along with most of the cities and towns in the county, has
signed on to using the Vision Dixie principles in their planning efforts. These actions should be
useful in working with the federal agencies in planning on the public lands.

                                                358
       The Vision Dixie Project brought together all residents of the county who had a desire to
be involved and indicate their preferences for future development under the direction of a
professional consultant. The work was overseen by an Executive Committee and a Steering
Committee to make sure that all issues were adequately considered.

                                           Table 2
                              Vision Dixie Executive Committee

                      Last Name   First Name   Represents
                      Bracken     Lee          Mayor, Enterprise
                      Clove       Terrill      Mayor, Washington
                      Cluff       Pat          Mayor, Springdale
                      Grow        John         Mayor, Virgin
                      Hirschi     Scott        Economic Development
                      Law         Trudy        Mayor, Leeds
                      McArthur    Daniel       Mayor, St. George
                      McGuire     Dan          Mayor, Rockville
                      Powell      Ken          Mayor, Toquerville
                      Reep        Mary         Mayor, Apple Valley
                      Rosenberg   Rick         Mayor, Santa Clara
                      Webster     Joel         Mayor, New Harmony
                      Zitting     David        Mayor, Hildale


                                           Table 3
                              Vision Dixie Steering Committee
                       Last Name First Name Represents
                       Alder       Lin       Springdale, UT
                       Almquist    Gil       St. George, UT
                       Behrmann Russ         Chamber of Commerce
                       Bracken     Lee       Mayor, Enterprise
                       Clove       Terrill   Mayor, Washington
                       Cluff       Pat       Mayor, Springdale
                       Crisp       Jim       BLM
                       Empey       Mike      Congressman Matheson
                       Grow        John      Mayor, Virgin
                       Hirschi     Scott     Economic Development
                       Hunt        Edna      St. George, UT
                       Iverson     Jeri      Washington City
                       Kane        Terri     Intermountian Health Care
                                   Lorri
                       Kocinski-Puchlik      Citizen at Large
                       Koeber      Kayla     Merrill Lynch
                       Law         Trudy     Mayor, Leeds
                       McArthur    Daniel    Mayor, St. George
                       McGuire     Dan       Mayor, Rockville
                       Paddock     Doug      Central, UT
                       Perkins     Kent      St. George City
                       Powell      Ken       Mayor, Toquerville
                       Reep        Mary      Mayor, Apple Valley
                       Rosenberg Rick        Mayor, Santa Clara
                       Sapp        Carol    359
                                             SUHBA
                       Sizemore    Ken       Five County AOG
                       Stratton    Donald    Hurricane, UT
                       Webster     Joel      Mayor, New Harmony
                       Whalen      Jane      Hurricane, UT
                       Wixom       Rick      Springdale Town Manager
The Resource Management Plan and the General Plan will be a template for all public land
related decisions allowing the county to measure pubic land management decisions and
management practices.



                                         Section Two
                                        Legal Authority
        The authority for Washington County to plan for the management of natural resources
within the county derives directly from state law. In addition to this authority, provisions of
federal law allow counties to participate in, and influence, the natural resource and land
management plans of federal agencies both through use of duly adopted county plans and
through cooperative agency participation in the planning efforts for the federal lands. This
section is intended as a broad outline of the parameters for influence, not as an exhaustive
dissertation of all possibilities.

County Planning Authority:

      Section §17-27a-401 of the Utah code provides that “each county shall prepare and adopt
a comprehensive, long-range general plan,” which addresses, among other provisions, the:

       1.      Present and future needs of the county; and

       2.      Growth and development of all or any part of the land within the unincorporated
               positions of the county.

It may also provide for:


class=Section2>
              1.     Health, general welfare, safety, energy production, transportation,
              prosperity, civic activities, aesthetics, and recreational, educational, and cultural
              opportunities

class=Section3>

               2.     The efficient and economical use, conservation, and production of the
               supply of:

               a. Food and water,
               b. Drainage, sanitary and other facilities and resources,
               c. The use of energy conservation and solar and renewable energy resources,
               d. The protection of urban development,
                                                 360
               e. The protection or promotion of moderate income housing,
               f. The protection and promotion of air quality,
               g. Historic preservation,
               h. Identifying future uses of land that are likely to require an expansion or
               significant modification of services or facilities provided by each affected
               entity,
               i. An official map

               3.      In addition, the law provides that the Plan may define the local customs,
               local culture, and the components necessary for the county’s economic stability.
               (Utah Code §17-27a-41 (4) Moreover, a county may get access to certain data
               gathered and held by state agencies that may be of assistance in the county’s
               planning process. (Utah Code §17-27a-402) However, the authority to plan does
               not give the county any direct jurisdiction over lands owned by the state or federal
               governments. (Utah Code §17-27a-304.

Federal Land and Natural Resource Planning:

       Two of the major federal landowners in Utah, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM),
and the National Forest Service, are required to engage in land and natural resource planning
processes, which can affect the use and development of natural resources. The Bureau of Land
Management is required by Section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 [FLIPMA] to “develop, maintain, and... revise land use plans which provide by tracts or
areas for the use of the [BLM] lands.” Similarly, the Forest Service is required to “develop,
maintain, and... revise land and resource management plans for units of the National Forest
System.” (16 U.S.C. 1604(a)

Coordination and consistency with state, local and tribal government plans:

       Both the BLM and the Forest Service are required to coordinate their land and resource
planning efforts with those of state, local. And tribal jurisdictions. For example, the BLM is
required to:

               1.     Become appraised of State, local and tribal land use plans

               2.     Assure that consideration is given to that State, local and tribal plans that
               are germane to plans for public lands

               3.    Assist in resolving.... inconsistencies between Federal and non-Federal
               Government plans. (43 U.S.C. §1712(b)(9)

       Specifically, state and local officials are “authorized to furnish advice to the [BLM] with
respect to the development and revision of land use plans.... guidelines....rules and regulations
for the public lands.” (43 U.S.C. §1712(b)(9). This is significant because land use plans
adopted by the BLM are required to “be consistent with state and local plans to the extent

                                                361
consistent with Federal law and the purposes of [FLPMA]” (43 U. S.C. §1712(b)(9). The duly
adopted regulations of the BLM further define this consistency requirement by requiring that the
BLM’s resource management plans shall be “consistent with officially approved or adopted
resource related plans, and the policies and programs contained therein, of....State and local
governments, and Indian tribes, so long as the guidance and resource management plans are also
consistent with the purposes, policies, and programs of federal laws and regulations applicable to
public lands.”
(43 C.F.R. §1610.3-1)

        The BLM regulations also provide that “in the absence of officially approved or adopted
resource management plans of State and local governments... [Federal] resource managements
plans shall, to the maximum extent practical, be consistent with officially approved and adopted
resource related policies and programs of state and local governments.’ However, as before, this
consistency only applies to the extent the policies and programs are “consistent with the policies,
programs, and provisions of federal laws and regulations applicable to public lands.”
(43 C.F.R. §1610.3-2(b).

       The Forest Service is required to coordinate “with the land and resource management
planning processes of State and local governments.” (16 U.S.C. §1640(a). The Forest Service’s
planning regulations state that “the Responsible [Forest Service] Official must provide
opportunities for the coordination of Forest Service planning efforts with those of other resource
management agencies.” Furthermore, the agency’s planning regulations provide that the
Responsible Official should seek assistance, where appropriate, from other state and local
governments.... to help address management issues or opportunities.” (40 C.F.R. §1506.2(d).

Federal Planning Criteria:

        Counties may use duly adopted plans, programs or policies to directly influence federal
natural resource and land planning efforts by informing the federal agencies of the plans and
their provisions. As part of these plans, counties may want to make known their interpretation of
the criteria the federal planning agencies must consider as land and resource management plans
are developed. This could, for example, be used to define, among other things, the desired future
conditions for the county’s economy, lifestyle, or recreational needs of the citizens, and the
necessary use of the federal natural resources to achieve these desired future conditions.


Forest Service:

        The National Forests were originally set aside to provide a continuous supply of timber
and for the protection of water sources for local communities and agricultural needs. Later,
through the adoption of the Multiple Use Sustained Yield Act of 1960, Congress determined that
the forests should be “administered for outdoor recreation, range, timber, watershed, and fish and
wildlife purposes,” which purposes were declared to be “supplemental to, but not in derogation
of” the original purposes. (16 U.S.C. § 528)


                                               362
        The Forest Service is required to “use a systematic interdisciplinary approach to achieve
integrated consideration of physical, biological, economic, and other sciences” in its land and
resource plans. The Forest Service must assure that the plans “provide for the multiple use and
sustained yield of the products and services obtained there from in accordance with the Multiple-
Use Sustained-Yield Act of 1960, and, in particular, include coordination of outdoor recreation,
range, timber, watershed, fish and wildlife, and wilderness.” The plans must determine forest
management systems, harvesting levels [of timber] and procedures,” based upon all of the uses
mentioned above, the definitions of multiple use and sustained yield as laid out in the law, and
the availability of lands and their suitability for resource management. (16 U.C.S. §1604(b) and
(e).

       The regulations of the Forest Service specifically define principles of planning Forest
Service’s natural resources.
(36 C.F.S. § 219.3)

        Land management planning is an adaptive management process that includes social,
economic, and ecological evaluation; plan development, plan amendment, and plan economic,
and ecological evaluation; plan development, plan amendment, and plan revision, and
monitoring. The overall aim of planning is to produce responsible land management for the
National Forest System based on useful and current information and guidance. Land
management and planning guides the Forest Service in fulfilling its responsibilities for
stewardship of the National Forest System to best meet the needs of the American people.
(36.C.F.R. § 219.3(a).

       The Forest Service is also required, as part of the development and interpretation of
information for plans, to consider and incorporate the concept and conditions of sustainability.
“Sustainability has been interrelated and interdependent elements; social economic, and
ecological.” (36 C.F.R. § 29.10).

         The overall goal of the social and economic elements of sustainability is to contribute to
sustaining social and economic systems within the plan area. To understand the social and
economic contributions that National Forest System lands presently make, and may make in the
future, the [Forest Service] must evaluate relevant economic and social conditions and trends
during plan development (36 C.F.R. § 219.10(a).

        Expectations for ecological sustainability as well as ecosystem and species diversity are
also provided.

Bureau of Land Management:

        FLPMA provides that the BLM must manage the lands under its jurisdiction (called
public lands) “in a manner that will protect the quality of scientific, scenic, historical, ecological,
environmental, air and atmospheric, water resource, and archeological values” and will provide
for, among other things, “outdoor recreation and human occupancy and uses,” and “food and
habitat for fish and wildlife and domestic animals.” However, the BLM must specifically

                                                 363
manage the public lands “in a manner which recognizes the Nation’s need for domestic sources
of minerals, food, timber, and fiber from the public lands.” (43 U.S.C. § 1701 (8) and (12).

       The BLM is required to “use and observe the principles of multiple use and sustained
yield” and, just as the Forest Service must “use a systematic and interdisciplinary approach to
achieve integrated consideration of physical, biological, economic, and other sciences” in the
preparation of its plans. (43 U.S.C. § 1712(c)(1) and (2). The BLM must also “consider present
and potential uses of the public lands” and “provide for the compliance with applicable pollution
control laws, including State and Federal air, water, noise, or other pollution standards or
implementation plans.” (43 U.S.C. § 1712(c)(5) and (8).

Multiple-Use and Sustained Yield:

        Both the Forest Service and the BLM are required to mange the lands under their
jurisdiction pursuant to the principles of “multiple use” and “sustained yield.” These terms have
been defined within the provisions of FLPMA for the BLM and within the provisions of the
Multiple-Use Sustained Yield Act of 1960 for the Forest Service. Both definitions are lengthy
and worthy of careful study. It is apparent that the definitions are not crystal clear, leading to
differing interpretations concerning development or preservation of the natural resources and the
environment.

        The definitions do state, however, that multiple uses are to be considered in the context of
the best combination of land use that meet the present and future needs of the nation with respect
to recreation, range, timber, minerals, watershed, fish and wildlife, and natural, scenic, and
historical values. “Furthermore, it states that these resources are to be managed in a “harmonious
and coordinated” manner that does not lead to “permanent impairment the productivity of the
land and quality of the environment.” Finally, multiple use does not, by definition, mean the
greatest economic return or the greatest unit output” for the natural resources. (43 U.S.C. § 1702
c) See also (16 U.S.C. § 531(a). For the Forest Service, the “establishment and maintenance of
areas of wilderness” is specifically determined to be consistent with the principle of multiple use.
(16 U.S.C. 529).

         The term “sustained yield” is defined to mean the achievement of a “high level annual
or regular periodic output of the various renewable resources of the public land consistent with
multiple use.” (43 U.S.C. § 1702(h). Se also 16 U.S.C. § 531(b).

National Environmental Policy Act and Cooperating Agency Status

        Preparation of land and natural resource management plans by BLM and the Forest
Service is a major federal action requiring the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement
(EIS) under the provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). (42 U.S.C. §
4231 et. seq.) NEPA requires federal agencies to fully disclose the nature and condition of the
environment within the area of interest. Under NEPA, agencies must formulate various
alternatives for proposed management, and to compare those alternatives to a “no-action”
alternative of continuing the current management scheme. NEPA specifically requires the

                                                364
agency preparing the EIS to seek decisions that, among other things, “attain the widest range of
beneficial uses of the environment without degradation,” “preserve important historic, cultural
and natural aspects of our national heritage,” “achieve a balance between population and
resource use which will permit high standards of living and a wide sharing of life’s amenities.”
(42 U.S.C. 4331 (b).

        The development of an EIS by a federal agency as a part of the process to decide upon a
land and resource management plan or proposed project has a number of well established steps.
Each of these steps provides as an opportunity for comment by local government based upon
their own plans and policies. These steps, in general, are:

               1.      The “scoping” of the issues

               2.      Preparation of an analysis of the management situation

               3.    Preparation of the various alternatives with the associated necessary
               management scenarios and conditions

               4.      Issuance of a “draft EIS” for public comment

               5.      Issuance of a final EIS and the “proposed record of decision,” which lays
               out the proposed final decision including the terms and conditions for
               management of the lands and natural resources for the life of the plan or for that
               specific project

        Issuance of the proposed record of decision is followed by a period for protest by
interested parties, which, upon resolution of the protests, is followed by adoption of the record of
decision and implementation of the plan.

        For plans of the BLM, the Governor of the State is given an opportunity for a consistency
review immediately following the issuance of the Proposed Record of Decision. BLM is
required to “identify any known inconsistencies with State or local plan, policies, or programs,”
and to “assist in resolving, to the extent practical, inconsistencies between Federal and non-
Federal Government plans.” The Governor is given sixty (60) days to “identify inconsistencies
and provide recommendations in writing” in response. The BLM must accept the
recommendations of the Governor if the BLM State Director determines that the
recommendations “provide for a reasonable balance between the national interest” and the
State’s interest. (43 U.S.C. §1712(b)(9) and 43 C.F.R. § 1610.3-2(e). See also 40 C.F.R. -
1506.2(d).

        The Federal Council on Environmental Quality has issued regulations related to the
implementation of NEPA. One of these regulations provides for the elimination of duplication
with state and local processes. The regulation requires agencies to “cooperate” with state and
local agencies to the fullest extent possible to reduce duplication between NEPA and state and
local requirements. This cooperation specifically includes:

                                                365
               1.      Joint planning processes

               2.      Joint environmental research and studies

               3.      Joint public hearings

                4.      Joint environmental assessments (40 C.F.R. § 1506.2(b)
        The Council on Environmental Quality has also supported an invitation to state and local
governments to become “cooperating agencies” in the preparation of federal land and natural
resource management plans and associated EIS’s. The invitation to become a cooperating
agency is not based on the fact that state or local governments are entities that may be affected
by the outcome of the process. Instead, cooperating agency status is specifically based upon
state or local government’s position as professionals having jurisdiction by law in the planning
area or professionals holding special expertise in an issue that will be addressed in the analysis or
decision. (memo from James Connaughton, Chairman of the CEQ). This status does not relieve
the federal agency of the responsibility as the decision-maker, and does not guarantee a decision
that the responsibility as the decision-maker, and does not guarantee a decision that the
cooperating agency may necessarily favor. Cooperating agency status does allow the
cooperators to participate in the scoping process, the inventory of data and analysis of the current
situation process, the preparation of alternatives, the impact analysis, and in the current situation
process, the preparation of alternatives, the impact analysis, and in the preparation of the draft
and final EIS’s. Participation as a cooperating agency in federal planning efforts will
specifically require the cooperators to respect the timing and confidentiality inherent in the
federal process. Failure to adhere to these conditions may lead to revocation of cooperating
agency status. BLM has proposed a regulatory rule change that would solidify the cooperating
agency concept in BLM planning, stating that a “cooperating agency relationship” would
implement the requirement under FLPMA to coordinate with state and local government (69
F.R. 43378.)

State Planning Coordinator Responsibilities:

        The State Planning Coordinator is authorized to prepare plans, programs, and policies for
the state that, among other things:

               1.     “incorporate the plans, policies programs, processes, and desired outcomes
               of the counties where the federal lands or natural resources are located, to the
               maximum extent consistent with state and federal law...”

               2.      “develop, research, and use factual information, legal analysis, and
               statements of desired future conditions,” for the regions of the state “as necessary
               to support the plans, policies, programs, processes, and desired outcomes of the
               state and counties where the federal lands, or natural resources are located”

       3. Establish and coordinate agreements with federal agencies that facilitate state and

                                                366
           local participation in the development, revision and implementation of federal plans.

       (Utah Code § 63-38d-401)

        The state law continues by establishing findings that shall be considered by state and
local governments as they interact with the federal agencies in the preparation of federal land and
natural resource management plans. These findings provide the framework for the necessary
considerations of state and local plans and policies, which the federal agencies are required to
consider s a part of their planning efforts. The findings include a definition of multiple use that
emphasizes support for state and local plans that include watersheds timber, food, fiber, livestock
and wildlife forage, and minerals, necessary to meet the present needs and future economic
growth and community expansion, as well as meet the recreational needs and the personal and
business related transportation needs, of the citizens of the state without impairing the
productivity of the land.

        The findings also indicate, for example, that; the federal government must seek water
rights within the state appropriation system; federal agencies must support the purposes of the
school trust lands compact in their land management decisions; development of the solid, fluid,
and gaseous minerals of the state is important to the state’s economy ; wildlife is an important
part of the recreational opportunity; within the state, and the economy, Furthermore, the findings
indicate parameters for state and local government support or opposition to specific federal land
planning issues such as areas of critical environmental concern, wild and scenic river studies,
exchanges of land, agricultural production and open space management of forests in a healthy
manner, off-highway vehicle use, and predator control. (See Utah Code 63-38d-401(6) and (7)
for the complete listing and findings.)

Federal Advisory Committee Act:

        The Federal Advisory Committee Act of 1972 (FACA) was enacted to formalize and
stabilize the process which federal agencies receive advice from the interested parties. It
establishes conditions under which federal agencies may establish such committees; how they
must be composed and chartered, and requires meetings and activities to be open to the public.
FACA does not affect the requirement under FLPMA to coordinate with state and local
governments, nor does it affect the establishment of a cooperating agency relationship. FACA
also does not apply to any state or local committee or other group including land and natural
resource utilization issues. (5 U.S.C. Appendix)




                                               367
                                     Section Three
                                  Economic Conditions

       This section of the Washington County Resource Management Plan provides a basic
overview of Washington County economic and demographic characteristics. This section of the
Resource Management Plan was prepared as an economic report by the Bureau of Economic and
Business Research, at the University of Utah in June, 2008.

                                          Table 4

An Analysis of Long-Term Economic Growth in Southwestern Utah: Past and Future Conditions




                                                                                !"
# $ %&                                                                            !'
& (                                                                         '
) *    (*                                                                        !
& ( ) *            ($ + ,                                                   -'


.     / , #        0,       (              1,       2,         !             !
                                              !                            "
/ , 1,        2,     * 3             0.      1,      2,                    "
#    +             1, 2,                                                 ! !
                                                                           "
1, 2 / ,*                                                                  !
& 4 #    +    1, 2,   3+ *                                           # ,5    3
6 * +                                                                                  "
     . (                                                                             ! "
)    6   (3 +   *** +                                                      '         ' "
     ,                                                                                 "
 ++ ,, (   (/ (3    +*                                                 !               "


.75                     3  *,     *                                             -
                   $0      % (4* (                                                   !"
& 4    6                  *,    *                                     ,              3
     & + (*                                                          -' !             ''"
&   8 +*                                                             -'' '              "
9 (   (  (                                                           -   '              "
                                            368
    6               3    *                                            -


.       #       +        :     *     ,            *                       -
                                                                          '
                  $0         % (4* (                                      '"
            &    2:                                                     - '!
.           *    $+ ,           !,   *                                  -
                  $0         % (4* (                                  !    "


                                                                      # ,5           3
.   ) * ; *                                                           ! '
.   <++    (; * *     0        *     *                                    !              '"
<    %<++    ( *    0    ++   (                                       '   !              '"
     %<++    ( *    0    ++    (                                                          "
  +         3 *    ; **      0      *                             *     !                 "
& ( 3 * + 017*         3    %/ , 2) , *                                 - '!
#      , %      = (>     ; *                                            !
8     0 *(       6 * +          ,   *                                   -'!
8     0#    *(     6 * +          ,    *                                -' !
? (<      *                                                            + *    3
      2<    (                                                           '        "
/(    2<     (                                                              !    "
3   <    (                                                                    ! "
.                                                                      !!       "

    !
.               = (/.11        ,
.       >       *    ((                                                          '

"!       #
         2. 7 + *                    ,      *                           -
3 *. 7 *> *5 * (                     ,       *                          - !
#    @ (           0      *         +        (     *
Sources: Utah Population Estimates Committee; U.S. Census Bureau; Utah Governor’s Office of
Planning and Budget; Bureau of Economic
and Business Research, University of Utah; Utah Department of Workforce Services; U.S.
Bureau of Economic Analysis; USDA 2002
Census of Agriculture; Utah State Tax Commission; Utah Automated Geographic Reference
Center; Utah System of Higher Education.




                                            369
An Analysis of Long-Term Economic Growth in Southwestern Utah: Past and Future Conditions
Executive Summary


                         !                          "                !
                #                                   !!                   !

$ %                          &
                            '!                                                              ()& ! !
                          !!
%                        * +)!                               ,

-!                                                                                    $ %
                                                                     !
                    !!               .          $

/                                !                  !!
                                                           !!                                           '
!                            !!                              !                    0 *           /
                     1

      !
                                                                         !
                                 !

                                                                                  !
          ! $ %                          % !                             !!                 +


               !!                                            ')                       ' +
%                        + ++ !                )!                            !!
%

                         !!              2 !        3) !         4                                  #
                                          !!           3                      !         "
                             4                      2 !
           !!

$ % +                    !                 ) )%                                    '!
           5                                           (&!               $        6
                !                "

                                                       !
                                                     370
            &'((             6                                                              ,               #7
        6                                       % +

An Analysis of Long-Term Economic Growth in Southwestern Utah: Past and Future Conditions

                                                                                                                       .
                                          8                    % +                                           %         6
                                  '                                       )%

9                      6      !                                  !                               # 6
        :'                                :&                   % +                              #


                                                                                :% '                   :%( )         % +3
             % +            4                              (!
&!                          % +

;                                    !                                                                   !                 #
;       <                   $2     <. 9                    ;                        !                  ! ! /
                                   !                        *

                                          #               5                ! !                               "
  0                                                                                     "                         !
  /                  #       !                      #                                                              0
& !                ! !
                                               3'+ !           4                $                 0          #             #
                                                   !                      0 *

0            '!                                                       !
                                                        )!                                   3
                        =    ;                           =;4       >$ =0                    )!         >$ =0
                                          !

        =;                                          !
          ?             !                      =;                                                  !             !
$                                             !                       !                                !
                                      "

                                                               "              #                                  $ % +
    !                   +!                                                 3: +                    4
              !        !   :                        !
!!                .!                                                         !!
                               !               % +                          > ="                        :
!       !                   :' %



                                                                371
$ %                                                                          )+( +              9
              %% !                                                   !        !                  #                                  ?
        & &')  !                         '% !                            #     !                                           !
           ;                     #                                                                                 %

?            !       (                                                                                        !
                                                                     !

An Analysis of Long-Term Economic Growth in Southwestern Utah: Past and Future Conditions

                                     !
    !                                    @         A                 $

                     !                                                                          )
         :%                  8           !
                     .           :                                               " % &          %                  !
                             !                                                              0
% +           : '&                                                                                                             ! 6
                                                       $2       <. ;                                                   !          % %
             : &

<. >
                         6           !
                                                        !

B                                            !     <.                        !    %)                   ('                           *
    #         7                              ' C'%                               &% %       % +C  >    '
                                                                 B               ! "         &)'( % (C &
                    !                          3            4
    <.           % (C &                            34                                       "        !
                      3%4                                                    !                           !             < . 0!!
                                         3(4                                 !!          7                %               !
                 )

B                            !                     !        % '                                                            8 B <.
         !        %          <.                                              +                           & '                8 B
                      %                        ()+%

>              ' #'%                                                                                                           <.
              & !                    %)'                (    ;                                                <.
                                 '+& % +C                   <.               !!         !
                      3+'&       '+& % 4

<.                                                                       <.                                    !
        3 !                  %       C 4                              $ % +C                             (&


                                                                     372
              !               6                        %    C
            3))4                         3&'4

B                                 <.         ! 6                                             #            %%
2                                            !                              ! 6
                                                       !
                      .                                                  ! 6
8       %           %%                                       !!           .!              !                      '' +
!                 % '+&                  !                                  ) !                        , .
                                             & !           and                                        %)!

An Analysis of Long-Term Economic Growth in Southwestern Utah: Past and Future Conditions

?                     !!
                                                                       '% !               ! 6
          !!                         %            %%                      !        )!                ! !


            " #               !!                 ! 6                                             !         *      %%
                                         !                              '     +&
                      %                      #        !!                            ' !                   %'(%+ %
      %+              %%


!!                    ! 6                                                   " #                       #    !!
8  %                  %%                          #    !!          3+)D4 ! 6
&!                                                                    ( !    8                         !
                  !!                                                                                 %% $
                                         1                   ! 6                                                  #
!!                5                  > =" 1                   <

          !                   ! 6                                                                          6
' !                              6                                     % )    %%                             !        (
!                     6                                                       !         + !               % )

                  #                                                               3% !                     4
                   3+ !   4!                                                        3) !    4
    !             3&( ! 4/                                                              ! 6
    !

                                     !                     ! 6
                          $ % )                                  !                      %!                %%
    ! 6                                  )%!

              #                      ! !
                          !

                                                                 373
          ! .                  .!                                            1>
           0                                                   !
                                    #                 E       F          -        .= G
-    >!      HH




                                     Section Four
                     Statement on Existing Management Conditions
        Washington County is located in the southwest corner of the State of Utah. It has
historically been a rural county, and except for the St. George metropolitan area of St. George
Ivins, Santa Clara, and Washington, is still largely rural. The population and growth centers are
located in the above areas, which, along with the Hurricane valley are the centers of growth and
development.

        Washington County is part of a high desert climate similar to other parts of the Colorado
Plateau. Summers are generally hot and dry with daytime temperatures regularly in excess of
one hundred degrees. Evening temperatures cool off because the clear desert skies to not hold
heat that well. A night time change of thirty or more degrees in not uncommon.

        Winter temperatures generally are in the forties and fifties during the daytime, and for
short periods will dip below freezing at night. Rainfall is about eight inches annually. The
northern parts of the County, the Enterprise and New Harmony areas of the county, are very
similar to the rest of the State of Utah with warm summers and cold winters with a certain
amount of snowfall during the winter season.

        The county consists of 1,553,000 acres, of which about 16% is private and the other
83% is public land. Of the public land, 70% is administered by the federal government, 5% by
state government, and 2% is an Indian Reservation. See Table II for approximate acreage of
each category of land.
                                            Table 5
                                  Land Ownership Summary

Land Ownership                                      Acres            Percentage

National Forest - Dixie National Forest             390,000               25%

Bureau of Land Management                           700,000               45%

Zion National Park                                  125,000                  8%

Paiute Indian Reservation                           27,000                   2%

                                              374
State and Institutional Trust Lands                   75,000                  5%

Private ownership –                                   236,000               16%
including city and county lands

**Five County Association of Governments website: fcaog.state.ut.us



Current Resource Management Conditions:               1,553,000 acres       100%

       Partnerships:

        The county recognizes the efforts that the various management agencies have made to
inform the county of planning processes underway, or decisions that have been made. The
cooperative efforts in Washington County have generally been at a reasonable level. Obviously,
there is always room for improvement on the part of the county, and on the part of the other
agencies.    Given the county’s responsibility to all county residents, as well as the county’s
overall responsibility for the welfare of visitors to the county, whether they are on private or
public lands, it follows that the partnership between the managing agencies and the county
should be more than simple cooperating agency status. What the county does impacts the public
lands, and what the agencies do impacts the residents of the county. Therefore, every effort
should be made, at all levels, to coordinate activities, jointly plan as much as possible, and
cooperate fully on all levels. That should be the goal of the county and agencies involved in the
county.

       Consistency:

        Washington County enjoys a positive relationship with all of the agencies that manage
the federal and state lands in the county. Our association with the various managing agencies
during the process that led to the preparation of the county land use plan that was submitted to
Congress showed a great degree of cooperation. However, in some instances, county input is
gathered after a significant amount of planning has already been done, not always allowing the
county to effectively meet our responsibilities and expectations as a planning partner. The
county will continue update this county public resource management plan in an effort to more
efficiently address the many public land issues that arise, and more fully meet the needs of all the
many stakeholders for whom it has responsibility.

       Local Economic Impact:

       The county is concerned that insufficient weight is often times given to economic impacts
when considering public land management practices. There have been changes in management
philosophy over time, much of it due to Congressional rules and regulation changes. Often local
managers must work within very narrow parameters to solve complex and difficult land use
problems. This is further complicated by intense pressure from various advocacy groups,

                                                375
individuals who have had long-standing use access to public lands in ways which may now be
limited by changing philosophies. These changes impact the ever increasing numbers of people
who use the lands.

        The concern of the county is that, in light of all of these factors, socio-economic impacts
often become the last consideration in the planning processes and management decisions. This
concern is two-fold. First, while the county gives substantial weight to certain subjective values,
such as “sense of community”, rural atmosphere, historic relevance, and local culture and custom
when planning, the managing agencies seem limited within their planning processes in their
ability to give adequate consideration to such concepts. Second, there is some difference
between what the county would consider economically feasible, and what the agencies deem to
have economic value. Such concepts are clearly open to much interpretation, given the many
ways to evaluate, assess, and balance potential values, both real and conceptual in any planning
process. Washington County cannot overstate the importance of giving sufficient weight to all
potential socio-economic impacts when public land management decisions are made. The
economic needs of the county must be considered when developing plans and making
recommendations that affect the custom and culture of the county.             This concept is further
discussed in the goals and objectives section of this plan.

        Another important example of underestimating economic impacts by federal agencies is
in the area of transportation and, and RS2477 rights-of-way. The recreation community is wide
spread and growing, and generally the impact on communities is very positive. Several
extensive and connecting trails systems run throughout the county, and the benefit to the county
from recreational activities is very substantial. Yet, it seems sometimes that management
practices appear to be more focused on controlling these activities than enhancing appropriate
opportunities.

        The county is also concerned about the fact that much of the land in the county is being
closed to mineral exploration. The western part of the county has not been explored thoroughly
with an eye to determining the true mineral potential for more large scale mineral developments
even though individual permits and some minimal exploration has been done for the past 150
years. In addition to sand and gravel resources, which continually become more difficult to find
and develop, it is known that there are likely other resources yet undeveloped in the county. We
know that gold exists in certain areas. Other, often rare, minerals are also known to exist. The
western part of the county, as well as some other parts, has not been adequately studied to see
what might be found. The county believes that minerals should be extracted with great care for
the environment, but the good of the environment should not be used as a tool to close public
lands to mineral extraction. There should be a good balance, and due consideration should be
given to the economic importance to our natural resources on public land to the county’s overall
economic health. Washington County is the only place in the world with enough ore to mine
gallium and germanium.

       Relative Impacts:

       The county acknowledges that the public land belongs to the national public as a whole.

                                                376
However, this does not diminish the fact that the county is more directly affected by local
management decisions than those who live outside the county or the state. Washington County
is directly impacted by decisions regarding public lands, and is personally accountable to its
residents, and therefore should have a significant role in the management decisions made
regarding public lands within its boundaries.

        There are many stake holder and advocacy groups with seemingly endless proposals for
management of the public lands in Washington County. However, the county asserts that all
stakeholder interests in the care and use of our public lands are important, and no single special
interest should rise above others nor sway federal managers from their decision-making process,
particularly after plans have been completed through the public planning process.

        The county supports managing timber resources, utilizing insect-killed timber, improving
wildlife habitat, watershed conditions, and fire control. The county also supports preserving the
natural scene, and maintaining AUMs for agriculture, a long -term use, to support the local
economy. But there is a concern that more and more historically used activities are under
increased scrutiny, and the potential for continuing to create special use lands are becoming more
and more prevalent.

        Washington County has always been a multiple use county. At the present time, with the
passage of the land bill by congress, 30 percent of the public land in the county is now single use
land. Consequently, lands set aside for single purpose use provide conflict with existing uses,
putting undue pressure on federal managing agencies to justify their management decisions and
often requiring them to spend large resources of time and money defending those decisions in
court. The county’s position on designation of special areas is addressed in the policy section of
this plan.

         It is of concern to the county that local land managers seem to have continually
increasing pressures which limit their being able to manage the land resource for the best good of
the resource and the public. National scrutiny of every action, combined with the continual
litigation over every decision, creates a management problem to a large extent, and limits the
ability of those who are closest to the land to make decisions which are best for the land.

        Washington County believes that this is an unfortunate by-product of interest advocacy,
rapidly growing use, and ballooning national interest in public land management issues, as well
as a number of other factors. It is not a healthy atmosphere for managing our public lands. It is
the county’s hope that cooperative efforts will assist the federal and state managers in their
process of making management decisions, and in defending those decisions, with the result being
a healthier environment for the resource as well as the user.




                                               377
                                    Section Five:
                  Statement on Desired Future Management Setting
        The difficulty in defining an ideal future management setting lies in the fact that the
county does not control all of the lands within the county boundaries. With federal and state
lands surrounding all of the private land, there are many management decisions that are made
outside the county’s influence and reach. No future condition can be ideal unless the county is
able to appropriately influence public land management policy in accordance with Federal Law.

        An ideal situation would be a blend of purposes and vision, shared by the various public
land managers and county leaders in an ongoing effort to protect and conserve our natural
resources while working to accommodate growth, planning appropriately for an increased
interface between public and private lands, and preserving for public use and viewing, important
historic sites both on public and private lands, while also working for increased economic value.
To achieve this blend of vision it will require efforts on the part of both the county and the public
land managers. While the county’s relationship with our land managers is good, we desire to
make it even better.

        Due to the interface between public and private lands, county land use policies are always
influenced by surrounding public land management policies. The goals of the county are directly
tied to state and federal land management practices. The key to future land use management
rests on the ability of the county to increase the frequency and effectiveness of a collaborative
process.

       Elements of a Desired Future Management Setting:

         In spite of the growth of Washington County, there is still a good mix of rural and urban
development due to its unique mix and location of public and private lands. The county would
like to continue the support orderly residential, commercial, industrial, and agricultural growth.
Development should occur in an orderly manner, and in locations that enhance and preserve the
socio-economic well-being of the residents while also contributing to the economic stability of
the county. The county will work to identify and preserve appropriate open spaces, connecting
trail systems, agricultural areas, and transportation systems, as well as potential commercial and
industrial areas, The county has been, and will continue to be, an appealing place to live, work,
and visit. It is an area made up of vibrant communities, productive agricultural enterprises, and
valuable natural and cultural resources.

        In order to preserve vital recreational opportunity, protect the rural lifestyle of many of its
residents, encourage and preserve historic agricultural activities, and maintain and provide
adequate services, the county has encouraged growth to take place inside existing communities
and infrastructure as much as possible. All planning, zoning, and growth must take into account
the values important to the residents of the county as identified through the Vision Dixie
planning process. Due to the proximity of large areas of public land, the county will work to
enhance opportunities provided by the variety of public lands in the county, while working to
minimize the impacts from those same lands. The county will remain sensitive to private
                                                 378
landowner rights and will work to balance those rights with the public interest.

       Basic Future Management Principles:

        Federal lands should be managed in a way that protects and improves the health, safety,
and environment of our citizens, and improve the performance of the economy without imposing
unacceptable or unreasonable costs or impacts to the local structure. The county recognizes that
the private sector and private markets are the best engines for economic growth, that regulatory
policies should respect the role of state and local governments; and public lands policies and
regulations should be effective, consistent, practical, and understandable.

       Public land management practices should work to accomplish the following:

               1.     Protect the integrity of environmental systems and natural resources

               2.     Preserve resource based industries

               3.     Promote a robust, diverse, and stable economy

               4.     Minimize conflicts between land uses

               5.     Protect public health, safety, and welfare

               6.     Preserve culture, customs, heritage and economic diversity, and

               7.     Recognize and protect private rights in federal and state land resources
               including rights-of-way, grazing permits, water rights, special use permits, leases,
               contracts, and recreation use permits and licenses.

        It is interesting to note the similarities between many these recommended public land
policies, and the private land management policies that resulted from the Vision Dixie Project.
The Vision Dixie Project provided a summary of guiding principles to guide the development of
the private land in the county. These are listed as follows:

               1.     Plan Regionally, Implement locally,

               2.     Maintain Air & Water Quality, and conserve water,

               3.     Guard our “signature” scenic landscapes,

               4.     Provide rich, connected natural recreation and open space,

               5.     Build balanced transportation that includes a system of public
               transportation, connected roads, and meaningful opportunities to bike and walk,


                                                379
              6.      Get centered by focusing growth on walk able, mixed-use centers,

              7.      Direct growth inward,

              8.       Provide a broad range of housing types to meet the needs of all income
              levels, family types, and stages of life,

              9.      Reserve key areas for industry to grow the economic pie,

              10.    Focused public land conversion should sustain community goals and
              preserve critical lands.

       In studying these principles more closely, many are directly related to those policies for
public land maintenance listed above. For purposes of land use planning efforts, and
management decisions on public lands in the county, federal and state agencies shall develop and
maintain cooperating agency status for all major federal and state land management actions.

       Cooperative Conservation:

         The county supports state and federal land management that is based on cooperative
conservation, meaning actions that relate to the use, enhancement, and enjoyment of natural
resources, protection of the environment, or both, and that involves collaborative activity among
federal, state, and local governments, private for-profit and non-profit institutions, other non-
governmental entities and individuals.

         Federal land managers must facilitate cooperative conservation by fully involving local
governmental entities including the county commission. In so doing, they should take
appropriate account of, and respect the interests of persons with ownership or other legally
recognized interests in land and its natural resources. They should also more fully accommodate
local participation in federal decision-making, and provide that the programs, projects, and
activities are consistent with protecting public health, safety, and welfare. The county will not
give its support to projects unless a federal agency has appropriately involved local government
entities.

       Customs and Culture:

         Major land uses of federal state lands in Washington County, include livestock grazing,
harvesting of forest products, water source development, and a broad spectrum of recreation
activities from primitive use to developed recreation sites, and both motorized and non-
motorized use of roads and trails. It is this myriad of land uses that forms the basis for the
customs and culture of the citizens of the county.

       The traditions of the citizens are based on continuing these land uses. Maintaining the
county’s customs and culture includes these activities, and maintaining the uses that the Vision
Dixie Project identified as being important to the county residents.

                                              380
        The customs and culture of the county is tied closely to the public lands. Close
communication and cooperation with public land managers is a necessary part of maintaining the
customs and culture of the county. Other important issues include the land’s inherent value as
open space available for use by the public at large, the land’s natural role in providing habitat for
flora and fauna, the protection of watersheds and significant scenic landscapes, and its role as a
vessel for historical and cultural values associated with human use of the land.

        Washington County supports the maintenance and enhancement of the customs and
culture of the county, and opposes any change in land use that does not evaluate, mitigate, and
minimize impacts to custom and culture, and the economic growth and stability of the county.

        Federal managers shall incorporate the social, cultural, and economic needs of the county
when developing plans or projects and making recommendations that affect the customs and
cultural of the county. Furthermore, the consideration process used to assess impacts to county
customs and culture shall be cited in federal or state land management plans as well as the steps
taken to incorporate protection of the county’s customs, culture and historical heritage into each
plan and project.

       The county will review and respond to federal and state land use and planning issues
impacting the county’s customs and culture, and make recommendations pertinent to any issue in
question. Responsible use of federal lands is a use that benefits the customs, culture, heritage,
and economic base of the county.

        Federal and state agencies will notify the county of any actions, proposals, policies, or
regulations which may impact the customs and culture of the county. The county will review
and comment on such federal or state actions. Communication and coordination are two
important aspects of maintaining a proper relationship between the county and the public
agency’s.

        Local government agencies, including the county, cities and towns, the school district and
the local state college, public health care providers, Five County Associations of Governments,
and other local agencies, all have important and useful data and other information regarding
economic and cultural trends that may not be available from state or federal data sources. It is
the policy of the county that federal and state land managers seek out and take into account data
and information available from local sources when developing plans and/or making
recommendations, thus providing for close cooperation in all aspects of planning and decision
making.

        Management of federal and state lands will recognize valid existing rights and interests in
federal land. Livestock grazing established by permit and preference, mineral leases, mining
claims, recreation permits, and concessionaire contracts, and rights-of-way form the backbone of
the county’s communities, and their custom and culture.

       It is important that these values, as defined by the county’s customs, culture, and heritage,

                                                381
be recognized as a resource as important as any other resource relating to public lands. The
cities and towns, and the public lands surrounding them are deeply inter-connected and customs
and culture must be recognized as a vital resource to be protected, enhanced, and managed in the
same manner as any other important natural resource.

        In Washington County’s desired future condition, all public land management plans and
policy making must take into account these community values, and must always reconcile any
differences between this plan and federal or state management planning documents prior to
adoption and implementation.

       The county’s desired future condition would include the following elements:

              1.      Collaboration, communication and cooperation is the key to a desired
              future condition where public lands play such a dominating role in any goal-
              setting or planning within the county. The county seeks a balance of objectives
              with all stakeholders, while voiding conflicting interests that serve no useful
              purpose. This balance can only be obtained when collaboration is involved at
              every level of planning and policy-making, and when all stake holders have a role
              in developing management of the desired future county policy from the ground
              up.

              2.      Any desired future condition must also involve an expansion of the
              tourism and recreation industry, and coordinating public land management policy
              that allows for and compliments this expansion. The public lands are a
              tremendous asset, and the county desires to more fully capitalize on the many
              recreational opportunities on the adjacent public lands within the county. This
              expansion with accompanying infrastructure will benefit not only county
              residents, but visitors to the county as well.

              3.      The county’s desired future condition must also include the continued
              development of the natural resources of the county. This would include
              expanding the current natural resource industry, along with improvements to
              infrastructure, access and the permitting process. It should also include expansion
              of renewable energy.

              4.      In a desired future condition, the county’s customs and culture will be
              protected as vital and important as any other natural resource associated with our
              public lands. Since the customs and culture of the county are inseparably
              connected with the surrounding public lands, public land management policy
              must account for the county’s customs and culture, and must recognize the
              importance of protecting, enhancing and preserving historic sites and uses, which
              are part of the county’s heritage, and making them available for public visitation.
              Part of our customs and culture is our system of transportation and rights-of-way
              for travel throughout the county. These are the things that make up the essential
              elements of its customs and culture.

                                              382
                                    Section Six
                      Planning Guidelines and Policy Statements
       The policy statements contained herein are an outgrowth of planning efforts by the
county in planning for both public and private lands in the county, the approval by Congress of
the Washington County Land Use Bill, and the basic responsibility of the commission to care for
the welfare of all the residents of the county.

        The county supports multiple uses, sustained yield management of federal and state
lands, and will work with the various management agencies to maintain appropriate balance
among all users and uses. Maintaining multiple use management practices on federal state lands
is a high county priority. Maintaining adequate public access to federal and state lands and
accompanying natural resources is also a county priority.

        The county acknowledges that the terms multiple-use and sustained yield may be
interpreted many different ways. For purposes of this plan, the county defines sustained yield as
the management of resources in a manner that will support a consistent level of use on a year-to-
year basis. The county defines multiple-use as the consumptive and non-consumptive uses
historically and traditionally allowed to occur on federal and state lands within the county.
These uses include, but are not limited to, the following: hunting, fishing, livestock grazing,
mining and mineral exploration and extraction, recreation, wildlife habitat management,
telecommunications, water resource use, protection and development of timber/woodland
products, utility corridors, and county transportation and circulation roads and corridors.

        The county asserts that the above uses, as well as many others, are compatible in most
management situations, and that true multiple use management creates opportunities for the land
to be used for many purposes simultaneously. The county does not define multiple uses of
federal and state resources, and will support and participate in efforts to identify appropriate uses
and locations for those uses.

       Special Land Designation:

       Washington County was opposed to additional land being designated as wilderness, over
and above the original BLM and Forest Service recommendations. The county supported
designation of those areas identified in the plan generally approved by the broad coalition of
stake holders that reviewed the public land in the county and precipitated submission of the land
use plan to Congress. Additional land was designated in the bill approved by Congress after the
county had submitted their recommendation.

       There have now been numerous special land designations in Washington County. These
include eighteen (18) designated wilderness areas, two (2) National Conservation Areas (NCA),
one (1) large Habitat Conservation Area, ten (10) Areas of Special Environmental Concern,
many thousands of acres of Critical Habitat, and other special designations.

                                                383
        Washington County, while not in support of many areas of this type, will accept the
decisions that have been made on the public lands, and will work closely with the public land
managers to develop management plans that will meet the requirements of the public lands, and
also be able to be identified as a part of the Washington County General Plan. The only way to
make this successful is for close cooperation between the county and the public land managers.
The county looks forward to this type of cooperation.

       The county is aware of proposals by different interest groups to implement additional
special land designations in order to achieve their specific land-use goals. The county is
concerned that many of these proposals do not consider the economic impacts to the county,
communities, and agencies which special use designations impact. In addition, the wilderness
area designation proposals made by wilderness groups have not included input from local
government, communities, nor residents of the county. These proposals have had no public
process outside the members of the particular groups involved. The county and its residents
should have had an equal voice in determining the validity of such proposals.

       All special designations should be made to compliment, rather than conflict with the
concept of multiple uses of public lands. These areas should also be in harmony with the
customs and culture that have been identified in the county. More attention must be made as to
how the designations can be made to harmonize with all other aspects of county planning.

       The same concerns that exist in the county relative to the management of BLM lands
should apply equally to forest lands in the county. The county appreciates the relationship that it
has had as a cooperating agency with the update of the forest lands plan in the county. That
same, or class=Section 4>even greater, coordination should exist with the BLM in the amending,
or updating, of the BLM management plan as a result of the recent Congressional action.

       Water Resources:

        Water is the life blood of Washington County. Water quality and availability has
historically determined the level, type, and location of existing growth. This pattern would
continue into the future except for the fact that new distribution systems have made water more
available throughout the county. The county encourages and supports the efficient management
and use of its water resources. The county also supports the development, adoption, and
implementation of water collection, storage, and distribution, as well as the development of
conservation plans by municipalities, the water conservancy district, and private water
companies. The county also encourages continued cooperation among all water managers and
users as water management decisions are made.

       The county needs to be involved with state and federal managers in the development of
any plans for monitoring of air and water quality. Findings must be coordinated with the county.
The county supports management practices that protect vital watersheds.

       The county also supports management policies and practices which allow for the future
expansion and development of water distribution and storage facilities. The future of the county

                                               384
is completely dependent on available water. The county not only needs a county-wide
distribution system to assist any part of the county in time of need, but a redundant supply to
avoid simply running out of water at some future date. Any plan or practice whose is aim or goal
is to thwart the county’s ability to access and develop water resources is strongly opposed.

       Transportation:

        Transportation is critically important to Washington County. The county believes that
proper access to public lands is essential, and is an inherent right of every citizen. It is the
county’s position that no access should be closed except in situations of duplication, danger to
the public, or serious threat to the resource, and then only with input and consultation with the
county. The county further believes that no closure should occur on any of its RS2477 rights-of-
way assertions without express consent of the county commission. The county’s intent is to
complete a county-wide transportation plan as a part of the General Plan of the county and will
make every effort to coordinate such plan with public land managers to reach consensus insofar
as possible.

        The county supports general public access through private lands as historically provided
and allowed. The county will continue to work with individual land owners as necessary to
maintain these traditional thoroughfares while also protecting private rights. It is vitally
important that all existing public rights-of-way, including both RS2477 as well as proscriptive
rights across private lands, be maintained.

       Public Land Consolidation:

       Washington County supports efforts to sell, exchange, or consolidate state and federal
lands within the county if doing so improves manageability of these lands, benefits county
residents, supports the county economic base, or addresses the problem of checkerboard
ownership. Specifically, the county will work to identify and consolidate areas and resources
that promote economic growth, allow additional or improved resource development, protect
watershed, reduce access problems, and/or improve management. The county, through the
county commission, will actively participate in all exchange or consolidation discussions.

       If it will benefit the county economically, the commission may look favorably upon the
exchange of state trust lands to other areas of the state where it might be beneficial both to the
county and to the trust land administration in terms of economic benefit to make such land
exchanges.

        The county supports any increase in private land holdings in the county, and cannot
support any net loss of private land for any purposes. The county believes that it is appropriate
to transfer from federal ownership, through sale or exchange, certain lands to private ownership
if such a transaction will benefit the county’s economic base. If private to public land
transactions occur, the county will work with the public land managers to assure that an
equivalent acreage and value of public lands are made available for transfer to private ownership.


                                               385
       Partnerships:

        It is the county’s policy to partner with public land management agencies in the planning
and management process. The county’s participation and responsibilities will be guaranteed by,
and contingent upon, a formal cooperative agreement. Any formal county cooperative
agreements shall be contingent upon the county’s involvement at the earliest stage of the
proposed process. The county would like to see increased coordination among the county, the
Bureau of Land Management, U.S. Forest Service, Utah Department of Natural Resources, and
other land management agencies. It is the county’s belief that all land use decisions must be
based on sound principles of consensus building, and consideration of local interests. The
county’s objectives in this regard are further discussed in the goals and objectives section of this
plan.

       Local Economic Impact:

        As discussed in the current management condition section of this plan, it is the position of
the county to support only those public land plans and decisions that result in a sustainable net
benefit to the county’s local economy. The county’s cooperative agreement should include
provisions for a quantitative estimate of the economic effects of all proposed management
decisions. These estimates should be generated in consultation with the county. Further, it is the
policy of the county that all decisions regarding land use management must take into account the
history, culture, and customs of the county as defined by the activities and values that residents
of the county, in the past, present, and future, depend upon for well being and subsistence.
Customs and culture are defined as the activities and decisions that make the county what it is
and has historically been, and the county will oppose activities and plans that will adversely
impact the customs and culture of Washington County.

       The county supports efforts to maintain or improve the overall economic base of the
county through the judicious use and enjoyment of federal and state lands in the county. The
county policy is that economic diversity and long-term stability are beneficial to the welfare of
county residents. Any proposed change in land use must evaluate, mitigate, and minimize
impacts to customs and culture and the economic stability of the county. The prioritizing of any
one multiple use should only occur after the impacts to other multiple uses are fully quantified
and mitigated. Any proposal to close the federal lands to a particular use must be approved by
the county after a public hearings, and meetings with county officials.

       Relative Impacts:

        The position of the county is that the weight given to public comment and opinion should
be directly proportional to the geographic and economic impact of the decision. The county
policy is to provide clear and timely comments, and encourage its residents to do the same.

       Consistency:

       It is the preference of the county that the managing agencies coordinate with the county

                                                386
at the earliest possible time on all planning. The county has limited personnel to dedicate to
public land planning. Nevertheless the county will make every effort to participate in such
efforts to achieve consistency in planning documents.

        Wildlife Management:

       Wildlife management issues on public lands have the potential to impact the county in the
most substantial manner. Wildlife management can not only impact public land use and access,
but can also affect land uses, often leading to restrictions and even takings. Recreational factors,
such a hunting and fishing, are a vital part of the county’s economic base.

       Recovery efforts for sensitive, threatened and endangered species must evaluate,
mitigate, and support the county’s customs and culture and economic viability. Wildlife
management efforts shall reduce predation of sensitive species, increase hunting and fishing
opportunities within appropriate carrying capacities, decrease game damage conflicts, and
generally balance wildlife numbers with other factions, representing the customs and culture and
multiple use values of the county. The county supports responsible wildlife habitat preservation,
development, and management.

        The county policy is that federal agencies shall fully quantify and cause mitigation
measures to be adopted that would effectively mitigate impact to the county wildlife populations
in carrying out animal damage management activities. Public land managers shall:

               1.      Allow currently recognized methods of predator control, including aerial
               gunning of predators, as viable options for predator control on public lands in the
               county.

               2.     Conduct non-predator animal damage management such as controlling
               small mammal populations, and necessary environmental analysis and disclosure
               on public lands.

               3.      Coordinate with other federal and state agencies to improve effectiveness
               of control program activities conducted on federal and state lands.

               4.     Use an integrated approach to the prevention of animal damage and
               management of animal damage control programs. Consider a full range of
               methods, including physical barriers, repellents, habitat manipulation, biological
               controls, improvement of soil fertility, pesticides, and hunting and trapping. Use
               licensed hunting, fishing, and trapping as a control technique where practicable.

               5.     Evaluate the effect of agency actions on trends in hunting participation
               and, where appropriate to address declining trends, implement actions that expand
               and enhance hunting opportunities for the public.

               6.      Consider the economy and recreational values of hunting in agency

                                                387
               actions.

               7.    Manage wildlife habitats on public lands in a manner that expands and
               enhances hunting opportunities, including through the use of hunting in wildlife
               management planning, and

               8.      Work collaboratively with state governments to manage and conserve
               game species and their habitats in a manner that respects private property rights
               and state management authority over wildlife resources.

       Recreation:

        Activities which traditionally define recreation and tourism in Washington County
include, but are not limited to big game hunting, trapping, fishing, off-road vehicle use, mountain
biking, hiking, camping, boating, etc. A majority of these activities are found on public lands.
Visitors to these areas directly impact the county be drawing on county-provided infrastructure
such as, law enforcement, emergency-medical, search and rescue, waste disposal services, and
general commercial services. Many of the store owners, restaurants, hotels and motels, and
many more interests depend on seasonal recreation and tourism for their livelihoods. Much of
the recreational activity in the county is found in the unincorporated area of the county, outside
of the organized recreation facilities found in many of the cities and towns. This recreation,
mostly found through using the public lands, is a tremendous economic asset to the county.

       It is the county’s position that federal and state land managers should do everything
possible to enhance recreational opportunities on public lands and that such management should
be compatible with the principles of multiple use, and sustained yield. Any management
decisions which restrict recreational activities or access to recreation area must be done in
consultation with the county and must be based on best scientific information.

       Customs and Culture:

       To reiterate concerns in the current management conditions section, the residents of the
county highly value the quality of life the customs and culture of the county provide. Many
residents have traditionally earned their livelihoods from activities associated with the county’s
customs and culture.

        While the economy of the county is not as dependent on the legacy activities of
agriculture as it once was, many residents continue to rely on these or similar activities either as
a primary or a secondary income resource. The livestock industry has suffered significantly by
the reduction of grazing permits over the last number of years.

        County residents greatly prize the outdoor recreation opportunities detailed in the
previous section. These activities are a way of life in the county, having sprung up from a
traditional western lifestyle heavily dependent on the land as a natural resource to provide
sustenance and enjoyment. At its core, the county is a place where it residents enjoy a rural

                                                388
environment and closeness to nature. These activities have been kept alive and grown as they
are passed from generation to generation. Parents, children, and grandchildren enjoy the
outdoors together as a family unit. Access to public lands in the county for multiple uses is a
prized privilege, even a right inherent in residency that is the foundation of a lifestyle style that
has kept families here for generations. In recent years, and into the future, it is the main
attraction for new residents seeking a rural, family centered way of life.

        The county’s quality of life and economy is, and will continue to be, dependent upon
these activities. Since the county is directly dependent upon all its natural resources,
management decisions affecting public land directly impacts and potentially changes the
county’s customs and culture. Therefore, a critical tie exists between the use of private, federal,
and state natural resources and the continuance of the way of life in Washington County. It is
imperative that the county, stakeholders, and informed representatives review natural resource
issues as they occur, to assure public land management decisions do not negatively impact the
county’s customs and culture.

        The county must oppose any change in land use that does not evaluate, mitigate, and
minimize impacts to customs and culture and the economic future of the county. Federal and
state agencies should always consider the social, cultural, and economic needs of the county
when developing plans and making recommendations that affect the customs and culture of the
county. The county recommends federal and state agencies enhance opportunities for
responsible use of public lands which benefit the customs and culture and economic base of the
county. Federal and state agencies should always notify the county of any actions or regulations
which may impact the customs and culture of the county.

       Vegetation:

       The county supports efforts to conduct plant surveys to validate existing data and add
new plant inventory data. Recovery planning efforts for sensitive, threatened, and endangered
plant species shall evaluate, mitigate, and support the county’s customs and culture and
economic viability. The county supports locally driven efforts to identify desired plant
communities that do not compromise the customs and culture and economy of the county.

       Visual:

        Washington County recognizes that different levels of scenic values on federal lands in
the county require different levels of management. While management of an area with high
scenic value might be focused on preserving the existing character of the landscape, management
of an area with little scenic value might allow for major modifications to the landscape. Federal
land management agencies shall conduct assessments of visual impacts in determining how an
area should be managed, with the goal of protecting the visual resource while not burdening
authorized land uses and maintaining economic stability.

        It is Washington County’s policy in considering visual resource management objectives,
federal and state land management agencies shall recognize the importance of communication

                                                389
sites, electric transmission lines, and transportation corridors to the security, health and welfare
of the county’s residents.

       Weeds and Pests:

         Federal and state land management agencies shall participate in cooperative efforts with
federal, state, county and private land managers to enhance cooperative weed management in the
county. Early detection and control of noxious weed and insect infestations are essential to the
public health, welfare and economy of the citizens of the county. Neither the county, nor the
public land managers can be successful in controlling noxious weeds without joint cooperation.
It is also important to the county that the public land managers control pests on the public lands
in order to protect the forest land and other areas where pests become a problem.

       Mosquito control on federal and state lands in the county should be permitted in order to
reduce the risk of transmission of West Nile Virus and other diseases that pose a threat to the
health of humans, livestock and wildlife. The county has an active mosquito control program,
which should be extended, as necessary to include public lands.

       Wild Land Fire:

       Fire management strategies shall consider fire fighter and public safety and protect
human life, property and communities. There shall be a high level of cooperation between
agencies and fire fighter organizations in the county. Federal agencies will incorporate local fire
department plans and policies into fire suppression and control plans.

       Forestry:

        The private use of timber products from federal and state lands in the county for posts,
poles, wood cutting to provide fuel for those in the county needing fuel for winter heating, and
Christmas trees, etc., shall be continued as an allowable use. A sustainable wood products
industry on federal and state lands in the county is an important aspect of economic diversity.
Fire, timber harvesting, and treatment programs are to be managed in a way to promote the forest
health, reduce disease and insect infestation, and prevent waste of forest products while
providing opportunities for local residents or small business.

       Decisions and conclusions for forestry management should be consistent with the
following:

               1.      Avoid management scenarios that result in a static forest condition

               2.     Do not restrict management actions to a particular size or age of wood
               material

               3.     Concentrate activities on current condition as compared with desired
               condition

                                                390
              4.     Develop an aggressive time table for management implementation

              5.     Use a systematic diagnostic approach to anticipate forest health programs.

              6.     Work with and not against nature

              7.     Accurately account for forest health costs and use a long term risk analysis

              8.     Prepare the forest for inevitable periods of drought and encourage research
                     into climate/forest health relationship and aforementioned forest
                     management scenarios.

       Lands and Realty:

       Federal land management agencies need to continue to make suitable lands available for
disposal under the Recreation and Public Purposes Act (R&PP), Special Uses Act, and follow the
requirements of the land use plan approved by Congress for the disposal of certain BLM lands in
the county. Some additional criteria for land disposal shall include the following:

              1.     Federal lands shall be available for disposal when such disposal meets the
              important public objective of community expansion or economic development, or
              when the disposal would serve the public interest.

              2.     The design and disposal of all federal land disposals, including land
              adjustments and exchanges, shall be carried out to the benefit of the citizens of the
              county in an expeditious manner.

              3.     There shall be no net loss of private lands in the county. Federal land
              management agencies shall not acquire any private land or access rights in private
              lands in the county without first ensuring that, at a minimum, parity in land
              ownership is maintained, and private property interests are protected and
              enhanced.

              4.      Federally managed lands that are difficult to manage or which lie in
              isolated tracts shall be identified for disposal, where otherwise found suitable for
              non-federal use and development.

              5.      The county shall be notified of, consulted with, and otherwise involved in
              all federal and state land adjustments in the county. County concurrence shall be
              required prior to such adjustments.

              6.      All existing utility corridors must be maintained and used to support
              additional capability for electric transmission and flow of oil and gas throughout
              the state and region. Ne Corridors may need to be designated in areas where

                                               391
               renewable energy projects or communications technology developments come on
               line. Such corridors are critical in supporting state and national security and
               economic objectives.

       Law Enforcement:

       Washington County and the State of Utah have primary jurisdiction for law enforcement
throughout the county. All federal law enforcement activities will be fully coordinated through
the county with the county sheriff’s office.

        The county will maximize the use of a cooperative law enforcement program, to improve
protection of persons and their property when visiting federal and state lands, and to utilize the
opportunity to cooperate with land management agencies in carrying out their specific
responsibilities related to the land management.

       It is the county policy to provide protection to the public and their property through
cooperation with other law enforcement agencies. Federal and state land management agencies
will make available sites for strategic location of communication towers to aid in law
enforcement activities.

       Livestock Grazing:

        Livestock grazing on federal and state lands in the county shall continue, at levels
consistent with the custom and culture, and proper stewardship of the resource. The continued
viability of livestock operations within the county by management of land and forage resources,
by proper optimization of animal unit months for livestock in forage resources, in accordance
with supportable science and the multiple use provisions of federal and state law.

        Federal land management agencies will not adjust animal unit months (AUMs) on public
lands, without scientifically based justification and full consultation between the permittee and
the administering agency. Federal management agencies will not permit the relinquishment,
transfer, or retirement of livestock grazing AUMs in favor of conservation, wildlife, or other uses
besides livestock grazing.

        Federal and state land managers will promote public respect for private structures,
corrals, fences, water development, etc., on federal land in an effort to reduce vandalism, educate
land users, and promote multiple-use concepts.

        AUMs should not be placed in a suspended use category unless there is a rational and
scientific termination that the condition of the rangeland allotment or district in question will not
sustain the animal unit months proposed to be placed in suspended use. Any grazing AUMs that
are place in a suspended use category must be returned to active use when range conditions
improve. State-of-the-art monitoring data should be the basis for grazing management decisions
on BLM and forest service grazing allotments.


                                                392
       Grazing of livestock is mandated by the county land bill to continue in approved
wilderness areas.

       Minerals:

        Mineral development has been limited in Washington County. The Goldstrike mine was
a large-scale gold mining operation. The Apex mine is an ongoing operation relative to scarce
minerals, gallium and germanium, and the only mine in the world with enough ore to mine
economically. The county is convinced that our mineral resources have never been adequately
explored. How many more gold strike or apex mines could there be in Washington County In
addition, sand and gravel resources are becoming very difficult to obtain in the county. As part
of any planning effort on the public land, a county-wide review of all potential sand and/or
gravel sites should be identified in order to be able to project the ability of the county to secure
these sites for use in the future growth and development. Sand and gravel may well be the most
important mineral to be identified in the county for the use of future generations of potential
users.

       Federal and state agencies shall analyze and consider all fiscal and economic impacts to
the minerals industry, the county, and other local governments, and to the residents of the county
from any proposed land management changes or natural-resource related plans. Planning shall
consider up-to-date mineral potential reports.

       Consultation, Coordination, and Cooperation:

       It is the policy of Washington County that federal and state land management agencies:

               1.    Establish effective       government-to-government        relationships    with
               Washington County

               2.     Identify a county relations liaison to serve as the first point of contact with
               the county commission and also the person who will generally initiate agency
               contact with the county.

               3.      Implement federal land management programs and activities consistent
               with, and respecting the county’s rights and fulfilling the federal government’s
               legally mandated coordination responsibility with the county.

               4.      Manage federal lands and resources in coordination with the county

               5.      Work to reduce or remove legal or administrative program impediments
               that inhibit the agency’s and the county’s capacity to work directly and effectively
               with each other.

               6.      Consult with the county on matters that may affect the public’s rights and
               interests.

                                                393
7.      Promptly notify the county at the earliest opportunity of proposed policy,
plans, projects or actions that may affect the public’s rights or interests in order to
provide the county an opportunity for meaningful dialogue on potential
implications and effects.

8.     Develop, in consultation and collaboration with the county, agreements
and statements of relationships that help clarify the county’s rights and interests,
and set forth procedures and protocols for consultation, including the points of
contact. Involve designated county representatives, including staff, in the
development of proposed policies, plans, projects, or actions, where appropriate.

9.     Involve the county early in the planning process, and in the preparation of
in-depth socio-economic information.

10.    Fully consider recommendations by the county to address county concerns
on proposed decisions.

11.     Inform the county as to how its information and recommendations were
considered in public land management decisions, including explanations
particularly in the event that county input was not adopted or incorporated.

12.     Document the process and actions taken to consult with the county, the
results of those actions, and how the public land manager’s final decision was
communicated to the county. This consultation review and monitoring process
shall involve the county officials and representatives.

13.     Conduct annual planning meetings for specific projects that include
participation by livestock permittees, affected adjacent land owners, and other
multiple use interests in affected areas, as well as county representatives.




                                 394
                                     Section Seven:
                               County Goals and Objectives
       Coordination:

        Goal:
        Develop close coordination with the State and Public Land Managers involved in
developing plans within Washington County, specifically as it relates to the implementation of
the land use plan recently approved by the Congress of the United States of America.

       To create a cooperative agency status with federal and state planning agencies involved
in planning the public land in Washington County for the purpose of jointly completing the
planning that is required under the Congressional land use plan in Washington County.

        Objective:
        Work in harmony with the federal, state, and any other public land managers that may be
involved with the planning made necessary by the Congressional land use plan so that the county
plan, and the public land plans, mirror each other to promote a united land plan to the public for
the future of the county.

       Economic Preservation and Development:

       Goals:
       Preserve and develop the county’s customs and cultures.

       Expand the county’s current economic base.

       Stop or reverse any erosion of the county’s economic base due to increased restrictions
and limitations on the use of public lands in Washington County.

        Objectives:
        Promote solid growth of historical economic pursuits in the county, especially those
associated with recreation, hunting, fishing, ranching, farming, timbering, mining, and other
recreational activities on public and private lands.

       Work with federal and state regulatory agencies to reduce costs in both time and material
in complying with regulations and permitting processes, including recreational permitting.

       Agricultural Lands:

        Goals
        Protect and preserve agriculturally productive land, both public and private, for continued
agricultural purposes.

       Objectives:
                                                395
         Take a proactive role in sustaining or expansion of agricultural uses on public and private
lands.

         Encourage, and promote the continuation of irrigated land use.

         Natural Resources:

       Goals
       Facilitate prudent development, use, and conservation of natural and renewable
resources, in such a way as to ensure their continued availability for future generations.

       Objectives:
       Facilitate development of natural resources such as coal, oil, natural gas, and other
minerals using common sense and good stewardship.

        Provide a proactive approach to land use policy and implementation decisions at the local
level in order to create sustainable yields of our natural resources.

        Work with federal and state managers to expedite the permitting process, allowing
potential developers more streamlined access to available resources.

         Scenic Areas and Historic Sites:

         Goal:
         Preserve, protect, enhance, and make available for public visitation, scenic areas, historic
sites, and cultural sites in Washington County.

       Objectives:
       Identify and delineate areas which a majority of county residents believe have
outstanding qualities, and which add significantly to Washington County’s culture and customs,
and which may have value in the county’s tourism industry and in enhancing capacity for
economic development.

       Identify, preserve, restore, and protect, significant natural and man-made cultural sites,
buildings, and locations.

        Make these sites, particularly those that a part of the customs and culture of the county,
available for visitation and enjoyment by all residents of the county.
        Work these historic, scenic, and cultural sites into tourism and economic development
efforts in order to better utilize the intrinsic value of these resources to the benefit of county
residents as well as visitors to the area.

         Wildlife:

         Goals:

                                                 396
        Ensure the proper management of water resources and responsible management of public
lands in order to sustain viable populations of wildlife.

       Wildlife is an important recreational resource in Washington County, and must be
managed in such a way as to benefit the public as well as enhancing wildlife habitat and
preserving proper wildlife populations.

       Objectives:
       Provide incentives to landowners providing critical wildlife winter habitat.

        All planning and zoning, as well as any future development, shall take into consideration
wildlife, especially critical winter range. All proposed subdivision plats shall be evaluated for
their effect on wildlife and on neighboring agricultural and other adjacent uses.

        Federal and state agencies will hold wildlife and feral populations to objective levels that
will not damage agriculture.

        Managers should work to assure that objective wildlife levels benefit the local economy
as well as fitting the overall principles of multiple-use.

       Recreation:

       Goal:
       Support and create quality recreational opportunities for county residents and visitors.

      Provide an opportunity to benefit more fully from the unique rural characteristics of
Washington County’s communities, their customs and culture.

       Create an opportunity to more appropriately benefit from the many recreational
opportunities in the county’s public lands.

       Objectives:
       Upgrade or expand picnic and camping facilities.

       Improve access to public lands and recreation sites with no net loss of access as
recognized in federal stature 2477 revised.

       Encourage development of increased opportunities for year round recreation.

       Develop inter-connecting roads and trails wherever possible, to allow recreational users
to connect with major OHV trails. Create a county-wide travel plan which addresses all roads
and trail systems essential to the county’s recreation plan, and identifying areas where
improvements need to be made or connections need to be created.



                                                397
       Renewable Energy:

       Goals:
       Due to the great need for alternative energy sources, and due to the large areas of public
lands within the county, every effort should be used to identify and develop renewable energy
resources.

       Objectives:
       Develop an alternative energy resource development plan, identifying all lands within the
county which may be suitable for solar, wind, or geothermal energy development.

      Through the normal planning and zoning process, zone appropriately identified lands for
renewable energy production.

       Identify electric transmission corridors and transportation needs for appropriate access to
lands which may be suitable for alternative energy development.

       Where possible, provide incentives for alternative energy development within the county.




                                               398
                                       Section Eight
                                        Monitoring
        Progress toward the Desired Resource Management Setting will be measured by working
towards, and ultimately achieving, the Goals and Objectives as set forth in this County Resource
Management plan. Regular progress reports will be made to the county commission by the land
use authority and staff, regarding progress toward the desired management setting and toward
accomplishment of the goals and objectives. Recommendations may be made to the plan from
time to time by the land use authority to the county commission.

       Partnerships:

       Progress regarding planning and development changes on the state and public lands will
be made by continued close relationships with public land managers in a cooperative effort with
the county.

       Local Economic Impact:

        Of concern are economic changes which could affect the economic well-being of county
residents. Much of the county employment is linked to the use of public lands, any policy
changes or management decisions which may impact the county’s customs and culture, or affect
its overall economic well-being, must be addressed as soon as the county becomes aware of these
changes.


Public Involvement:

        The county should keep the public informed as much as possible, in understanding public
land policy. The county should take into account feedback from the public in evaluating public
land issues and in determining the county’s policy and position. The recent Vision Dixie project
was an excellent example of the use of public involvement now being used in this planning
effort. The decisions and recommendations of the public participation of this plan looked at all
public land issues, preservation issues, and questions as to where development should or should
not occur. A more detailed look at the BLM land designations was done by the broad coalition
of stake holders involved in the preparation of the land use plan that was submitted to Congress
for their approval.




\Documents and Settings\SharedDocs(S:)\Planning recovery_001\General Plan\ADOPTED
VERSION.doc

                                              399
