                                           CHAPTER 27
                                        OVERLAY ZONES
SECTION:
10-27-1: PURPOSE
The purpose of an overlay zone is to apply certain additional requirements that are superimposed upon a
base zoning district. In the instance of conflicting requirements, the stricter of the conflicting
requirement shall apply.

Article A- Pine Valley Overlay Zone
10-27A-1: Purpose:
To guide future development in a way that maintains the rural, historical and mountain village
characteristics of Pine Valley and to preserve its open meadows, agricultural lands, and scenic vistas.
10-27A-2 Area Defined: The regulations for the Pine Valley Overlay Zoning (PVOV) shall apply to
the bounded area depicted on the official Washington County General Plan and Zoning maps for Pine
Valley.




10-27A-3 Zoning Districts within the PVOZ

                                                                                                          1
The following zoning districts are existing underlying districts for the Pine Valley
Overlay Zone. The C-2 Highway Commercial Zone (C-2) and C-3 General Commercial
Zone (C-3) are limited to the existing zoned parcels, and will not be allowed for future
zone changes. Any newly proposed commercial parcels, if rezoned, shall be
Neighborhood Commercial. Manufacturing and Industrial zoning and uses are prohibited.
Commercial campgrounds and commercial recreation including but not limited to lodges
and dude ranches, fractionalized ownership, and Planned Developments for Short Term
Rentals (STR) uses are prohibited in all zoning districts. Agricultural Tourism is only
allowed in the RA Districts on lots that are 10 acres or greater. Other zoning districts
allowed in Washington County may be considered through the zoning amendment
process established in the Washington County Code, by seeking an amendment to the
PVOZ, so long as the proposed zoning meets the minimum lot size requirements and
intent of this overlay zone.
A-5– Agricultural 5 acre minimum- The purpose of this zone is to preserve appropriate
areas for permanent agricultural uses. Permitted and Conditional uses for this district are
found in Sections 10-7-2 and 10-7-3.
A-20- Agricultural 20 acre minimum- The purpose of this zone is to preserve appropriate
areas for permanent agricultural uses. Permitted and Conditional uses for this district are
found in Title 10-7-2 and 10-7-3 of this Code.
C-2- Highway Commercial Zone- Commercially zoned property currently existing and
located within the Pine Valley Overlay Zone shall be oriented toward the community
needs and for essential services to its residents, and for their health and safety. All future
commercial uses shall be community focused. Tourist uses shall be ancillary to the
community, neighborhood commercial uses.
The scale and design of the commercial uses shall be in harmony with the surrounding
uses. Permitted uses for this district are found in Title 10-10-2. Prohibited commercial
uses within the Pine Valley Overlay Zone include the following:
           •   Athletic Clubs
           •   Automobile, new or used sales and service
           •   Automobile rental
           •   Automobile repair including paint, body, fender, brake, muffler,
               upholstery, or transmission (completely enclosed building)
           •   Bank or Financial Institution
           •   Boat Sales and Service
           •   Car wash
           •   Convenience Markets in conjunction with gas stations, or stand alone,
               with the exception of a Country Store defined by this overlay code, which
               is permitted.

                                                                                          2
          • Gas station
          • Laundry or dry cleaners, laundromat
          • Liquor Store
          • Manufactured home sales lot and service
          • Mortuary
          • Pharmacy
          • Recreational vehicle parks
          • Shuttle Service
          • Theatre
          • Tire sales and service
          • Trailer sales and service
          • Truck terminal
To maintain the rural nature of the Pine Valley community, additional commercially
zoned property and uses is strongly discouraged.
C-3- General Commercial Zone - Commercially zoned property currently existing and
located within the Pine Valley Overlay Zone shall be oriented toward local community
needs, for essential services to its residents, and for their health and safety, All future
commercial uses shall be community focused. Tourist uses shall be ancillary to the
community, Neighborhood Commercial uses.
 The scale and design of the commercial uses shall be in harmony with the surrounding
uses. To maintain the rural nature of the Pine Valley community, additional commercially
zoned property and uses is strongly discouraged. Permitted uses for this district are found
in Title 10-10-2. Prohibited Commercial uses within the Pine Valley Overlay Zone
include the following:
           •   Athletic Clubs
           •   Automobile, new or used sales and service
           •   Automobile rental
           •   Automobile repair including paint, body, fender, brake, muffler,
               upholstery, or transmission (completely enclosed building)
           •   Bank or Financial Institution
           •   Boat Sales and Service
           •   Building Materials Sales
           •   Car wash
           •   Coal and Fuel Sales
           •   Convenience Markets in conjunction with gas stations, or stand alone,
               with the exception of a Country Store defined by this overlay code, which
               is permitted Department Store
           •   Employment Agency
           •   Gas station
                                                                                          3
           •   Grocery Store
           •   Health Club
           •   Laboratory, Dental or Medical
           •   Laundry
           •   Liquor Store
           •   Lumberyard
           •   Manufactured home sales lot and service
           •   Mortuary
           •   Pawn Shop
           •   Pharmacy
           •   Recreational vehicle parks
           •   Rental Agency for Home and Garden Equipment
           •   Shuttle Service
           •   Sign Sales
           •   Storage rental units
           •   Theatre
           •   Tire recapping or retreading
           •   Tire sales and service
           •   Trailer sales and service
           •   Truck terminal


To maintain the rural nature of the Pine Valley community, any additional commercially
zoned property and uses, including Neighborhood Commercial is strongly discouraged.
FR-13.5- Forest Residential Zone 13,500 square foot minimum- The purpose of this zone
is to permit the necessary development of identified mountain areas for non-commercial
recreation, seasonal residential living, and other activities to the extent compatible with
the protection of the natural and scenic resources of the areas for the benefit of present
and future generations. (Ord. 2018-1120-O, 8-21-2018) Permitted and Conditional uses
for this district are found in Title 10-8A-2 and 10-8A-3 of this Code.
FR-1 Forest Residential Zone 1 acre minimum- The purpose of this zone is to permit the
necessary development of identified mountain areas for non-commercial recreation,
seasonal residential living, and other activities to the extent compatible with the
protection of the natural and scenic resources of the areas for the benefit of present and
future generations. (Ord. 2018-1120-O, 8-21-2018) Permitted and Conditional uses for
this district are found in Title 10-8A-2 and 10-8A-3 of this Code.
FR-5 Forest Residential Zone 5 acre minimum- The purpose of this zone is to permit the
necessary development of identified mountain areas for non-commercial recreation,
seasonal residential living, and other activities to the extent compatible with the

                                                                                       4
            protection of the natural and scenic resources of the areas for the benefit of present and
            future generations. (Ord. 2018-1120-O, 8-21-2018) Permitted and Conditional uses for
            this district are found in Title 10-8A-2 and 10-8A-3 of this Code.
            OSC-20 Open Space Conservation Zone- The purpose of this zone is to permit the use of
            open space land within the county for uses compatible with the protection of the natural
            and scenic resources of the county for the benefit of present and future generations. (Ord.
            2001-815-O, 12-17-2001, eff. 12-17-2001; and. 2004 Code) This zoning designation with
            the Pine Valley Overlay is to allow for the preservation of the Pine Valley Meadows. No
            development is allowed within this zoning district. Permitted uses for this district are
            found in Title 10-6A-2. The Conditional Uses described in 10-6A-3 are not permitted in
            the Pine Valley Overlay Zone.
            OST-20 Opens Space Transition Zone 20 acre minimum- The purpose of this zone is to
            provide for the protection of primarily undeveloped private land. Permitted and
            Conditional uses for this district are found in Title 10-6B-2. The Conditional Uses
            described in 10-6B-3 are not permitted in the Pine Valley Overlay Zone.
            RA-1 Residential Agricultural Zone 1 acre minimum- The purpose of this zone is to
            provide permanent areas for small farms, hobby farms and small agricultural
            developments. (Ord. 2018-1120-O, 8-21-2018) Permitted and Conditional uses for this
            district are found in Title 10-8C-2 and 10-8C-3 of this Code.
            RA-2.5 Residential Agricultural Zone 2.5 acre minimum- The purpose of this zone is to
            provide permanent areas for small farms, hobby farms and small agricultural
            developments. (Ord. 2018-1120-O, 8-21-2018) Permitted and Conditional uses for this
            district are found in Title 10-8C-2 and 10-8C-3 of this Code.
            RA-5 Residential Agricultural Zone 5 acre minimum- The purpose of this zone is to
            provide permanent areas for small farms, hobby farms and small agricultural
            developments. (Ord. 2018-1120-O, 8-21-2018) Permitted and Conditional uses for this
            district are found in Title 10-8C-2 and 10-8C-3 of this Code.
            RE-20- Residential Estate Zone 20,0000 square foot minimum- The purpose of this zone
            is to provide permanent area for small farms, hobby farms and limited agricultural
            development for personal use. (Ord. 2018-1120-O, 8-21-2018.
            RE-40- Residential Estate Zone 40,000 square foot minimum- The purpose of this zone is
            to provide permanent area for small farms, hobby farms and limited agricultural
            development for personal use. (Ord. 2018-1120-O, 8-21-2018.
10-27A-4 General Standards and Requirements

      a. Neighborhood Commercial Standards


                                                                                                     5
      Neighborhood Commercial is a zoning designation unique to Pine Valley, and regulates
      all commercial development within the Pine Valley Overlay Zone. All commercial
      zoning shall be Neighborhood Commercial, rural or historical in character and shall be in
      harmony with the surrounding development. Neighborhood Commercial development
      should be oriented to the community and the needs of the community. It shall provide
      areas where low impact commercial and service uses can be harmoniously integrated
      with rural and residential uses at a village scale. It shall have a lesser impact than
      normally associated with commercial development, and shall be lower in density to
      preserve a feeling of open space and preservation of public views compatible with the
      area’s natural and scenic beauty. Buildings shall be limited to a maximum size of 5,000
      square feet and must be single story. The creation of additional commercially zoned
      property is strongly discouraged. Any zoning amendment to change the zoning to a
      Neighborhood Commercial zoning or use will require a community meeting noticed per
      section 10-2-3 of the Washington County Code prior to the application submittal to
      Washington County and be required to be Neighborhood Commercial with a minimum
      lot size of one (1) acre. Zoning requests to Neighborhood Commercial will need to meet
      the following standards:
                         •   It meets a fundamental need of the community
                         •   It provides an essential service for the community
                         •   It promotes safety for the residents, including among other things,
                             the lessening of congestion in the streets and roads, securing safety
                             from fire and other dangers
                         •   Single story in height
      All future commercial uses shall be community focused. Tourist uses shall be ancillary to
      the community, Neighborhood Commercial uses.
             Neighborhood Commercial Uses are as follows:
                         •   Country Store
                         •   Financial Services
                         •   Medical, or professional office
                         •   Office, professional
                         •   Personal Care Service
                         •   Personal Instruction
                         •   Religious facility
                         •   Restaurant, rural or historic architectural style
b. Residential Standards
      In order to preserve the rural nature and feel of Pine Valley, any new subdivided lots
      created for development shall be a minimum of 1 acre in size. To maintain the rural

                                                                                               6
           nature and feel of Pine Valley and to provide for appropriately sized homes on lots, lot
           coverage standards are included in this overlay zone.
           The combined square footage of all detached accessory structures, with the exception of
           barns, shall not exceed 15% of the total lot area if the structure is entirely within the
           setbacks for the principal structure, or 10% of the total lot area if the structure is located
           elsewhere on the lot. Barns except in Agriculture districts, may have a lot coverage up to
           25% so long the use is incidental to the primary residential use. In Agriculture district’s
           where agricultural uses are operating, barns are permitted without a primary residential
           use.
                Fractional home ownership is not permitted within the Pine Valley Overlay Zone.

Existing     Acres       Front   Side    Rear    Lot Building  Lot    Accessory
District                Setback Setback Setback Width Height Coverage Structure
                                                                         Lot
                                                                      Coverage

A-5         5          25         25         25         300     35          50%          15%/10%

A-20        20         25         25         25         400     35          50%          15%/10%

C-2         None       25         10         10         None    35          50%          15%/10%

C-3         None       25          10        10         None    35          50%          15%/10%

FR-13.5                25          10        10         80      35          50%          15%/10%
            13,500
            sf

FR-1        1          25         10         10         140     35          50%          15%/10%

FR-5        5          25         25         25         300     35          50%          15%/10%

OSC-20      20         25         25         25         400     35          50%          15%/10%


OST-20      20         25         25         25         400     35          50%          15%/10%


RA-1        1          25          10        10         140     35          50%          15%/10%

RA-2.5      2.5        25         25         25         250     35          50%          15%/10%



                                                                                                      7
RA-5      5          25         25       25       300       35        50%         15%/10%

RE-20     20,000     25         10       10       80        35        50%         15%/10%
          sq.

RE-40     40,000     25         10       10       100       35        50%         15%/10%
          sq.


 New residential developments shall have a minimum lot size of one acre. Parcels five (5) acres
 or more may receive approval of a Planned Development Residential (PDR) allowing 1/4 acre
 lots or larger to be clustered together with 75% of the lot remaining as open space, or 1/2 acre
 lots or larger if the open space land is not contiguous.

                                     PDR Cluster Requirements

                   Acres    Maximum number of          Required open space in acres
                                ¼ acre lots
              5            4                        4
              10           8                        8
              15           12                       12
              20           16                       16




        1. Buildings:
        Recommended and mandatory building standards are found in the table below:


                                                                                               8
Mandatory    Recommended                           Standard

                   X       Buildings shall be designed to follow natural contours
                           rather than modifying the land to accept a building
                           design not tailored to the site

   X                       Slopes that are greater than thirty percent (30% shall
                           require building designs where all corners of the
                           building on the ground surface). Hillside Development
                           Standards in the code also apply.
                   X       The massing or grouping of buildings shall be scaled to
                           harmonize and achieve balance with the natural features
                           of the specific site.

                   X       Roof lines and building mass shall echo the angles and
                           shapes repeated in the natural landscape. Flat roofs are
                           strongly discouraged due to snow loads.

                   X       Building mass and wall lines shall be broken up to
                           complement natural settings and slopes.
                   X       The use of building materials in colors that blend
                           harmoniously with the surrounding natural settings is
                           recommended. Brash, contrasting color combinations
                           are strongly discouraged.

   X                       Flammable wood roofing shingles are prohibited.



   2. Mobile and Manufactured Housing
       Mobile Homes are not permitted within the Pine Valley Overlay Zone. Manufactured
       housing is discouraged in order to preserve the rural character of Pine Valley.
       Manufactured housing may be allowed with the following standards:



            Mandatory Recommended                             Standard

               X                      Built to HUD Standards



                                                                                      9
                       X       Be manufactured within the five years immediately
                               preceding the date which it is affixed to the residential
                               lot.

                      X        Shall be new construction and not a home relocated
                               from another property.

                      X        Consist of more than one section

                       X       Include at least 1,400 square feet of living area.

                       X       Consist of at least five sides or corners with the
                               smallest side or corner measuring a minimum of five
                               feet; and

                       X       Have a minimum width and depth of 20 feet.

                       X       The exterior finish shall be architecturally integrated
                               with the homes in the immediate vicinity, including
                               roofing and building design.

                               Attached to a permanent foundation, and any elevated
                               foundation must be masked with the same exterior
         X                     finished used on the home or decorative masonry. All
                               masking must be extended to within six inches of
                               grade.


                      X        Roofing material shall be asphalt shingles, tile, or
                               metal roofing panels.

                       X       Roofing material must be different in color and
                               material than that of the exterior finish of the house to
                               create contrast.

         X                     Flammable wood roofing shingles are prohibited.

         X                     Roofs shall maintain a minimum pitch of 3:12.


3. Accessory Dwelling Units:


                                                                                      10
      Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU) are allowed within the Pine Valley Overlay Zone
      under Section 10-13-18: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU). Setbacks for ADUs
      will correspond with the underlying zoning district, in which the ADU is located and be
      compliant with Title 10 Chapter 8.
      4. Short term rentals:
      Short-Term Rentals (STR) are allowed when compliant with Section 10-13-23, with the
      exception of any Planned Development STR zoning. Short-Term Rental housing will be
      limited to a maximum of 5% of the existing housing supply. If the home is not owner
      occupied, then a Property Manager must live within one hour of Pine Valley to be able to
      promptly resolve matters that may arise.
      Those with existing licenses when the Overlay Zone goes into effect, will be included in
      the ratio number. Any applicants, who are compliant with Section 10-13-23, and granted
      a license by the County, will be included until the ratio for the licenses is met. Any
      subsequent applicants will go on a wait list in order of the date of receipt. Licenses can
      also be revoked by the County for non-compliance. When a license becomes available,
      the first applicant on the waiting list shall be notified of the license availability, and the
      applicant shall have 60 days from the date to complete the licensing process, if eligible.
      If they fail to obtain a license within that timeframe, the application shall be deemed
      rejected, and the next applicant will be notified of the license availability, and the same
      procedure shall apply. PVLAC will review number of homes each year and provide an
      updated ratio number to the Community Development Office by January 31 of each year.

      5. Home Occupations:
      Home Occupations are allowed within the Pine Valley Overlay Zone pursuant to Section
      10-4-1: TERMS DEFINED: HOME OCCUPATION.

c- General Standards
      1-Streets
             a. Rural Street Section
                     In order to preserve the rural character of Pine Valley, as defined with the
                     community general plan maps, street improvements shall be exempt from
                     curb, gutter, and sidewalks requirements pursuant to Washington County
                     Municipal Code Section 11-5-3(C)(2)(a).


             b. All-Terrain Vehicles (ATVs)/ Off Highway Vehicles (OHV)
                     All-Terrain Vehicles (ATVs)/ Off Highway Vehicles (OHV) are permitted
                     within the Pine Valley Overlay Zone pursuant to Washington County
                     Municipal Code Section 6-1-3: OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLES
                                                                                                11
       c. Speed limits
              To improve air quality and minimize dust, recommended speed limits for
              all vehicles within the Pine Valley Overlay Zone on all unpaved roads be
              limited to 15mph, unless otherwise posted.
2-Trees/Landscaping/Fencing
       a. Fencing
       All perimeter fencing, including the front yard, within the Pine Valley Overlay
       Zone, of a parcel or lot, as well as along roadways, shall be non-sight obscuring
       fencing and have a maximum height of six (6) feet. Fencing on corner lots shall
       comply with the Washington County Municipal Code section 10-15-3: CORNER
       LOT REQUIREMENTS. Sight obscuring fencing is allowed within building
       setbacks and yard for privacy, but may not be used along the perimeter of the
       parcel.
       b-Landscaping
       In order to preserve the rural nature of Pine Valley, it is recommended that
       landscaping incorporates local Utah native plants. Due to the proximity of the
       Dixie National Forest, plants listed from their website
       https://www.fs.usda.gov/main/dixie/learning/ plant database are encouraged.
       Borrow ditches are to be maintained with natural materials and remain open.
       It is encouraged to create a defensible space around residential buildings by
       keeping twigs, leaves, shrubs, dead grasses and brush away from the perimeter of
       the structures.
       Washington County Community Fire Planning recognizes that many communities
       are at-risk for wildland fires and provides the following link to reduce the risk
       around your home. https://www.nfpa.org/Public-Education/Fire-causes-and-
       risks/Wildfire/Firewise-USA.
3- Signs
       Signs should be in harmony with the rural character of Pine Valley and are subject
       to Section 10-19 SIGNS, unless otherwise stated in this Overlay Zone.
       Commercial signs are only permitted on parcels that the commercial use is
       located. Off premise signs are prohibited. Pole signs are not permitted within the
       Pine Valley Overlay Zone. One monument or low-profile sign per commercial lot
       is allowed with the following standards:
              a. Shall be limited to a maximum of six feet (6') in height from finished
              grade.
                                                                                        12
               b. Shall be limited to thirty-two (32) square feet in area.
                c. Shall be limited to only one sign per business constructed in lieu of,
               and not in addition to, any freestanding sign.
                d. Shall contain no animation or lighting except for one spotlight
               directed at the face of the sign, and not into the air or into the face of
               oncoming traffic or onto adjacent property. A double face sign may be
               lighted in this manner from both sides or from indirect lighting located
               inside the sign in lieu of spotlights.
                 e. Shall contain no animation, video, reader boards, sound, odor,
               flashing message lighting, or components of any kind that move, shimmer,
               reflect or are electronic. No lighting of any kind shall be approved unless
               compliant with subsection d of this section.
       Wall Signs are allowed per Section 10-19-3-B.8.
4 -Outdoor Lighting and Glare
       PURPOSE. It is the intent of this Subsection to establish lighting practices and
       systems to minimize light pollution, glare, and light trespass; conserve energy and
       resources while maintaining nighttime safety, utility, and security; and curtail the
       degradation of the nighttime visual environment.
       It is recognized that the rural nature of Pine Valley is unique and valuable to the
       community. The enjoyment of a starry night is an experience the community
       desires to preserve. The Pine Valley Overlay Zone promotes the reduction of light
       pollution that interferes with enjoyment of the night sky.
       If public lighting fixtures are required for safety, rural or historical style fixtures
       shall be used.
       The functional objectives in providing outdoor lighting are to illuminate areas
       necessary for safe, comfortable, and energy-efficient use. Outdoor lighting shall
       be shielded and limited to provide for safe entry and egress
       The following standards shall apply to new lighting:
       1. SHIELDING. All non-exempt outdoor lighting shall be fully shielded.
       2. BUILDING CANOPY, SOFFIT, AND WALL MOUNTED LIGHTING.
          Lighting fixtures mounted on a Canopy or soffit shall be recessed so that the
          lighting is flush with the bottom surface and fully shielded by the fixture or
          the edge of the Canopy or soffit. Wall-mounted fixtures shall not be mounted
          above eighteen feet (18') as measured from the top of the fixture to the
          adjacent Grade or horizontal plane being lit by the fixture.

                                                                                            13
3. CONSTRUCTION LIGHTING. All commercial construction sites shall
   shield lighting to minimize glare on adjacent parcels.
4. PATHWAY LIGHTING. The intent of pathway lighting is to provide pools
   of light to help direct pedestrians along the path, not to fully illuminate the
   path. Pathway intersections should be illuminated for safety. Pathway lighting
   and public trails, when required, shall not be mounted more than ten feet (10')
   above finished grade. Residential pathways must be shielded to minimize the
   glare on adjacent properties.
5. SEASONAL LIGHTING. Winter seasonal lights that do not cause light
   trespass or interfere with the reasonable use and enjoyment of property are
   permitted from the first of November to the first of February. Seasonal lights
   are exempt from the fully shielded requirement and any color of lights may be
   used; however, seasonal lights shall not be used to create advertising messages
   or signs. Digital displays are prohibited. Spelling out the name of a Business
   with seasonal lights is prohibited.
       a. Residential seasonal lights shall comply with zone-required Setbacks
          and be turned off by midnight. Flashing, blinking, intermittent lights,
          or other lights that move or give the impression of movement are
          prohibited except during holidays, including permanent year-round
          programmable lighting.
       b. Commercial seasonal lights shall be turned off by midnight.
       c. EXCEPTIONS.
               1. String Lights are exempt from the fully shielded requirement
                  and may be used year-round to illuminate decks, porches, and
                  patios, gazebos, and pergolas, but are prohibited from wrapping
                  the entire roofline of the house and illuminating landscaping or
                  outlining structures.

6.     LIGHTING THAT IS DISCOURAGED
       a. Architectural lighting;
       b. Landscaping lighting

7.     PROHIBITED LIGHTING. Unless otherwise exempted, the following
       are prohibited:
       a. Up-lighting;
       b. Unshielded Floodlights;
       c. Unshielded Spotlights;
       d. Search lighting, laser source lights, or high intensity lighting except by
          police and fire personnel or at their discretion.

                                                                                14
       e. Flashing, blinking, intermittent, or other lights that move or give the
          impression of movement, except for seasonal lighting; this includes
          permanent year-round programmable lighting.
       f. Neon or luminous tube lighting;
       g. Lighting fixtures affixed to commercial buildings for the purposes of
          lighting parking areas or sales display lot areas. Fully shielded fixtures
          may be attached to building to light walkways and parking spaces
          adjacent to buildings.
8. LIGHT TRESPASS. Light trespass is artificial light that falls beyond the
   legal boundaries of the property it is intended to illuminate. Outdoor lighting
   shall be aimed and fully shielded so that the direct illumination shall be
   confined to the property boundaries of the source.
9. EXEMPTIONS. The following are exempt from this Subsection:
       a. Gas Lights. All outdoor light fixtures producing light directly by the
          combustion of natural gas or other fossil fuels are exempt from the
          requirements of this Code.
       b. Up-lighting. Up-lighting is permitted in limited circumstances: for
          government funded or owned statues, public monuments, ground-
          mounted Public Art, or flags of the United States of America.
                              i.      All up-lighting shall be shielded and/or have
                                      beam-angle control and shall be aimed to
                                      limit the directed light to the illuminated
                                      object only.


                              ii.     Up-lighting is permitted thirty (30) minutes
                                      before sunset and until 11:00 p.m.; or, one
                                      hour after the close of location based on
                                      normal hours of operations, whichever is
                                      later.
       c. Temporary lighting for outdoor filming and outdoor performance
          venues.
       d. Underwater lighting in swimming polls, hot tubs, and other water
          features.
       e. Traffic control signals and devices.
       f. Streetlights. See rural street section

                                                                                15
5-Fire protection
       Due to the proximity of the National Forest land that surrounds the community,
       Fire protection is a high priority for the Pine Valley Overlay Zone.
       Fire Hydrants- The Pine Valley Fire Department is responsible for fire hydrants.
       Newly developed area will require additional fire hydrants that meet Washington
       County standards. Additional hydrants in already developed areas will be located
       as necessary. The Washington County Code is responsible for fire hydrant
       locations and will determine acceptable distance of hydrant from the home.
       Fire Pits- Pine Valley Overlay Zone is a high-risk area for fire. Small recreational
       fire pits are allowed in residential zones and shall be allowed per the adopted
       Wildland Urban Interface Code. Permanently installed firepits are recommended
       for increased fire safety. It is recommended that firepits be located at least fifteen
       feet away from any structure, plants, trees or anything flammable. Burning is
       limited to dry, clean, natural materials. No garbage, plastics, rubber, oils, or
       construction waste.
       Defensible Space- It is encouraged to create a defensible space around residential
       buildings by keeping twigs, leaves, shrubs, dead grasses and brushes away from
       the perimeter of the structures. Trim trees and remove branches away from any
       structure.
6-Meadow Protection
       Preserving the meadows in Pine Valley has been a long-term goal. Working with
       the Virgin River Land Preservation Association, Pine Valley property owners
       have protected 100 acres of historic meadowlands (as of March 2022), using
       conservation easements that allows them to either sell or donate their
       development rights. These easements protect agricultural uses and minimize
       development; they are crafted individually with each landowner.
       Future policy should accommodate this voluntary effort between the individual
       landowners and the land trust.
       It is recommended that no development take place in the meadows beyond a
       depth of one block north of the main east-west road through the community.




                                                                                          16
       To further the meadow protection, seeking out financial opportunities is
       encouraged through local, state, or federal grants.
7-Dumping or Disposal
       Dumping or disposal of construction materials or other materials shall be subject
       to Section 10-13-20 of the Washington County Code and is prohibited in any
       public right of way.
       8- Cell Towers
       To preserve the rural nature of Pine Valley, co-location of wireless
       communication antennas is encouraged to minimize the number of tower
       structures. A Conditional Use Permit will be required for all Wireless Facilities.
       Facilities located on buildings is encouraged. Wireless communication facilities
       with lattice are prohibited. All wireless facilities shall be fully enclosed.
       Equipment required to support the wireless communication facility shall be fully

    Green - 100 Acres in
    Trust
    Red - In Progress
    White - Historic
    Chapel




       enclosed. Height shall be limited to no more than 10 feet higher than the
       permitted height for structures in the zoning district it is located within.
       Alternative tower structures/stealth facility are also encouraged to camouflage or
       conceal a wireless communication tower. Alternative tower structures may be
       designed to appear as trees, chimneys on a structure, or similar projections that
       blend in with the rural nature of the community.


                                                                                       17
             Locational and additional standards for wireless facilities are found in Chapter 21
             of the Washington County Municipal Code.
10-27A-5 Definitions
      The following terms are defined as follows. Terms used in the present tense include the
      future tense. Terms defined in the singular number include the plural and the plural the
      singular. Terms that have not been defined herein but are separately defined in the
      building code and/or other sections of the zoning code shall be construed as defined
      therein:
      ACCESSORY USE: An allowed land use that is subordinate and incidental to the main
      use on the lot or parcel.
      COUNTRY STORE: a store that is community oriented and sells staple food items such
      as bread and milk, where 75% of the gross sale is dedicated to food items. Building size
      is limited to 5,000 square feet. Hours of operation are limited to 18 hours per day. The
      character of the building shall be rural or historic architectural style.
      DARK SKY: A nighttime sky that is substantially free of interference from artificial
      light.
      FENCE, NON-OBSCURING: A fence which does not obstruct views or sight lines.
      FINANCIAL SERVICES: Professional services involving the investment, lending,
      and management of money and assets. This includes tax preparation, insurance coverage,
      and investment portfolios. It does not include banks or credit unions.
      PERSONAL CARE SERVICE: An establishment primarily engaged in the provision of
      frequently recurring needed services of a personal nature. Typical uses include but are not
      limited to beauty and barber shops, massage therapy, custom tailoring and seamstress
      shops, esthetician, portrait studios, shoe repair shops, and tanning and nail salons.
      PERSONAL INSTRUCTION SERVICE: An establishment primarily engaged in the
      provision of informational, instructional, personal improvement and similar services of a
      nonprofessional nature. Typical uses include but are not limited to art and music schools,
      driving and computer instruction, handicraft or hobby instruction, health, and fitness
      studios.
10-27A-6 Application Procedures and Process
      Prior to an application for development is submitted to Washington County Community
      Development, a Pine Valley community meeting shall be held to review the development
      proposal. The notice of the meeting shall be held to review the development proposal.
      The notice of the meeting shall be in conformance with section 10-2-3 of the Washington
      County Code.


                                                                                             18
The Pine Valley community will provide feedback to the applicant to help ensure the
proposal complies with the Pine Valley Overlay Zone regulations prior to the applicant
submitting a complete land use application to County.
A. Review Recommendation Committee: After an applicant submits a complete land use
application to the County, the Pine Valley Local Administrative District (PVLAD) shall
function as the overlay zone review recommendation committee.
B. Recommendation of Committee: The PVLAD shall review complete applications
submitted to the community development department pertaining to the Pine Valley
overlay zone and provide a written narrative and recommendation to the community
development department for each such application. The designated land use authority
may consider the PVLAD‘s failure to make a recommendation as a negative
recomendation. The recommendation of the PVLAD is non binding, and the County
land use authority is responsible for applying and enforcing Title 10, including the
provisions in the Pine Valley Overlay Zone.
C. Approval Required: The site plan and exterior design of all buildings and development
proposed for the Pine Valley Overlay zone shall be reviewed by the PVLAD, prior to
submission to the Community Development Department. The County makes all final site
plan, design, and development approval decisions.
D. Denial – Further Consideration/Appeals: An applicant who has been denied a permit
or approval by the Community Development Department may seek further consideration
by following the process outlined in Title 10 Chapter 2 of the Washington County Code.




                                                                                       19
