                                     CITY OF KEARNS
                                    COUNCIL MEETING
                                        AGENDA
                                       March 10, 2025

                                          Kearns Library
                                         4275 W 5345 S
                                        Kearns, Utah 84118

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Kearns City Council will hold a meeting on the
10th day of March 2025 beginning at 6:00 p.m. at the Kearns Library, 4275 W 5345 S, Kearns, Utah
as follows:

**Portions of the meeting may be closed for reasons allowed by statue. Motions relating to any of
the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

                                       PUBLIC MEETING

    1.   CALL TO ORDER
    2.   DETERMINE QUORUM
    3.   VISITING OFFICIALS
    4.   CITIZEN PUBLIC INPUT (Limited to 3 Minutes Per Person)

                                        ORDER OF BUSINESS:
    5. CONSENT AGENDA
         A. Approve Council Meeting Minutes
                  a. August 12, 2024
                  b. February 10, 2025

    6. COUNCIL BUSINESS – ACTION ITEMS (Discussion/Motion)
         A. Kearns Community Council Budget Request – Mayor Kelly Bush
         B. Consider Resolution R2025-04, Purchasing Policy Amendments – Nathan Bracken,
            Legal Counsel
         C. Consider Ordinance 2025-O-06, An Ordinance Creating the City of Kearns Community
            Reinvestment Agency - Adam Long, Legal Counsel

    7. WORKSHOP (Discussion only)
      A. Compensation Wages City Council Members – Council Member Al Peterson
       B. Capital Improvement Projects FY2026 – Chad Anderson, Engineering Manager

    8. STAKEHOLDER UPDATES / INFORMATION
      A. Kearns Improvement District (KID) - Greg Anderson, General Manager
       B. Kearns Library - Lee Whiting, Librarian
       C. Wasatch Front Waste Recycling District (WFWRD) - Renee Plant, Manager
      D. Unified Fire Authority (UFA) - Chief Russell
       E. Unified Police Department (UPD) - Chief Hughes
       F. Kearns Community Council - Roger Snow
    9. OTHER BUSINESS                          1
       A. Future Agenda Business (Motion/Voting)

   10. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE §52-4-
       205
       A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health of
           an individual
       B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation
       C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property
       D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and/or
       E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205


   11. ADJOURN

Upon request, within three working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
will provide free auxiliary aids and services to qualified individuals (including sign language
interpreters, alternative, etc.). For assistance, please call (385) 377-9466 – TTY 711.

JOIN VIA ZOOM:

Meeting link:

https://us06web.zoom.us/j/87277992611?pwd=AP0BNz8kHOyYbLZdHwdIkX1XgJ54qM.1

Meeting ID: 872 7799 2611
Passcode: 790959

POSTED ON: March 5, 2025




                                                  2
                          CITY OF KEARNS
                          COUNCIL MEETING
                          AUGUST 12, 2024, 6:00 PM
                          KEARNS LIBRARY - 4275 W 5345 S, KEARNS, UTAH 84118



                     CITY OF KEARNS COUNCL MEETING MINUTES
                         **DRAFT MINUTES – UNAPPROVED**

Council Members Present:                                    Council Members Excused:
Kelly Bush, Chair                                           Patrick Schaeffer
Tina Snow, Vice Chair
Chrystal Butterfield
Alan Peterson

Staff Present:
Nathan Bracken, Legal Counsel
Nicole Smedley, Municipal Services District Council Clerk/Recorder
Daniel Torres, Economic Development Manager

Others Present:
Chief Russell, Unified Fire Department
Chief Hughes, Unified Police Department
Greg Anderson, Kearns Improvement District General Manager/CEO

1. Call to Order

Mayor Bush, presiding, called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM.

2. Determine Quorum

Mayor Bush announced that a quorum was present and noted that Council Member Schaeffer
was excused as he is still recovering.

3. Citizen Public Input

Annie Andrews shared her concerns about community safety, mentioning her ongoing follow-
up with federal agencies on various matters. She invited the Council and community to a
Saturday night event at her home, where she planned to screen Ghostbusters: Frozen Empire.

Christopher Gertson highlighted his contributions to local tourism through geocaching, with
an estimated 10,000 visitors to his caches in the Kearns area over the past decade. He also
mentioned his recent efforts with “Munzee,” a QR code-based scavenger hunt game, which he
hopes will increase community engagement.


                                CITY OF KEARNS COUNCIL
                       MAYOR KELLY BUSH, DEPUTY MAYOR TINA SNOW
           COUNCIL MEMBER CHRYSTAL BUTTERFIELD, COUNCIL MEMBER ALAN PETERSON,
                           COUNCIL MEMBER PATRICK SCHAEFFER
Carlos Moreno is a candidate for Salt Lake County Council District 2, introduced himself. A
Venezuelan immigrant and U.S. citizen as of 2022, he shared his background, his commitment
to learning about community issues, and his intention to be a resource if elected.

Darren Nordin praised the recent Hometown Night event, noting it was well-attended and
enjoyable. He expressed appreciation for the sense of community it fostered and
acknowledged the work of organizers.

Richard McCune inquired about the progress of the Misty Way and 62nd South Public Works
Project. Mayor Barney informed him that the project was moving forward, with gravel being
compacted as a final step.

4. Council Business
      A. Recognition of Joe Hatch for His Service as Planning Commissioner

The Council formally recognized Joe Hatch for his years of dedicated service on the Kearns
Planning Commission. His wife, Cheryl Hatch, was present to accept the award on his behalf.
Council members expressed deep appreciation for Joe’s contributions, particularly his
involvement in the city’s General Plan. A moment of silence was observed in Joe Hatch’s
memory.

      B. Authorization to Issue a Request for Proposals for a Certified Decontamination
         Specialist for Abatements of Hazardous Materials

Mayor Bush explained the reasons for needing this request for proposals, to handle
abatements of hazardous materials in abandoned or contaminated homes that have not been
taken care of in a timely manner.

Nathan Bracken provided background on legislation that mandates cities act on meth-
contaminated properties if health departments do not act within six months.

Mayor Bush emphasized the importance of addressing these homes promptly to avoid
community blight and acknowledged recent success in reducing the number of contaminated
properties. The RFP will designate Alicia Gonzalez as the contact.

Council Member Snow moved to authorize the issuance of a request for proposals for a
certified decontamination specialist for abatement of hazardous materials. Council
Member Butterfield seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor. Council
Member Schaeffer was excused from the vote.

      C. Resolution 2024-08-01 to Begin the Impact Fee Development Process and to
         Issue a Request for Proposals for a Qualified Contractor to Prepare an Impact
         Fee Facilities Plan

Mayor Bush noted that there were lots of questions from the public on this issue, so she asked
the city’s Legal Counsel, Nathan Bracken, explain this item again for the public.



             City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Nathan Bracken explained that impact fees are a limited tool for cities to cover cost coming
from growth. There were no impact fees with the county, which means Kearns still does not
have them after incorporation as a city. When a new development comes in, cities charge an
impact fee to cover the costs directly related to infrastructure impacts from the new
development. Without these fees, current residents bear those costs associated with
infrastructure strain. Impact fees are limited and regulated based on the development being
done, and this is not a fee charged to existing residents or businesses. He also discussed
using impact fee waivers to incentivize affordable housing. The first step would be creating an
impact fees facility plan, hiring a consultant to assess the current level of service in the city
along with infrastructure, coming up with a facilities plan. The council would then review that
plan and decide if pursuing impact fees are warranted. If the council decides to proceed with
implementing impact fees, they would then need an impact fee study, which looks at the
potential fees and how Kearns would assess those according to current regulations. If the
council reviews that report and decides to assess those fees, the council would then vote to
approve an ordinance adding those fees for the city. The resolution tonight would be
authorizing the city to begin the process of developing an Impact Fee Facilities Plan by issuing
a request for proposals (RFP).

Mayor Bush moved to approve Resolution 2024-08-01, amending the title of the
resolution to authorize the issuance of an RFP to prepare an impact fees facility plan
that seconded by Council Member Snow seconded the motion; vote was 4-0,
unanimous in favor. Council Member Schaeffer was excused from the vote.

      D. Authorization for Staff to Complete Negotiations and for the Mayor to Sign a
         Building Inspection Contract to Assess the Possible Use of the Oquirrh Hills
         Elementary School as a Community Center

Dan Torres explained the request for proposals has been issued, and staff are currently going
back and forth on the details of the contract. The attorney has directed staff to get
authorization for the mayor to sign a contract when one is completed.

Nathan Bracken shared a contract was received last Wednesday, but there are a few things
that need to be adjusted that he didn’t have time for before this meeting. He is asking for
authorization to finalize those negotiations, with his recommendation being to authorize the
mayor to have final say in executing this contract to keep the process moving.

Council Member Snow moved to authorize the Mayor to sign a contract as noted above.
Council Member Butterfield seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor.
Council Member Schaeffer was excused from the vote.

      E. Approval of Minutes for the Meeting Held on 6/10/2024




              City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Council Member Snow moved to approve the June 10, 2024 City Council Minutes as
published. Council Member Butterfield seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous
in favor. Council Member Schaeffer was excused from the vote.

5. Stakeholder Updates/Information

      A. Kearns Improvement District (KID)

Greg Anderson provided updates on two major initiatives. First, he reported that KID
completed its inspection for lead in water pipes as mandated by the EPA. The inspection
revealed no lead in the district’s infrastructure, and the findings were approved by the Utah
Division of Drinking Water. Second, he discussed the installation of automated water meters,
which will allow residents to monitor their water usage via an app. Anderson presented a
promotional video on the new metering technology, which will be available to customers in the
coming weeks. He also noted extended hours at the KID office, now open from 7:30 AM to
5:30 PM. He talked about participating in the parade, thanking the city for their support, and
sharing Congressman Owens’ support for the winners of their recent contest.

      B. Kearns Library - None

      C. MyKearns Community Coalition

Kristen Dietz shared updates on several grant applications. The Coalition applied for a
parenting program grant to support community-based family engagement initiatives. They also
sought funding for youth activity programs and are awaiting a response on a Peer Court grant
application. Kristen highlighted recent community involvement at events, including Hometown
Night and the Pacific Islander Month kickoff, and ongoing partnerships to advance a
community garden project.

Mayor Bush spoke with Josh on a legislative situation, noting that they are going to ask
MyKearns Community Coalition to lead that project.

      D. Wasatch Front Waste Recycling District

Renee Plant announced the schedule for the SCRAP Program, noting that dumpsters would
be delivered to three Kearns zones over the next three weeks. She reminded residents of
Wasatch Front Waste Recycling District’s additional rental services, such as green waste
trailers and bulk waste trailers, and emphasized keeping construction materials out of recycling
bins. She also discussed the QR vouchers accessible online and reminded everyone to keep
construction items out of recycling bins.

      E. United Fire Authority

Chief Russell provided a recap of UFA’s July 24th holiday activity, reporting that the day saw
only a slight increase in call volume compared to average, with minimal fire incidents. Chief




             City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Russell also invited the Council to a pancake breakfast hosted by UFA on September 7, 2024,
and updated them on the anticipated arrival of a new ladder truck.

      F. Unified Police Department

Chief Hughes reviewed crime statistics for July, noting a decrease in call volume from the
previous year. He acknowledged the diligent work of UPD officers despite staffing shortages
after the split from the Sheriff’s Office. He expressed appreciation for the success of recent
community events, including Hometown Night and Fire, Water, and Ice, which ran smoothly
with no major incidents. He discussed the lunch for crossing guards being hosted by the UPD
as well at 11:30 on the 28th.

6. Other Business
      A. Future agenda business

7. Closed Session per Utah Code §52-4-205

Council Member Snow motioned to go into Closed Session to discuss reasonably
imminent litigation issues. Council Member Butterfield seconded the motion; vote was
4-0, unanimous in favor. Council Member Schaeffer was excused from the vote.



8. Motion to Adjourn Meeting

Council Member Snow moved to adjourn the August 12, 2024 Council Meeting. Council
Member Butterfield seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor. Council
Member Schaeffer was excused from the vote.

The August 12, 2024 City Council Meeting adjourned at 7:01pm.


The August 12, 2024 City Council Meeting Minutes were Approved by the City Council
on March 10, 2025:


                                                          Kelly Bush, Mayor
ATTEST:


Diana Baun, City Recorder




             City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
                            CITY OF KEARNS
                            CITY COUNCIL MEETING
                            FEBRUARY 10, 2025, 6:00 PM
                            KEARNS LIBRARY - 4275 W 5345 S, KEARNS, UTAH 84118



                      CITY OF KEARNS COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
                           **DRAFT MINUTES – UNAPPROVED**

Council Members Present:                                      Council Members Excused:
Kelly Bush, Chair
Chrystal Butterfield
Patrick Schaeffer
Alan Peterson
Tina Snow

Staff Present:
Diana Baun, Recorder
Nathan Bracken, City Attorney
Madison Warren, Municipal Planner
Dan Torres, Economic Development Manager
Chad Anderson
Bianca Paulino
Chief Levi Hughes, Unified Police Department
Chief Russell, Unified Fire Authority

Others Present:
Lee Whiting, Jeff Driggs,

1. Call to Order

Mayor Bush, presiding, called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM.

2. Determine Quorum

Mayor Bush announced that a quorum was present allowing the meeting to proceed.

3. Visiting Public Officials - None

4. Citizen Public Input

Jeff Driggs – Vice Chair of Board of Trustees of Off-Broadway Theater (OBT). He gave a brief
history of the OB, noting they would like to bring their theater to Kearns with the school lease
being discussed tonight. They are excited about being a tenant at the proposed facility and


                                 CITY OF KEARNS COUNCIL
                       MAYOR KELLY BUSH, DEPUTY MAYOR TINA SNOW
           COUNCIL MEMBER CHRYSTAL BUTTERFIELD, COUNCIL MEMBER ALAN PETERSON,
                           COUNCIL MEMBER PATRICK SCHAEFFER
they would like to be considered the Kearns Community Center, with residents getting
discounts and partnering with schools for education.

Gregory Christenson said his concern is for a public hearing being held tonight with nothing on
the agenda indicating public comment during that time. There will be important matters
discussed for this community.

Mayor Kelly Bush indicated there was a public hearing notice posted prior to the meeting.

Mr. Christensen continued noting there is no agenda item for public comment during that
hearing.

Staff informed Mr. Christenson that his item was listed under the Public Hearing section, which
indicated there will be a public hearing when the time comes.

Richard McKewnon – shared March 15 there will be a statewide food drive to benefit the Utah
Food Bank. The week prior in Kearns there will be a flyer distributed with a bag to put on doors
with all the information.

Janine Johnson – Property Manager of Carrington Square Apartments on Cougar Lane. She is
requesting streetlights on Cougar Lane, as it is very dark and she and her residents are having
trouble crossing that street with no lights, along with no crosswalks.

Mayor Bush indicated a new crossing is going in that area and she made notes on the request.

5. Public Hearing

   A. Compensation wages for Mayor, City Manager, and Planning Commissioners – Mayor
      Kelly Bush

Mayor Bush reviewed the local comparison wages/benefits for mayors at large in the state, as
included in the meeting packet.

Council Member Snow shared the numbers being discussed for the Mayor of Kearns in 2026,
based on an average amount from the research shown. That average amount is $55,000 a
year. Most of the mayor positions listed are part-time, and have similar populations to Kearns.

Council Member Snow moved to open the public hearing, Council Member Schaeffer
seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

Gregory Christenson asked about the populations of the cities listed, questioning whether or
not they had similar populations.

Council Member Snow responded that most of them had similar populations and reiterated that
their number was an average.




             City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Council Member Snow moved to close public comment, Council Member Butterfield
seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

Mayor Bush explained this is being done now because it has to be in the budget before July.
This does not affect her as she will not be getting these wages during her current term, this will
go into effect for the next mayor.

Council Member Peterson asked about the planning commission compensation, to which
Mayor Bush responded that will be discussed next; she is discussing each position separately,
with a separate public hearing.

Nathan Bracken noted the public hearing is required for mayor and city manager
compensation; it is not required for planning commissioners. The public notice was only issued
for those two positions, but they are including the planning commissioners in the council’s
discussions to allow for efficiency and public knowledge.

Mayor Bush indicated that the city manager position will be filled in the future, this is not a
position they are posting for right after this meeting. The current council is looking at the
options for future employees and they want everyone to see and be a part of the process.

Council Member Peterson noted that upon review of the list he disregarded those outside of
Salt Lake County, including Eagle Mountain, Lehi and Tooele. After that he added Midvale,
West Valley, Draper, Millcreek, Holladay, Herriman, Riverton and Magna for his research. He
did not average the rates but he wrote them down: Draper Mayor is at $35,000 with $11,000
benefits for a total of $46,000. The included spreadsheet for mayoral wages showed the
Draper Mayor’s benefits as $108,000, but the council believes that was a misprint. The council
discussed what benefits include, like health insurance, etc. Millcreek’s Mayor makes $42,000
with $20,000 in benefits, for a total of $62,000. Holladay’s Mayor is at $35,000 with $4000 in
benefits, for a total of $39,000. Herriman’s Mayor is $24,000 with $16,000 in benefits, for a
total of $40,000. Riverton’s Mayor is at $48,000 with $31,000 in benefits, for a total of $79,000.
Magna’s Mayor is at $9,000 with no benefits, but the council noted Magna’s amounts are not
correct and should not be included. He also pointed out the relative populations, and when
asked by other council members what he would like to see the wages placed at, he indicated
he did not have an opinion and that he would give some thoughts if someone made a motion.

Council Member Schaeffer is okay with the number but also agrees with Council Member
Peterson that he would like to do a little more research himself to make sure the number is
correct. This is the first time he has heard the $55,000 number, so he would like some more
information.

Mayor Bush noted she has been doing this for nine years, doing three jobs including being the
city manager, the admin and the mayor. For the first four years she did it for free, and the rest
of the time she made $35,000 for doing those three jobs. She asked the rest of the council if
that’s what they’d like to continue paying the next mayor, because they may not be willing to
do all that work for that small amount like she has. She also discussed the other benefits




              City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
received by these mayors that are not listed in the records, things like a clothing allowance,
and inflation allowances.

Council Member Snow indicated that she and Council Member Butterfield added up the
amounts shared and the average comes out to $59,104 with the Salt Lake County cities only.

Mayor Bush indicated this would be tabled, and she assigned the council members to bring
back the full benefits from the cities brought up to help bring more information to this
discussion. They need to bring that information back to next month’s meeting to get this in the
budget ASAP.

Council Member Peterson suggested a special meeting for just this topic.

Nathan Bracken suggested moving on to take the public comment on the city manager before
closing this discussion since those two positions will work together.

Mayor Bush moved on to discuss wages for a city manager position, with Council Member
Snow noting that initially her suggestion was to put the mayor and city manager at the same
rate. However, she has since learned that it would not be beneficial to the city after speaking
with their legal counsel, Nathan Bracken, who explained that would be undercutting the city
manager in a full-time position.

Council Member Peterson noted that he looked comparisons up as well, which were wide
ranging with Taylorsville paying $230,000 in wages and $82,000 in benefits for a total of
$314,000; South Jordan paying $162,000 in wages and $7,000 in benefits for a total of
$169,000; Midvale paying $179,000 in wages and $82,000 for a total of $279,000; West Valley
paying $65,000 for wages and $15,000 in benefits for a total of $80,000; Draper paying straight
benefits with no wages at $69,000, however Council Member Snow noted that was incorrect
and they were actually paid wages plus the benefits to total $330,192; Millcreek paying
$230,000 in wages and $57,000 in benefits for a total of $287,000; Holladay paying $250,000
total for wages and benefits; Herriman paying $288,000 total for wages and benefits; Riverton
paying $253,000 in ages and nothing in benefits; Magna paying $90,000 in wages and
$29,000 in benefits for a total of $119,000.

Nathan Bracken commented that the Magna City Manager wage was incorrect, he now has a
salary of $180,000.

Dan Torres noted that he did a comparison like this for another city recently, and he would be
happy to share that information with the council.

Council Member Peterson said that when they discussed this in 2021, they were looking to
split the cost of a city manager with the Town of Copperton as a part-time position. However, it
appears things have changed so drastically that sharing a manager with another town or city is
not possible.




              City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Mr. Bracken explained the plan was to split an assistant clerk with Copperton, not a city
manager. At the time, they did add language to the city code authorizing the city council to hire
a city manager if desired, but no budget was set.

Council Member Schaeffer asked if a number is agreed upon now, and in the near future it is
deemed to not be enough, will they have to wait until July to bump up that pay or can they
keep a buffer in the budget to raise that amount when needed.

Mr. Bracken noted the budget can be amended, however these types of negotiations on wages
are usually done during the regular budget review, and that could be done in the future when
the time is here.

Council Member Peterson asked about the selection of a city manager, if it’s posted on the
website.

Mr. Bracken responded that it is posted to the public and they would go through the regular
hiring process. There would be a ceiling in the budget, it would be noticed and advertised with
potentially a hiring committee appointed by the council handling the hiring and interviews. The
council would then hire for the position and decide what wages would be given based on the
budget and their experience. The discussion today is only to put something in the budget to
establish compensation for the position in the future.

Council Member Schaeffer suggested $150,000 to start.

Council Member Butterfield suggested with benefits and wages $180,000; Council Member
Schaeffer was alright with this suggestion as well.

Council Member Peterson was agreeable with not exceeding $180,000 unless amended.

Council Member Snow was agreeable to that amount as well.

Council Member Snow moved to open the public hearing, Council Member Schaeffer
seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

Gregory Christenson asked if the amount suggested was total compensation, and what the
benefits package would include.

Council Member Snow indicated this would be a full-time position, and the $180,000
suggestion included benefits.

Council Member Snow moved to close the public hearing, Council Member Butterfield
seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

Mayor Bush noted that the city is having a hard time getting and retaining planning commission
members, especially after Joe Hatch passed away. Most cities give a stipend of about $35 per




              City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
meeting, if they attend. The city has a lot of development coming up that will really need good
planning commissioners, and she is hoping to expand the planning commission.

Council Member Butterfield moved to open the public hearing, Council Member Snow
seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

Roger Snow has been involved with the planning commission in Kearns for about 16 years, it
is a subcommittee of his on another council. As far as commissioner go, it is hard to get
commissioners and they have always been shorthanded; very few times have they had a full
quorum as a commission. In addition, for about nine months doing the general plan he was
involved in that, and many of the planning commissioners were involved with that also. They
absolutely have to do something to retain and even invite people to come to be planning
commissioners. Currently, a full quorum would consist of five members, meeting once a month
plus required training.

Cheryl Hatch – husband was Joe Hatch, a previous commissioner. When he was on the
commission, it was during the time they were making zoning changes and they spent hours
doing that; it was more than just the one meeting a month at the time. Lots of that was also
happening during Covid so she remembers him being sent huge books he had to go through.
She always felt bad for all the time he put in with no compensation, because it was a volunteer
board; she is definitely in support of offering a compensation for that with consideration for the
times they meet more than once a month. The fact they are offering a stipend for each
meeting; she is in support of that. It is difficult to find people to volunteer, so offering even
something small is something and generally the meetings she attended with him were only a
few hours. She doesn’t know how that will change with them being a city now, but she thinks
that should be kept in mind.

Mayor Bush noted that trying to come up with a stipend can be difficult because all the other
cities had very different compensations for their planning commissioners, there was no ability
to create a valid range for discussion.

Gregory Christenson – having served on the planning commission, $35 is not enough to him;
he would recommend $50 at a minimum.

Mayor Bush noted there is one commissioner waiting to be replaced and another ready to
leave.

Mr. Christenson noted it also might be helpful if the public knew the positions were open. He
doesn’t ever see any announcements of any kind that there are positions on the commission
open.

Mayor Bush believes the position with the application was posted on the city website and
encouraged those listening to check the website because there is a position currently open.

Joy Nelson – current planning commissioner noted that she is one of the ones heading out,
she has been on the commission for nine years as a volunteer. She thinks a stipend is a great



              City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
idea, and she might consider taking back her resignation and staying if there is a good stipend.
It has taken a lot of her time, and she feels like she needs to move on to other things if she has
no compensation.

Mr. Bracken noted the workload should be the same as when they were a Metro Township, as
they still have the same responsibilities. They are typically looking at one meeting a month.
There is a pre-meeting coordination call with the chair and sometimes the vice chair to go over
the agenda, and that is something else to think about in terms of additional compensation for
the chair. There is a statutory requirement for four hours of land use specific training, with an
additional hour of public meetings training. They are looking at about 12 meetings a year for
the average commissioner and about 5 hours of extra training, in addition to the amount of
work done before the meeting in preparation.

Council Member Butterfield moved to close the public hearing, Council Member
Schaeffer seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

Mayor Bush reviewed the suggested stipends, noting the additional work pointed out and a
current commissioner who is willing to stay if the stipend was available.

Council Member Peterson liked $50 per meeting.

Council Member Schaeffer would say $75 per meeting to ensure they can keep
commissioners.

Council Member Snow asked Ms. Hatch how many hours her husband would put in each week
behind the scenes.

Ms. Hatch responded that it depends on what the issues are at the time.

Council Member Schaeffer noted that $75 a meeting, with 10 hours of work including
preparation is only $7.50 an hour; less than minimum wage.

Council Member Peterson noted there are also months where meetings are canceled.

Ms. Hatch noted her husband would have been thrilled with the $50, just something to
compensate them for their time and efforts.

Council Member Snow suggested $65, which was in the middle of the suggestions.

Council Member Peterson suggested $75 for the meetings and $50 for the training.

The council decided different amounts would be too difficult to manage and eventually agreed
on $70 for each meeting.




              City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Council Member Snow mentioned they may need to 1099 the planning commission members
each year for their stipends since it’s over $700, and asked Commissioner Nelson if the $70
per meeting would entice her to stay.

Ms. Nelson responded that with a stipend she would be willing to stay.

Mayor Bush asked if the council would be willing to go back to the mayor’s wages, or if they
would be tabling that.

Council Member Peterson brought up council member wages, but the council and staff
suggested that be covered at a different time since they haven’t chosen a mayoral wage. He
had concerns because many of the cities have the mayor making up to four times the amounts
paid to the council members.

Mayor Bush brought the suggested $50,000 in wages with $10,000 in benefits to the council
for review. Council Member Snow and Council Member Schaeffer were okay with the amount.
Council Member Peterson felt that everyone had made up their minds and noted that if he
votes no, he is unable to reconsider the motion as the minority.

Council Member Snow moved to reopen the public hearing, Council Member Butterfield
seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

Gregory Christenson noted that previously it was said the average of surrounding cities was
around $59,000, and they dropped to $50,000. He recommended going to $60,000 plus
benefits and put the mayor at $70,000 overall. They are wanting a full-time mayor but
suggesting a pay rate less than the average income in Kearns.

Council Member Snow moved to close the public hearing, Council Member Butterfield
seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

Council Member Peterson likes the $60,000 total, paying the majority to a city manager to do
the work.

Council Member Schaeffer sides with the public and thinks it should be at least $70,000.

Council Member Snow originally had $55,000 with benefits, totaling $65,000.

Council Member Butterfield thinks it should be $70,000 total.

The council and staff discussed the benefits estimates potentially being too low, but that can
be amended at a later date. The current proposals were Mayor at $70,000 total, City manager
at $180,000 total, and Planning Commissioners getting a $70 stipend per meeting attended.

   B. Consideration and Possible Adoption of Ordinance 2025-O-04 adopting a stipend for
      the Planning Commissioners, adjusting Compensation for the Mayor; and adopting
      Compensation for a City Manager Position.



             City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Council Member Snow moved to approve Ordinance 2025-O-04, adopting a stipend for
the Planning Commissioners, adjusting compensation for the Mayor, and adopting
compensation for a City Manager Position in the amounts stated above. Council
Member Schaeffer seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

6. Consent Agenda – None

7. Council Business

   A. Ordinance 2025-O-05 approving a franchise agreement with Questar Gas (d.b.a.
      Dominion Energy) – Nathan Bracken, City Attorney

Nathan Bracken reviewed the franchise agreement, authorizing utilities to install their
infrastructure in the public rights of way, rather than creating a separate easement or
agreement each time. Questar had a prior franchise agreement with Salt Lake County, and a
draft was created a few years ago for Kearns but put on hold waiting for the MET taxes to be
implemented. This draft is now updated with language related to the MET taxes. He heard
from Questar and they were asking for the agreement, but it has been sent to them and he
hasn’t heard from them since. He is assuming they are okay with the draft, so he is asking for
tentative approval on this draft subject to the mayor and legal finalizing any loose ends with
Questar. If things are substantially the same as what is seen right now, they would be
authorizing the mayor to execute the agreement.

Council Member Snow move to approve Ordinance 2025-O-05, approving a franchise
agreement with Questar Gas. Council Member Butterfield seconded the motion; vote
was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

   B. Resolution R2025-02 adopting the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District’s
      Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan – Madison Warner, Municipal Planner
      and Nathan Bracken, City Attorney

Madison Warner reviewed her presentation as included in the packet published prior to the
meeting.

Council Member Butterfield moved to approve Resolution R2025-02, adopting the
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District’s Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan. Council Member Snow seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

   C. Economic Development Report - Dan Torres, Economic Development Manager

Dan Torres shared the MSD will be hiring a Grant Writer who will be available to councils when
they find additional funding opportunities. The MSD is also hiring another Long-Range Planner
whose principal job will be transportation planning, and they will interface with engineers and
UDOT. The MSD has also begun quarterly meetings with those at UTA, UDOT and the Granite
School District with the hopes that the new transportation planner will take the lead for those
meetings. The MSD is still waiting to hear back from the Wasatch Regional Council on the



             City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
transportation master plan, which is another opportunity to align structure needs with the built
environment and land use on both the city and MSD level to help with coordinating Capital
Funding allotments. The MSD is also reviewing the 5400 Corridor study all the way from
Bangerter to Mountain View Corridor, and that will be coordinated with Taylorsville and West
Valley City, along with UDOT.

   D. Community Reinvestment Agency Recommendation and Discussion – Dan Torres,
      Economic Development Manager

Dan Torres reviewed his prepared presentation (Attachment B) regarding redevelopment and
reinvestment agencies and what they are. He brought up the Kearns Town Center, as well as
options for what could be located around the Oval prior to the Olympics. He recommended the
council engage a legal firm that specializes in redevelopment agencies, and he recommended
Adam Long who the MSD has worked with before and is very experienced. He explained that
they could bring Mr. Long to the next meeting for information and to go over plans, which could
include a loan from the council to the reinvestment agency for startup. He also included draft
bylaws (Attachment A) for the council’s consideration.

   E. Impact Fee Presentation – Dan Torres, Economic Development Manager

Dan Torres noted the council decided to look at impact fees for helping growth, and as decided
in the Moderate-Income Housing Report required annually. An RFQ was issued, three firms
were interviewed, and it was decided that they may not have enough data to do an effective
impact fee/facilities plan. Staff felt it would be more efficient to do a preliminary plan, and they
selected Ensign Engineering to prepare that plan. The plan includes identifying the
components needed to collect the data needed to launch a whole impact fees/facility plan.
After working with the subcontractors at Zion’s Bank, staff has a quote of about $10,000. There
is some wiggle room included in that, which includes hourly rates if additional work is needed.
This will be brought back to the council if those fees go over $10,000, and he feels confident
with these numbers. He asked the council to allow the mayor to enter into a contract with
Ensign to get things signed and moving. They are hoping to launch this the week of the 17th,
which is next week.

Council Member Snow moved to approve the committee’s recommendations as above
and authorize the mayor to sign a contract with Ensign Engineering. Council Member
Butterfield seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

Sgt. Fausett awarded Detective Angela Rowe the Detective of the Year Award.

   F. Agreement for Professional Services with Mobility Hub – Dan Torres, Economic
      Development Manager

No discussion for this meeting.

   G. Resolution R2025-03, Appointment of Michael Reynolds to the Planning Commission –
      Mayor Kelly Bush



              City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Council Member Snow moved to approve Resolution R2025-03, appointing Michael
Reynolds to the Planning Commission. Council Member Butterfield seconded the
motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

   H. Review of Kearns Purchasing Policy (discussion only) – Mayor Kelly Bush and
      Nathan Bracken, City Attorney

Nathan Bracken discussed the city’s current purchasing policy, created by David Church. It
has served the city well and has been easy to use and understand. It has not been updated in
a while, and he discussed the current set up in the policy. He is asking if the council would like
to update their threshold amounts, or if they still feel they are appropriate. In addition, he asked
if they would like to update the current template policy in their records and make it more
Kearns specific. The policy currently doesn’t have information on hiring certain professional
services, contract renewals, etc. The council agreed to look at the current policy and send
Nathan thoughts via email for revisions at the March meeting.

   I. Approval of a Part-Time Position for Crime Data Analysis – Chief Levi Hughes, UPD

Lt. Nelson stated they are looking to utilize technology and resources available to gather data
collected via reports and contacts with individuals to help utilize more efficient police work.
Other cities have moved to having analysts like this, including Salt Lake which pays an out-of-
state company for those services. There is an opportunity for a part-time person here to utilize
the current systems to provide this service, allowing the department to better focus their efforts
in the right place at the right times to prevent crime, as well as be able to properly identify
those committing crimes with the technology. This would not incur an increase in costs, as it is
using money currently available for a part-time position. This position would only be funded
from March 1 to the end of June, and they will be looking at what the department gets out of
the position, and if it’s viable for the future.

Council Member Snow moved to approve the part time position described above.
Council Member Schaeffer seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

   J. 2025 Municipal Election Voting Options – Diana Baun, Recorder

Diana Baun reviewed voting options for the upcoming municipal election, specifically rank
choice voting versus the standard primary/general election ballot options.

Council Member Snow moved to have Kearns utilize the standard primary/general
election model for the 2025 Municipal Elections. Council Member Butterfield seconded
the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

8. Stakeholder Updates/Information

   A. Kearns Improvement District (KID) - Greg Anderson, General Manager




              City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Cheryl Hatch shared they are planning some localscapes classes at the Kearns Improvement
District. For additional info, visit their website. The class will consist of creating the water rise,
xeriscaping appealing lawns, a Jordan Valley Conservation Specialist leading the class and
discussing rebates available. The classes are on February 19th at 2:00 pm, and February 22 at
9:30 am.

   B. Kearns Library - Lee Whiting, Librarian

       a. VITA free tax prep clinics at the Kearns Library
       (https://taxhelput.org/custom/502/opp_details/600)

Lee Whiting shared the library’s income tax assistance programs that run every Tuesday night
through the Tuesday before Tax Day (April 8) from 5:30 pm to 8:30 pm with volunteers ready
to help those with incomes of $70,000 or less. The website above has more information, or you
can call 211. The service is provided through United Way. They also have software available
for those wishing to self-file with incomes of $73,000 or less. Appointments can be made on
the website above.

   B. Wasatch Front Waste Recycling District (WFWRD) - Renee Plant, Manager

Renee Plant shared they will be reporting city specific recycling tonnages as required by
House Bill 107 passed last year. These amounts will be included in WFWRD’s newsletters,
specifically in May and November of every year. This will allow the cities to get the data they
need to post in June and December of each year to stay compliant. The information can be
retrieved ahead of time as it will be updated quarterly on the website for each city.

   C. Unified Fire Authority (UFA) - Chief Russell

Chief Russell discussed the recruit camp currently ongoing with 35 recruits, which will allow
stations to reduce their overtime. They are going through their budget process currently, and
each division leader has been asked to come up with a 10% budget cut. For him, operationally
they are making cuts in overtime to hopefully meet that 10% goal to be more efficient and look
more responsible with taxpayer dollars. In Kearns, they opened up the ambulance at Station
107 in January, and it has taken a huge burden off the ambulance running out of Station 109.
The ladder truck out of 109 this last month ran 242 calls, in terms of heavy apparatus vehicles,
this is their second busiest piece of heavy apparatus in the organization. Usually, the
ambulance out of that station runs more calls than the ladder, but because of 107 being
opened the ambulance at Station 109 ran 47 calls in the last month; this is down about 100
calls from previous months. The ambulance at Station 107 in Oquirrh Shadows ran 105 calls.
They have been able to pick up many calls helping out the company at 109, and additionally
pick up about 60 more calls that would not have been possible before. He highlighted Captain
Lintz and his crew doing great work at South Kearns Elementary with a program called Adopt a
School. They help mentor the kids once a month with reading, presentations, first aid, home
safety, etc. There was a significant incident in the morning on January 15, where the strip mall
with Papa Johns burned down. That took quite a bit of resources with 5400 S shut down, and
they appreciated the help from UPD and UDOT during that time. Fire School 101 is on March



              City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
21, from 6:30am to 4:30pm and he asked for the names of those participating to be sent to him
ASAP.

   D. Unified Police Department (UPD) - Chief Hughes

Lt. Nelson shared that during the fire incident mentioned by the UFA, there was an officer
injured while crossing a street blocked off for safety. The officer has received lots of support
and he is doing well. In terms of UPD manpower, they are in a good position with two more
officers on the road who have transferred from other communities. They will be submitting
awards for officers based on last year’s activities soon, and he shared some of the
accomplishments of the Officer of the Year who was unable to attend tonight.

   E. Kearns Community Council - Roger Snow

Shared the council’s calendar, noting there would be no Fire, Water and Ice event this year,
rather they will be having monthly smaller events. The Hometown Days Celebration events will
be different this year as well but will still include a parade. The Easter Egg Hunt will be the first
event on April 19 at 9:00 am at Oquirrh Park.

9. Other Business

   A. Future Agenda Business

Council Member Snow moved to recess the City Council Meeting and move to a Closed
Session to discuss the highlighted topics below. Council Member Butterfield seconded
the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

10. Closed Session if Needed as Allowed Pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-205

   A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health of an
      individual
   B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation
   C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property
   D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and/or
   E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

11. Council Business

   A. Authorize Mayor to Enter into a Lease Agreement with Granite School District for
      Oquirrh Hills Elementary School

Council Member Snow moved to authorize the mayor to enter into a lease agreement
with Granite School District as described above. Council Member Butterfield seconded
the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

12. Adjourn



              City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Council Member Snow moved to adjourn the February 10, 2025 City Council Meeting.
Council Member Butterfield seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.


The February 10, 2025 meeting adjourned at 8:50 PM

This is a true and correct copy of the February 10, 2025 Town Council Meeting Minutes,
which were approved on March 10, 2025.


Attest:

                                                         Kelly Bush, Mayor
Diana Baun, City Recorder




            City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
PROPOSED BUDGET-Kearns Community Council-2025

Administrative Account                              Allocation
Website Management                              $        1,000.00
Licenses and Permits                            $          150.00
Office Supplies and Office Expenses             $          800.00
Dues and Insurance                              $        1,000.00
Printing                                        $          300.00
Promotions                                      $       10,700.00
Postage and P.O. Box                            $          300.00
Advertising/Banners/Flyers                      $        2,000.00
Equipment                                       $          500.00
Rent Storage shed and Trailer Storage           $        2,500.00
Total                                           $       19,250.00

Special Projects Account                            Allocation
Equipment/Supplies for KCC Events               $        2,500.00
Hometown Days Celebration                       $       26,500.00
Holiday Festival-Oval                           $        2,000.00
World Speed Skating/Kearns Comm Day             $        3,000.00
Easter Egg Hunt                                 $        3,500.00
Night Out Against Crime                         $        4,000.00
KHS Homecoming                                  $          500.00
Kearns Hero Recognition Dinner                  $        3,000.00
Movie Night-KOPFC                               $        1,500.00
Flag Retirement                                 $          500.00
Council Shirts                                  $          500.00
Thanksgiving in a Box-KHS                       $        1,300.00
Christmas on 54th                               $        4,500.00
Stakeholder Event Partnerships                  $        4,100.00
Total                                           $       57,400.00

Grand Total                                     $      76,650.00
                                  KEARNS CITY COUNCIL

       RESOLUTION NO. R2025-04                          DATE: March 10, 2025

       A RESOLUTION AMENDING THE PURCHASING POLICY FOR THE CITY OF
                              KEARNS

        WHEREAS, the City of Kearns (“Kearns”) is a municipality and political subdivision of
the State of Utah; and

        WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-6-122 requires each municipality to adopt purchasing
policies to guide the City in the purchase of goods and services; and

       WHEREAS, on May 14, 2018, the Kearns Council (“Council”) adopted Resolution No.
18-05-01 to establish purchasing policies for Kearns; and

       WHEREAS, the Council desires to update and amend its purchasing policy to reflect
Kearns’ conversion from a metro township to a city on May 1, 2024, to update the policy’s purchase
thresholds, and to make other amendments.

     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE KEARNS CITY COUNCIL:

       1.     Adoption of Purchasing Policy. Resolution No. 18-5-01 is repealed in its entirety
and replaced with the purchasing policy (“Policy”) attached to this Resolution.

        2.      Direction to Mayor and Staff. the Mayor and staff are authorized and directed to
take such steps as may be needed: (a) for this Resolution to become effective under Utah law; and
(b) to finalize and post the Resolution to Municode, including but not limited to making non-
substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.

       3.      Purchasing Agent. The Council authorizes the Mayor as the purchasing agent for
the purposes of the Policy until such time as Kearns hires a city manager, at which point the city
manager shall serve as the purchasing agent.

       4.      Effective Date. This Resolution shall take effect immediately.


                                 [Execution on following page]
       APPROVED and ADOPTED this 10th day of March 2025.

KEARNS CITY COUNCIL




By: ____________________

Kelly Bush, Mayor

ATTEST:



By: ____________________

Diana Baun, City Recorder



KEARNS CITY COUNCIL VOTE:

Council Member Bush        voting ___
Council Member Butterfield voting ___
Council Member Peterson voting ___
Council Member Snow        voting ___
Council Member Schaeffer voting ___




                                        2
            PURCHASING POLICY OF THE CITY OF KEARNS

                             Adopted May 14, 2018
                            Amended March 10, 2025

I.   GENERAL PROVISIONS

     A. Purposes. The underlying purposes of this purchasing policy (“Policy”) are to:

        1. Ensure the fair and equitable treatment of all persons who wish to or do conduct
           business within the City of Kearns (“City”).

        2. Provide for the greatest possible economy in City procurement activities.

        3. Foster effective broad-based competition within the free enterprise system to
           ensure that the City shall receive the best possible service or product at the
           lowest possible price.

     B. Compliance.

        1. This Policy shall not prevent the City from complying with the terms and
           conditions of any grant, gift, or bequest that is otherwise consistent with law.

        2. When procurement involves the expenditure of federal assistance funds, the
           City shall comply with applicable federal law and regulations.

     C. Definitions.

        1. “Business” means any corporation, partnership, individual, sole proprietorship,
           joint stock company, joint venture, or any other private legal entity.

        2. “Change order” means a written order signed by the purchasing agent, directing
           the contractor to suspend work or make changes, which the appropriate clauses
           of the contract authorize the purchasing agent to order without the consent of
           the contractor or any written alteration in specifications, delivery point, rate of
           delivery, period of performance, price, quantity, or other provisions of any
           contract accomplished by mutual action of the parties to the contract.

        3. “Contract” means any City agreement for the procurement or disposal of
           supplies, services, or construction.

        4. “Invitation for bids” means all documents, whether attached or incorporated by
           reference, used for soliciting bids.

        5. “Person” means any business, individual, union, committee, club, other
           organization, or group of individuals.
           6. “Procurement” means buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, leasing with and
              option to purchase, or otherwise acquiring any supplies, construction, or other
              services.

           7. “Procurement Item” means any supplies, construction, or other services that the
              City may acquire pursuant to this Policy.

           8. “Purchasing agent” means the person duly authorized by the Kearns City
              Council to enter into and administer contracts and make written determinations
              with respect thereto.

           9. “Purchase description” means the words used in a solicitation to describe the
              supplies, services or construction to be purchased, and includes specifications
              attached to or made a part of the solicitation.

           10. “Request for proposals” means all documents, whether attached or incorporated
               by reference, used for soliciting proposals.

           11. “Sole Source Procurement” means a procurement without competition pursuant
               to a determination by the purchasing agent under Section III.A.4 that there is
               only one source for the procurement item.

II.    PURCHASING AGENT

The Kearns City Council shall appoint a purchasing agent, who shall be responsible to make
procurements, solicit bids and proposals, enter into and administer contracts, and make
written purchasing determinations for the City in accordance with this Policy and in
accordance with applicable law.

III.   SOURCE SELECTION AND CONTRACT FORMATION - GENERAL
       PROVISIONS

       A. Purchase not requiring sealed bids.

           1. Small Purchases: Small purchases costing less than $________in total, shall not
              require bids of any type. (Purchases shall not be artificially divided to constitute
              a small purchase under this section.)

           2. Purchases Requiring Telephone Bids: Purchases costing more than $_________
              but less than $________ in total, shall require three (3) telephone bids.

           3. State Contracts: Purchases made through the cooperative purchasing contracts
              administered by the State Division of Purchasing or other governmental entity
              which has applied its purchasing and procurement policies.

                                             4
   4. Sole Source Procurement: Purchases made from a sole-source provider if the
      purchasing agent determines in writing that a sole source procurement is needed
      for one or more of the following reasons. The purchasing agent shall also ensure
      that the terms of the contract, including price and delivery, are in the best
      interests of the City.

             i.   There is only one source for the procurement item;

            ii.   The transitional costs are a significant consideration in selecting the
                  procurement item and the results of a cost-benefit analysis
                  demonstrate that transitional costs are unreasonable or cost-
                  prohibitive, and that the award of a contract without engaging in a
                  standard procurement process is in the best interest of the City; or

           iii.   The award of a contact is under circumstances that make awarding
                  the contract through a standard procurement process impractical and
                  not in the best interest of the City.

   5.   Emergency Purchases. Purchases required during an emergency, i.e., an
        eminent threat to the public’s health, welfare, or safety. However, as much
        competition as practical should be obtained; and, such purchases should be
        limited to amounts necessary to the resolution of the emergency. The
        purchasing agent shall also document in writing the nature of the emergency
        that required the emergency purchases and the actions taken to procure the
        procurement item. The purchasing agent shall notify the Council as soon as
        reasonably possible of the need for, amount of, and nature of any emergency
        purchase made pursuant to this subsection. f

   6.   Publication. If the City does not use competitive sealed bidding for a
        procurement exceeding $[insert number from B.1 below], it shall provide
        notice of the procurement pursuant to Utah Code § 63G-6a-802.

B. Purchases Requiring Sealed Bids.

   1. General. All contracts for a procurement item with an estimated value that is
      more than $_____ shall be awarded by competitive sealed bidding except as
      otherwise provided by this Policy.

   2. Invitation for Bids. An invitation for bids shall be issued when a contract is to
      be awarded by competitive sealed bidding. The invitation shall include:

             i.   A description of the procurement item that the City seeks;




                                     5
          ii.   Instructions for submitting a bid, including the deadline for
                submitting a bid;
         iii.   The objective criteria that the City will use to evaluate bids;

          iv.   Information about the time and manner of opening bids; and

          v.    Terms and conditions that the City intends to include in a contract
                resulting from the bidding process.

3.    Publication. The Procurement Agent shall publish an invitation for bids in
     accordance with the requirements of Utah Code § 63G-6a-112, meaning that
     the Procurement Agent shall publish the bid at least seven (7) days prior to the
     date set forth therein for the opening of bids on the City’s website or on a
     website owned, managed by, or provided by the State of Utah for the posting of
     public procurement notices. Procurement agent may, but is not required to,
     public the invitation for bids in a newspaper of general circulation within
     Kearns. The Procurement Agent may reduce the seven (7) day period described
     in this subsection in accordance with Utah Code § 63G-6a-112.

4. Opening of Bids. Bids shall be opened publicly in the presence of one or more
   witnesses at the time and place designated in the invitations for bids. The
   amount of each bid and any other relevant information, together with the name
   of each bidder, shall be recorded. The record and each bid shall be open to
   public inspection.

5. Acceptance of Bids. Bids shall be unconditionally accepted without alternation
   or correction, except as authorized in this policy. Bids shall be evaluated based
   on the requirements set forth in the invitation for bids.

6. Corrections and Withdrawals of Bids. Correction or withdrawal of inadvertently
   erroneous bids before or after award, or cancellation of awards or contracts
   based on such bid mistakes, shall be permitted. After bid opening no changes in
   bid prices or other provisions of bids prejudicial to the interest of the City of
   fair competition shall be permitted. All decisions to permit the correction or
   withdrawal of bids or to cancel awards or contracts based on bid mistakes shall
   be supported by a written determination made by the purchasing agent.

7. Contract Negotiation and Awards. The contract shall be awarded with
   reasonable promptness, by written notice, to the lowest bidder whose bid meets
   the requirements and criteria set forth in the invitation for bids, subject to the
   purchasing agent concluding any negotiations that may be needed to finalize
   the contract.

8. Construction Contracts. The City shall follow the procedures contained in Utah
   Code § 11-39-101 et seq. for the letting of contracts for the construction of
   building improvements or public works projects as defined therein and any

                                  6
       provision of this policy that conflicts with the provisions of Utah Code § 11-39-
       101 et seq. shall not apply to the letting of contracts covered by this chapter of
       state law.

C. Prior Council Authorization. The purchasing agent shall secure the Council’s
   prior authorization before purchasing a procurement item that is not a small
   purchase under Section III.A.1 or an emergency purchase under Section III.A.5.

D. Cancellation and Rejection of Bids. An invitation for bids, a request for proposals,
   or other solicitations may be canceled, or any or all bids or proposals may be
   rejected, in whole or in part, as may be specified in the solicitation, when it is in the
   best interests of the City. The reasons shall be made part of the contract file.

E. Use of Competitive Sealed Proposals in lieu of Bids (Requests for Proposals).

   1. Competitive Sealed Proposals. When the purchasing agent determines in
      writing that the use of competitive sealed bidding is either not practicable or not
      advantageous to the City, a contract may be entered into by competitive sealed
      proposals. Competitive sealed proposals are most appropriately used for
      professional service-type contracts.

   2. Solicitation of Competitive Sealed Proposals.

               i.   The request for proposals shall state the relative importance of price
                    and other evaluating factors;

             ii.    Proposals shall be solicited through a request for proposals; and

             iii.   Public notice of the request for proposals shall be given at least ten
                    (10) days prior to the advertised date of the opening of the proposals.

   3. Opening of Competitive Sealed Proposals. Proposals shall be opened to avoid
      disclosure of contents to competing offerors during the process of negotiation.
      A register of proposals shall be prepared and shall be open for public inspection
      after contract award.

   4. Fair and Equal Treatment. Offerors shall be accorded fair and equal treatment
      with respect to any opportunity for discussion and revision of proposals, and
      revisions may be permitted after submissions and prior to award for the purpose
      of obtaining best and final offers. In conduction discussions, there shall be no
      disclosure of any information derived from proposals submitted by competing
      offerors.

   5. Awards for Competitive Sealed Proposals. Awards shall be made to the person
      whose proposal is determined, in writing, to be the most advantageous to the
      City, taking into consideration price and the evaluation factors set forth in the
                                       7
             request for proposals. No other factors or criteria shall be used in the evaluation.
             The contract file shall contain the basis on which the award is made.

      F. Architect-Engineer Services. Architect-engineer services are qualification-based
         procurements. Requests for such services should be publicly announced. Contracts
         should be negotiated by the Procurement Agent based on demonstrated competence
         at fair and reasonable prices.

      G. Determination of Non-responsibility of Bidder. Determination of non-
         responsibility of a bidder or offeror shall be made in writing. The unreasonable
         failure of a bidder or offeror to promptly supply information in connection with an
         inquiry with respect to responsibility may be grounds for a determination of non-
         responsibility with respect to the bidder or offeror. Information furnished by a
         bidder or offeror pursuant to this section shall not be disclosed outside of the
         purchasing division without prior written consent by the bidder or offeror.

      H. Cost-Plus-A-Percentage-Of-Cost Contracts Prohibited. Subject to the
         limitations of this section, any type of contract which shall promote the best
         interests of the City may be used, provided that the use of a cost-plus-a-percentage-
         of-cost contract is prohibited. A cost-reimbursement contract may be used only
         when a determination is made in writing that such contract is likely to be less costly
         to the City than any other type or that it is impracticable to obtain the supplies,
         services, or construction, required except under such a contract.


IV.   APPEALS

      A. Filing of Appeals. Any actual or prospective bidder, offeror, or contractor who
         is aggrieved in connection with the solicitation or award of a contract may
         appeal to the purchasing agent. An appeal shall be submitted in writing within
         five (5) business days after the aggrieved person knows or should have known
         of the facts.

      B. Written Decision Required. The purchasing agent shall promptly issue a
         written decision regarding any appeal, if it is not settled by a mutual agreement.
         The decision shall state the reasons for the action taken and inform the protestor,
         contractor, or prospective contractor of the right to appeal to the City Council.

      C. Final Action. A written decision issued by the purchasing agent shall constitute the
         City’s final administrative action on an appeal.

V.    ETHICS IN PUBLIC CONTRACTING

      A. Conflicts of Interest Prohibited. No person involved in making procurement
         decisions may have personal investments in any business entity which shall create
         a substantial conflict between their private interests and their public duties. The

                                            8
         procurement agent and all applicable City officials, staff, and contractors shall
         comply with the City’s ethics and nepotism ordinances, policies, and other appliable
         requirements when making procurement decisions or otherwise implementing this
         Policy.

      B. Penalties. In accordance with appliable state law, any person involved in making
         procurement decisions is guilty of a felony if the person asks, receives, or offers to
         receive any emolument, gratuity, contribution, loan, or reward, or any promise
         thereof, either for the person s own use or the use or benefit of any other person or
         organization from any person or organization interested in selling to the City.

VI.   Miscellaneous.

      A. Successor Statutes. Any statute referred to in this Policy shall be deemed to include
         that statute as amended, restated, and/or replaced from time to time, and any
         successor legislation to the same general intent and effect.

      B. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
         ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction,
         such decision shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this Policy.




                                            9
                                  KEARNS CITY COUNCIL

              ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-06__                    DATE: March 10, 2025

         AN ORDINANCE CREATING THE CITY OF KEARNS COMMUNITY
                        REINVESTMENT AGENCY

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Kearns, Utah (respectively, the “Council” and “Kearns”)
has determined that it is in the best interest of Kearns to undertake project area development in
such areas of Kearns as may become necessary or desirable; and

       WHEREAS, the Council intends that project area development and related activities be
undertaken within Kearns be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Title 17C of the Utah
Code, the “Limited Purpose Local Government Entities – Community Reinvestment Agency Act”
as amended and under any successor statutes (the “Act”); and

       WHEREAS, Section 17C-1-201.5 of the Act authorizes the legislative body of a
community to create a community reinvestment agency for the purposes of undertaking or
promoting economic development within the geographic boundaries of the agency, which shall be
coterminous with the boundaries of the community creating the agency, or as otherwise provided
by the Act.

     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE KEARNS CITY COUNCIL AS
FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.    Pursuant to the provisions of Section 17C-1-201.5 of the Act, the Council
hereby creates a community reinvestment agency (the “Agency”), contingent upon the issuance
by the Utah Lieutenant Governor of a certificate of creation under Section 67-1a-6.5 of the Utah
Code.

      Section 2.    The official name of the Agency is the “City of Kearns Community
Reinvestment Agency.”

       Section 3.    The geographic boundaries of the Agency are and will be coterminous with
the geographic boundaries of Kearns.

       Section 4.    Upon creation, the Agency will be vested with all the powers set forth in
the Act, as may be amended from time to time, and as otherwise provided by law.

       Section 5.       The governing body of the Agency will be a Board consisting of the
members of the Council as may serve from time to time on the Council (the “Agency Board”).
Any change in the composition of the Council will automatically and without any further action
required constitute a similar change in the composition of the Agency Board.
      Section 6.    The Council, acting as the Agency Board, will have the power to adopt and
amend governing documents for the Agency.

        Section 7.     Within ten (10) days of the adoption of this Ordinance, Kearns will cause
to be prepared and filed with the Utah Lieutenant Governor a notice of impending boundary action
(the “Notice”) as required by Section 17C-1-201.5(2)(a) of the Act. The Notice must comply with
the requirements of Utah Code Ann. Section 67-1a-6.5(3). The appropriate officials of Kearns are
authorized and directed to sign and seal the Notice upon its proper preparation.

        Section 8.      Upon the issuance by the Utah Lieutenant Governor of a certificate of
creation under Utah Code Ann. Section 67-1a-6.5, the Agency will be created and incorporated.
Upon the Utah Lieutenant Governor’s issuance of a certificate of creation, Kearns Recorder will
submit or cause to be submitted to the County Recorder the original Notice, the original certificate
of creation, and a certified copy of this Ordinance.

       Section 9.     The Mayor and Kearns staff are authorized and directed to take such actions
as may be necessary to implement this ordinance.

       Section 10. This ordinance shall take effect as soon as it is posted pursuant to Utah Code
§10-3-711, deposited, and recorded in the office of the Kearns City Recorder.



                                  [Execution on following page]




                                                 2
           ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the Kearns City Council
        th
on this 10 day of March 2025.

CITY OF KEARNS


___________________________________
By: Kelly Bush, Mayor


 ATTEST:                                       APPROVED AS TO FORM:



 ________________________________              ____________________________
 Diana Baun, City Recorder                     City Attorney

Voting:
Council Member Bush        voting _____
Council Member Butterfield voting _____
Council Member Peterson voting _____
Council Member Schaeffer voting _____
Council Member Snow        voting _____


   (Complete as Applicable)
   Date ordinance summary was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code
   §10-3-711:__________________________________________________________________
   Effective date of ordinance: ____________________________________________________




                                           3
                                   SUMMARY OF
                                  CITY OF KEARNS
                             ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-06

       On March 10, 2025, the Kearns City Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-O-06 to create
the City of Kearns Community Reinvestment Agency in accordance with Title 17C of the Utah
Code.

CITY OF KEARNS


___________________________________
By: Kelly Bush, Mayor


 ATTEST:                                        APPROVED AS TO FORM:



 ________________________________               ___________________________
 Diana Baun, City Recorder                      City Attorney

Voting:
Council Member Bush        voting ______
Council Member Butterfield voting ______
Council Member Peterson voting ______
Council Member Schaeffer voting ______
Council Member Snow        voting ______

A complete copy of Ordinance No 2025-O-06 is available in the office of the Kearns City
Recorder, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.
