                                    CITY OF KEARNS
                                COUNCIL MEETING AGENDA
                                      April 13, 2026

                                           Element Event Center
                                            5658 Cougar Lane
                                            Kearns, UT 84118

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Kearns City Council will hold a meeting on the 13th day of
April 2026 to begin at 6:00 p.m., in the North Ballroom of the Element Event Center, located at 5658 Cougar
Ln., Kearns, Utah 84118 as follows:

**Portions of the meeting may be closed for reasons allowed by statue. Motions relating to any of the items
listed below, including final action, may be taken.

                                            PUBLIC MEETING

   1.   CALL TO ORDER
   2.   DETERMINE QUORUM
   3.   PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
   4.   VISITING OFFICIALS

    5. CITIZEN PUBLIC INPUT (Limited to 3 Minutes Per Person)
Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for a public hearing on this evening's
agenda should fill out a “comment card” located at the entrance. Those signing up to speak will be called up
to speak by the Mayor. Those invited forward shall step-up to the microphone and give both their name and
address for the record. Public comment is limited to three (3) minutes per person.
For those unable to attend in person, members of the public may submit public comments prior to the meeting
for the City Council to consider. Please send those to the City Recorder, Diana Baun, at dbaun@msd.utah.gov
before 3:00 PM on the date of the meeting.

                                             ORDER OF BUSINESS:
   6. CONSENT AGENDA
        A. Approval of City Council Meeting Minutes
           a. March 10, 2025 City Council Meeting
           b. March 9, 2026 City Council Meeting
        B. Acknowledgment of Receipt – Monthly Financial Report

   7. STAKEHOLDER REPORTS
        A. Unified Fire Authority – Chief Tyler Lintz
           a. 2026 Fire Restriction Areas
        B. Unified Police Department – Chief Levi Hughes
           a. UPD 2026-27 Budget
        C. Kearns Improvement District (KID) Updates – Greg Anderson
        D. Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District – Evan Tyrrell and Renee Plant

   8. WORKSHOP (Discussion only) - None

   9. PRESENTATION ITEMS
        A. Updates on Economic Development Outreach - Langdon Group
                                                      1
        B. City Code Restatement Project Updates – Nathan Bracken, City Attorney
        C. MyKearns Community Coalition – Don Bartlett

    10. COUNCIL BUSINESS – ACTION ITEMS (Discussion/Motion)
        A. Discussion and Potential Approval of Ordinance 2026-O-02, Amending Side Yard Setback
           Requirements For the R-1-6, R-1-7 and R-1-8 Single-Family Residential Zones - Jeff Miller,
           Planner
        B. Discussion and Potential Approval of Ordinance 2026-O-03, An Ordinance of the Kearns City
           Council Amending Chapter 2.56 of the Kearns Municipal Code to Establish the Kearns Community
           Council as an Official Committee of the City for the Purpose of Planning and Implementing the
           City’s Planned Annual Civic Events – Nathan Bracken, City Attorney
        C. Discussion and Potential Approval of Resolution R2026-11, Authorizing Property Owners in
           Kearns to Participate in the C-PACE Program (Theddi Chappell available for questions)
        D. Discussion and Potential Approval of Ordinance 2026-O-04, Enacting the Community Clean
           Energy Program – Council Member Chrystal Butterfield
        E. Discussion and Potential Action Regarding Job Description for a City Administrator – Nathan
           Bracken, City Attorney
        F. Discussion and Potential Action Regarding Description of a Contract Community Impact
           Coordinator – Mayor Valdez
        G. Discussion and Potential Action Regarding Description of a Contract Freelance Visual Storyteller –
           Mayor Valdez
        H. Discussion and Potential Action Regarding Description of a Contract IT Services Provider - Mayor
           Valdez


    11. OTHER BUSINESS
        A. Legislative Updates – Nathan Bracken, City Attorney

    12. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE §52-4-205
        A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health of an
           individual
        B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation
        C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property
        D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and/or
        E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

    13. ADJOURN
View the Kearns City Council Meeting LIVE on YouTube or at a later date by clicking the link below:

youtube.com/@KearnsCity
When: April 13, 2026, 06:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)
Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, in support
of the City of Kearns, will make reasonable accommodations for participation in the meeting. To request
assistance, please call (385) 377-9466 – TTY 711.
A copy of the foregoing agenda was posted at the following locations on the date posted below: Kearns City
website at https://kearns.utah.gov/ and the Utah Public Notice Website at https://www.utah.gov/pmn/. Pursuant
to State Law and Kearns Ordinance, Councilmembers may participate electronically. Pursuant to Utah Code §
52-4-205, parts of meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute.

POSTED ON: April 10, 2026

                                                       2
                          CITY OF KEARNS
                          CITY COUNCIL MEETING
                         MARCH 10, 2025, 6:00 PM
                         KEARNS LIBRARY - 4275 W 5345 S, KEARNS, UTAH 84118



                         **DRAFT MINUTES – UNAPPROVED**
                       KEARNS CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES

COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT:                              COUNCIL MEMBERS EXCUSED:
Kelly Bush, Mayor
Chrystal Butterfield, Council Member (via Zoom)
Patrick Schaeffer, Council Member
Alan Peterson, Council Member
Tina Snow, Council Member

STAFF PRESENT:
Diana Baun, Recorder
Nathan Bracken, City Attorney
Dan Torres, Economic Development Manager
Chad Anderson, Engineering
Lizel Allen, Engineering
Chief Levi Hughes, Unified Police Department
Chief Russell, Unified Fire Authority

Others Present:


1. CALL TO ORDER

Mayor Bush, presiding, called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM.

2. DETERMINE QUORUM

Mayor Bush announced that a quorum was present allowing the meeting to proceed.

3. VISITING PUBLIC OFFICIALS - None

4. CITIZEN PUBLIC INPUT – None

5. CONSENT AGENDA
   A. Approve Council Meeting Minutes

          1. August 12, 2024 City Council Meeting
          2. February 10, 2025 City Council Meeting

                                  KEARNS CITY COUNCIL
               MAYOR JESSE VALDEZ, COUNCIL MEMBER CHRYSTAL BUTTERFIELD,
           COUNCIL MEMBER LORRIN P. COLBY, JR., COUNCIL MEMBER LYNDSAY LONGTIN,
                           COUNCIL MEMBER PATRICK SCHAEFFER
                                                                                              Page 2 of 11
Kearns City Council
Kearns Public Library
March 10, 2025

Council Member Snow moved to approve the August 12, 2024 and February 10, 2025
City Council Meeting Minutes as published. Council Member Peterson seconded the
motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

The City Council discussed tabling Item 7A on tonight’s agenda and having a Workshop
Meeting to discuss the issue at another time. After discussion, the full council agreed to have
that Workshop Meeting on March 18 @ 6pm at the Kearns UPD Precinct.

6. COUNCIL BUSINESS – ACTION ITEMS

   A. Kearns Community Council Budget Request

Chief Levi Hughes explained that leadership within the city should recognize that the Unified
Police Department (UPD) functioned as an extension of the city itself, comparing it to shared
ownership of an organization. Chief Hughes stated that when city officials publicly criticized
UPD, they were effectively criticizing their own entity, which could create legal risks, including
litigation based on public statements. He described ongoing issues with misinformation and
negative discourse on social media, particularly on Facebook pages previously operated by
UPD. He reported that UPD had first consolidated multiple precinct pages into a single page,
and later disabled public comments entirely due to unproductive and hostile interactions. Chief
Hughes emphasized that the department’s goal was to maintain factual communication while
avoiding hosting harmful or misleading discussions. He advised city leadership to address
concerns privately through direct communication rather than public forums to reduce legal
exposure.

Mayor Kelly Bush acknowledged Chief Hughes’ concerns and expanded the discussion to
include issues with the Kearns community Facebook page, describing it as increasingly
volatile, with frequent arguments, threats, and negative behavior. Mayor Bush stated that
despite efforts to separate the city and Community Council from the page, the public continued
to associate it with official city operations. She noted that the page had contributed to harmful
discourse, including reactions to a recent tragic incident involving a young boy, and ongoing
criticism of law enforcement. She explained that because some Community Council members
served as administrators or moderators of the page, the city would require them to step down
from those roles as a condition of moving forward with funding. Mayor Bush clarified that
individuals could still participate on the page as private citizens but not in an official or affiliated
capacity.

City Attorney Nathan Bracken reinforced that confusion persisted among residents who
believed the K-Town page was an official city page, leading to misdirected communications
such as franchise requests. Mr. Bracken stated that disclaimers had not resolved the issue and
that the overlap between Community Council involvement and the page contributed to the
misperception. He clarified that the city was not attempting to shut down the page or limit
speech, but rather to eliminate the appearance of official endorsement by requiring Community
Council members to disengage from administrative roles.




               City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
                                                                                              Page 3 of 11
Kearns City Council
Kearns Public Library
March 10, 2025

Mayor Kelly Bush confirmed that the intent was to fully separate both the City Council and
Community Council from the page to improve public perception and promote a more positive
image of the community. She encouraged the Community Council to develop its own official
page, suggesting it could provide more constructive engagement and communication.

Paula Larsen, speaking as a Community Council representative, stated that a Community
Council Facebook page already existed but required administrative updates. Ms. Larsen
indicated efforts were underway to regain control of that page and transition management to
current council members.

Mayor Kelly Bush supported this effort and reiterated that creating and maintaining an official
Community Council page could better serve residents. She emphasized the importance of
timely communication and suggested leveraging individuals with experience managing social
media pages.

A public comment from a resident named Jennifer explained that residents often used the K-
Town page because it provided quick responses, whereas official channels lacked
responsiveness. She stated that improving response times on official platforms could reduce
reliance on unofficial pages.

Nathan Bracken clarified that publicly funded pages were not appropriate venues for open
back-and-forth discussions due to the nature of government communication. He expressed a
preference against having a Facebook presence but acknowledged its role in public
engagement.

Council Member Tina Snow stated that the city had reestablished a Facebook page with
limited functionality, allowing messages but not public comments, to avoid prior issues with
argumentative exchanges. She noted that staff monitored and responded to messages
directly.

Additional discussion addressed the ownership of the K-Town page, confirming it was privately
owned by a former Community Council member, and therefore outside city control.
Suggestions such as rebranding the page were raised but acknowledged as unenforceable.
The discussion then transitioned to budget matters. Mayor Kelly Bush stated that the
Community Council had requested $76,650 (Attachment B), reflecting a modest increase of
approximately $700 from the previous year, and confirmed that the figures aligned with prior
budgets.

Council Member Patrick Schaeffer asked about specific budget items, including the absence of
the traditional “Fire and Ice Night” event and clarification on a “Holiday Festival at The Oval.”
Paula Larsen confirmed that the Fire and Ice Night event would not take place that year and
explained that the holiday festival would occur in December.




               City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
                                                                                              Page 4 of 11
Kearns City Council
Kearns Public Library
March 10, 2025

Council Member Al Peterson and other council members indicated they had no further
questions. The conversation concluded with general agreement on the funding structure and
acknowledgment of the proposed changes related to social media separation.

Council Member Snow moved to approve the Community Council’s budget request with
the condition that the Community Council members serving as admins on the K-Town
Facebook Page step down from their admin roles. Council Member Peterson seconded
the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

Mayor Kelly Bush stated that once confirmation was received from the Community Council
agreeing to the required separation from the K-Town page, things would proceed for funding
distribution. She explained that the total approved amount would be divided into two equal
payments, with the first distribution of $38,325 issued upon confirmation and the second
distribution of $38,325 scheduled for release at the end of June or the beginning of July 2025.

Paula Larsen asked whether the confirmation needed to be submitted in writing. Mayor Bush
responded that some type of confirmation was required and stated that the format could be
determined by the Community Council, as long as the commitment was formally documented.

   B. Consider Resolution R2025-04, Purchasing Policy Amendments

City Attorney Nathan Bracken explained that the city’s current purchasing policy, originally
prepared by former legal counsel David Church in 2018, had not been updated in several
years. Mr. Bracken presented a revised draft policy that introduced clearer definitions and
procedures, including a formal definition of sole source procurement based on state code,
clarification of when council approval was required, and alignment with state publication
requirements. He also reaffirmed that the mayor would continue serving as the purchasing
agent unless a city manager were hired, in which case that responsibility would transfer. He
noted that the draft did not yet include updated dollar thresholds for purchasing categories and
emphasized the need for council direction due to inflation and rising costs. Mr. Bracken
outlined the existing structure, where purchases under $10,000 required no competitive
bidding, purchases between $10,001 and $40,000 required two to three telephone bids, and
purchases above $40,000 required a formal bidding process.

Mayor Kelly Bush stated that the thresholds should be increased, citing practical challenges
with current limits, particularly related to property abatements and cleanups. She explained
that these situations often required frequent and sometimes urgent action, and the existing
thresholds created inefficiencies by requiring repeated approvals for routine or time-sensitive
work.

Nathan Bracken and the council discussed adjusting the thresholds, and Cheryle Hatch
indicated that in comparable entities, purchases under $50,000 did not require board approval.
Based on this discussion, Nathan Bracken proposed setting the small purchase threshold at
$50,000, meaning purchases below that amount would not require council approval. The




               City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
                                                                                              Page 5 of 11
Kearns City Council
Kearns Public Library
March 10, 2025

intermediate tier would cover $50,001 to $100,000 and require multiple bids, while purchases
above $100,000 would go through a formal bidding process.

Mayor Kelly Bush supported the proposed changes, reiterating that frequent abatement work
often involved costs approaching these thresholds and required flexibility to respond quickly.
She explained that emergency situations or specialized services, such as those involving
hazardous materials, could necessitate higher-cost contracts that would otherwise require
repeated council meetings under the previous policy.

Nathan Bracken clarified that municipalities had discretion in setting purchasing thresholds
under state law, unlike state agencies, which followed standardized limits. He emphasized that
while the policy incorporated state procurement language for consistency and legal
defensibility, the city retained flexibility to tailor thresholds to its operational needs.

Mayor Kelly Bush added that the city typically worked with vendors from the state-approved
contractor list and noted that staff had been trained to obtain multiple bids when appropriate.
She stated that code enforcement personnel routinely contacted several companies for quotes
and maintained documentation of those communications for recordkeeping purposes.

Council Member Snow moved to approve Resolution R2025-04, Amending the City’s
Purchasing Policy per the discussion above. Council Member Schaeffer seconded the
motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

   C. Consider Resolution R2025-05, Adopting an Interlocal Agreement Between the City of
      Kearns and Salt Lake County for Surveyor Services

Council Member Snow moved to approve Resolution R2025-05, Adopting an Interlocal
Agreement between the City of Kearns and Salt Lake County Surveyor Services, as
discussed tonight. Council Member Schaeffer seconded the motion; vote was 5-0,
unanimous in favor.

   D. Consider Ordinance 2025-O-06, An Ordinance Creating the City of Kearns Community
      Reinvestment Agency

Adam Long introduced himself as an attorney working with the same firm as Nathan Bracken
and explained their specialization in redevelopment law, specifically under Utah’s Community
Reinvestment Agency Act. Mr. Long described this framework as the primary tool available to
cities and counties to pursue economic development goals. A Community Reinvestment
Agency (CRA), also referred to as a redevelopment agency (RDA), had authority to perform
actions that the city itself could not, such as offering property at a discount to incentivize
development or using property tax revenue to support targeted projects.

Adam Long stated that the ordinance before the council represented the formal action required
to establish the City of Kearns Community Reinvestment Agency as a separate legal entity. He
clarified that the governing board of this new entity would consist of the same individuals



               City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
                                                                                              Page 6 of 11
Kearns City Council
Kearns Public Library
March 10, 2025

serving on the City Council, who would act in a different capacity when conducting RDA
business. He explained that this structure was required under state law and did not present a
conflict of interest, as it was the standard model for such agencies.

Adam Long outlined that adoption of the ordinance would initiate the legal formation process,
including coordination with the lieutenant governor’s office to finalize the entity. He noted that
once established, the agency would introduce additional administrative responsibilities, though
support from the Municipal Services District staff would help manage those obligations. He
emphasized that the creation of the agency would enable the city to utilize economic
development tools aligned with its specific goals and priorities.

Mayor Kelly Bush stated that the proposal had been in development for a significant period
and invited questions from council members. Council Member Tina Snow indicated no
questions. Dan Torres expressed support for the initiative and described it as an important first
step after a long period of preparation.

Adam Long concluded by reiterating that the creation of the Community Reinvestment Agency
represented a key opportunity for the city to pursue targeted economic development strategies,
acknowledging that funding considerations would remain an important factor in
implementation.

Council Member Snow moved to approve Ordinance 2025-O-06, Creating the City of
Kearns Community Reinvestment Agency, as discussed tonight. Council Member
Schaeffer seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

7. WORKSHOP

   A. Compensation Wages City Council Members

Tabled to Workshop Meeting on March 18, 2025 at 6:00 pm at the Kearns UPD Precinct.

   B. Capital Improvement Projects FY2026

Chad Anderson presented an overview of capital improvement projects under consideration for
the upcoming fiscal year beginning July 2025, including both ongoing “rollover” projects and
newly proposed initiatives. Chad Anderson explained that rollover projects consisted of
previously approved efforts that would continue into the next fiscal year, with remaining funds
carried forward. Mr. Anderson described the 6200 South sound wall project, which currently
had $873,624 in American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funding to be rolled over. Mayor Kelly
Bush clarified that this funding was separate from a newly secured $3.2 million state
appropriation for the broader 6200 South project, noting that retaining the additional $800,000
provided flexibility for other uses. He emphasized that ARPA funds must be expended by the
end of 2026.

Chad Anderson outlined additional rollover projects, including the Northwest Avenue safety



               City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
                                                                                              Page 7 of 11
Kearns City Council
Kearns Public Library
March 10, 2025

improvement involving a raised crossing, the Cougar Lane project supported by a $2.8 million
federal grant and moving toward construction, and the 4050 West Bridge project, which was
already under construction and funded through state appropriations. Mayor Bush
acknowledged temporary inconveniences from road closures but stated the completed bridge
would be a significant improvement.

Chad Anderson reviewed the 4220 West sidewalk project, which had received a $131,000
grant with local matching funds. He explained that increased federal requirements had raised
project costs, particularly in design and compliance, and additional funding might be
necessary. He also discussed improvements near South Kearns Elementary, including ADA
ramps and raised crossings, as well as ongoing traffic calming efforts and pavement overlay
work.

Mayor Kelly Bush noted a pending federal funding request of approximately $5 million for
roadway improvements in the Heath Avenue area and surrounding streets, which, if approved,
would support extensive resurfacing and infrastructure upgrades. She indicated that no federal
transportation cuts had been announced at that time and that funding decisions were expected
soon.

Chad Anderson then presented new project proposals derived from community input. These
included a crosswalk with a rapid flashing beacon on Cougar Lane near a church and soccer
fields, which Mayor Bush stated had already been funded. He described a proposed median
extension on 4015 West near 5400 South to improve traffic safety by preventing unsafe left
turns into a busy commercial area. Council discussion and public input highlighted existing
congestion and safety concerns at that location, particularly near a 7-Eleven and adjacent
businesses.

Chad Anderson also addressed anticipated funding challenges for the 4220 West sidewalk
project, noting a potential shortfall of up to $400,000 due to federal compliance costs. He
explained that combining this project with other federally funded projects could reduce overall
expenses through shared design and construction processes.

Additional proposals included a traffic study and design work for 4420 West to address
excessive speeding, a corridor study for 5400 South to guide future improvements, a mobility
hub project, and installation of streetlights along Cougar Lane to improve visibility and
pedestrian safety. Public comment from Cheryle Hatch emphasized safety concerns in poorly
lit areas near apartment complexes, particularly for pedestrians.

8. Stakeholder Updates/Information

   A. Kearns Improvement District (KID)

Cheryle Hatch, serving as a board trustee for the Kearns Improvement District, shared
information about upcoming community events organized by the district. Ms. Hatch announced
that the district would host a “Localscapes” class on Saturday, April 19, from 9:30 to 10:30



               City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
                                                                                              Page 8 of 11
Kearns City Council
Kearns Public Library
March 10, 2025

a.m., followed by an Earth Day celebration at the district offices from 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
She explained that the Earth Day event would be open to the public and held at the district
offices located at 5350 West and 5400 South. The event would include educational
opportunities focused on water conservation, cost savings, and waste reduction. She stated
that attendees could also receive assistance with transitioning to paperless billing. Ms. Hatch
noted that the event would include family-friendly activities, a free paper shredding service,
and the presence of the El Rancho Grande food truck. She added that additional information
was available on the district’s website, including materials in both English and Spanish.

   B. Kearns Library

Lee Whiting addressed the council and community, first expressing condolences for Adam, a
community member who had recently died after being struck in a crosswalk. Mr. Whiting stated
that Adam had been well known and cared for by youth and staff at the library, particularly
among students who attended after-school programs. He described the library’s role in
supporting youth by providing food, conversation, and behavioral guidance in a supportive
environment.

Lee Whiting then provided an overview of the library’s operations and performance,
referencing an annual compliance report tied to the building’s financing. He explained that the
library facility had been constructed through a public-private partnership using new market tax
credits, allowing the county to build the facility without issuing bonds. The arrangement
functioned as a rent-to-own model, with payments contributing toward eventual ownership. He
reported key statistics from 2024, including circulation of 291,000 books, 180,035 visits, and
issuance of 1,796 library cards, 84% of which were to Kearns residents. He also noted 382
student cards issued and over 43,000 hours of technology use, including more than 36,000 Wi-
Fi sessions. Additional figures included 2,038 public meetings hosted at the library, at least 12
of which were City Council meetings, as well as distribution of 13,647 meals and snacks
through the Utah Food Bank program. Lee Whiting added that 17,188 individuals participated
in early learning programs, including 718 bilingual story times.

Lee Whiting discussed public feedback, noting that the library held a 4.6 out of 5 rating on
Google based on 241 reviews. He stated that staff responded to comments, particularly those
with concerns, and acknowledged ongoing challenges such as managing noise levels in a
busy, youth-oriented environment. He encouraged residents to provide feedback through
available surveys to inform an upcoming community assessment report. He then announced
an upcoming health fair scheduled for Saturday, April 26, from 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. at the
library. The event would include participation from community health organizations offering
information and support services. He added that, in partnership with the My Kearns coalition,
the event would also include a drug take-back initiative, allowing residents to safely dispose of
unused medications, likely through the library’s book drop system. He stated that the deadline
for organizations to participate in the event was April 15..

   C. Wasatch Front Waste Recycling District (WFWRD) – No updates
   D. Unified Fire Authority (UFA) – No updates



               City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
                                                                                              Page 9 of 11
Kearns City Council
Kearns Public Library
March 10, 2025

   E. Unified Police Department (UPD) - Chief Hughes

Chief Levi Hughes began a discussion of the upcoming Unified Police Department (UPD)
budget. He stated that the proposed budget included a request for three additional officers for
Kearns. This request followed prior reductions in staffing allocations during the separation
between the sheriff’s office and UPD, which required reallocating resources to shared services
and reducing local staffing levels below what Chief Hughes considered the minimum
necessary for effective operations. Chief Hughes stated that, despite reduced allocations,
staffing levels had appeared stable due to temporary adjustments, but those measures would
no longer be sustainable in the upcoming fiscal year. He emphasized that maintaining
adequate staffing was necessary to preserve recent progress in reducing crime, noting that
data over the past five years showed a continued downward trend in crime rates. He indicated
that a comprehensive data analysis was being prepared to demonstrate the impact of staffing
levels on public safety outcomes.

Chief Hughes explained that the requested increase would cost approximately $480,000 and
would be subject to approval through ongoing budget discussions with the UPD and SLVLESA
governing boards. Council Member Tina Snow asked about the increase compared to prior
budgets, and Chief Hughes clarified that while local precinct costs had decreased,
contributions to shared services had increased to support critical functions such as homicide
investigations, SWAT, and other specialized units. He also addressed questions regarding how
shared service costs were allocated among jurisdictions, noting that the distribution was based
on a formula that was periodically reviewed and adjusted. Mayor Kelly Bush acknowledged
that some allocation concerns were still under discussion. Chief Hughes further stated an
intention to request that the SLVLESA board allocate $200,000 toward buildout costs for a new
precinct facility. Levi Hughes explained that SLVLESA had previously provided funding for
facility improvements and that the request was based on anticipated infrastructure needs
associated with a long-term lease agreement, expected to span approximately 20 years. Levi
Hughes noted that exact costs were not yet finalized but estimated that $200,000 would be a
reasonable initial request.

Chief Hughes reviewed crime and activity data (Attachment A), stating that overall trends
continued to show decreases in most categories, with no significant increases. He noted that
traffic citations had declined, partly due to the elimination of a dedicated traffic unit and
reduced snow conditions compared to the previous year, which had resulted in fewer accidents
and related enforcement actions.

Council Member Tina Snow and Mayor Kelly Bush discussed community awareness of police
presence, noting that residents often shared officer locations on social media, which could
influence driver behavior.

In closing, Chief Hughes expressed appreciation for the Kearns Library and its longstanding
efforts to support youth in the community. He stated that the library’s programs, including
providing food and resources, had served as a model replicated across other libraries in the
county and commended staff for their contributions to community well-being.



               City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
                                                                                              Page 10 of 11
Kearns City Council
Kearns Public Library
March 10, 2025

   F. Kearns Community Council

Paula Larsen stated that the Community Council agreed with the policy discussed earlier
regarding separation from the K-Town Facebook page. Ms. Larsen acknowledged that some
council members might be dissatisfied with the decision but indicated that the council would
address those concerns internally. She explained that efforts had been made over several
years to clarify that the page was not officially affiliated with the city or Community Council, but
those distinctions had not been understood by the public, leading to the current decision to
formally separate.

Mayor Kelly Bush responded that the intent of the policy was not to upset anyone. Paula
Larsen reiterated that the issue had been discussed with the Community Council multiple
times prior to the meeting and should not come as a surprise. Ms. Larsen confirmed that the
council would comply with the requirement and proceed accordingly. She also stated that an
updated event schedule had been provided, with ongoing updates expected as plans evolved.
She reported that the Community Council was actively working to improve its official
communication channels, including developing a new Facebook page and updating its
website, which Paula Larsen described as currently inadequate.

Finally, Paula Larsen announced that there was a vacant seat on the Community Council
representing the south Kearns area and invited interested community members to apply.

9. Other Business

   A. Future Agenda Business - None

Council Member Snow moved to recess the City Council Meeting and move to a Closed
Session to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation. Council Member
Schaeffer seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

10. Closed Session if Needed as Allowed Pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-205

   A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health of an
      individual
   B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation
   C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property
   D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and/or
   E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

11. Adjourn

The March 10, 2025 meeting adjourned immediately following the adjournment of the Closed
Session noted above.




               City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
                                                                                              Page 11 of 11
Kearns City Council
Kearns Public Library
March 10, 2025

This is a true and correct copy of the March 10, 2025 Town Council Meeting Minutes,
which were approved on April 13, 2026.


Attest:

                                                            Jesse Valdez, Mayor
Diana Baun, City Recorder




               City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
                          CITY OF KEARNS
                          CITY COUNCIL MEETING
                          March 9, 2026, 6:00 PM
                          ELEMENT EVENT CENTER- 5658 COUGAR LN, KEARNS, UTAH 84118


                          **DRAFT MINUTES – UNAPPROVED**
                     CITY OF KEARNS COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
                                    March 9, 2026

COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT:                             COUNCIL MEMBERS EXCUSED:
Jesse Valdez, Mayor
Chrystal Butterfield, Council Member
Lyndsay Longtin, Council Member
Lorrin Colby, Jr., Council Member
Patrick Schaeffer, Council Member

STAFF PRESENT:
Nathan Bracken, City Attorney
Diana Baun, City Recorder
Sarah Leavitt, Deputy City Recorder
Chief Levi Hughes, Unified Police Department
Chief Tyler Lintz, Unified Fire Authority
Maridene Alexander, Communications Manager
Chad Anderson, Assistant Engineer
Richard Stephens, Assistant City Engineer
Lea Kingsley, Grant Coordinator


Others Present:

1. CALL TO ORDER

Mayor Jesse Valdez, presiding, called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM.

2. DETERMINE QUORUM

Mayor Jesse Valdez announced that a quorum was present allowing the meeting to proceed.

3. VISITING PUBLIC OFFICIALS - None


4. CITIZEN PUBLIC INPUT

Cassandra Hodges – Kearns Junior High PTA / Schools to Watch Recognition


                                CITY OF KEARNS COUNCIL
                MAYOR JESSE VALDEZ, COUNCIL MEMBER CHRYSTAL BUTTERFIELD,
            COUNCIL MEMBER LYNDSAY LONGTIN, COUNCIL MEMBER LORRIN COLBY, JR.,
                           COUNCIL MEMBER PATRICK SCHAEFFER
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 2
Element Event Center
March 9, 2026



Cassandra Hodges addressed the Council on behalf of the Kearns PTA. She explained that
“Schools to Watch” is a national program launched by the National Forum to identify high-
performing middle schools that are academically excellent, developmentally responsive, and
socially equitable. Selected schools must meet strict, research-based criteria evaluated
through an extensive self-study process. Ms. Hodges proudly announced that Kearns Junior
High has been placed on the Schools to Watch list and that she was among a small group of
parents invited to meet with the review team during the evaluation. She expressed deep pride
in the school’s teachers, staff, administration, and students, noting that the recognition reflects
a community-wide commitment to student success. Mayor Valdez thanked Ms. Hodges for
sharing the news.

Villa Sanchez – Kearns High School Debate Team
Vida Sanchez, co-captain of the Kearns High School Debate Team, addressed the Council
along with fellow captain Brax and teammate Deepa. She announced that the Kearns High
debate team had, for the first time in nearly 30 years, won first place at Regions and taken the
sweepstakes title. She further noted that two team members had qualified for nationals. The
team was scheduled to compete at the State Tournament at Brighton High School that is
coming Friday and Saturday.

Ms. Sanchez emphasized the strength and talent of the entire team, noting that nearly every
member had placed first at some point during the season. She asked the Council and
community not for funding, but for moral support — encouraging residents to spread the word,
attend tournaments as spectators, serve as judges, or donate via the team’s donation page
link. She described debate as a transformative activity that draws out confidence and intellect
in students who might not otherwise be recognized. Mayor Valdez thanked the students and
expressed pride in their youth leadership.

Chelsea Quarry – American Legion
Chelsea Quarry, representing the local American Legion post, addressed the Council. She was
accompanied by the post’s Commander, Second Vice, Sons of the American Legion
representative, and Auxiliary members. Ms. Quarry explained that the post, which has been
rooted in Kearns for over 75 years, is currently meeting at the Valley Bowling Lanes building at
3951 West 5400 South, and expressed a desire for the post to become more present and
active in the community.

She asked the Council for guidance on three areas: (1) how to get involved and partner with
city events, (2) whether there were opportunities to explore donations or joint activities, and (3)
how to reserve the Element Center for their district meetings, which are held on the third
Sunday of each month and bring together American Legion posts from across the Salt Lake
Valley. Mayor Valdez welcomed the inquiry and indicated the city would coordinate with Ms.
Quarry. City Recorder Diana Baun collected Ms. Quarry’s contact information to follow up.
Diana gave her card to have her send her email and contact information to get back to her.




                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 3
Element Event Center
March 9, 2026

5. CONSENT AGENDA
   A. Monthly Financial Report (Acknowledgment of Report)

Council Member Butterfield moved to have the council acknowledge receipt of the
monthly financial report as published. Council Member Colby seconded the motion;
vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

6. WORKSHOP
   A. MSD Management and Support of City Laptop Environment

Mark Schneider, IT Director for the Municipal Services District (MSD), presented an overview
of a proposal to transition Kearns City’s current laptop and email environment to the MSD’s
Microsoft-based infrastructure.

Mr. Schneider explained that the city’s current setup uses a basic Google Workspace option
for .gov email addresses that do not meet Utah state criteria for secure file sharing, and lacks
required auditing and logging capabilities. He outlined two alternatives: upgrading to Google
for Government at approximately $54/month plus Microsoft tools, or migrating fully to the
MSD’s Microsoft suite, which he recommended. Under the proposed migration, the city’s .gov
email domain and all email accounts would move to Microsoft, each council member would be
provided a Windows laptop (iPads and Macs cannot be supported in this environment), and a
SharePoint portal would be created to facilitate secure, state-compliant file sharing.

Mr. Schneider noted that the MSD partners with the Utah Cyber Security Center, DHS, and
CISA (Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency), and that migrating would bring city
devices under those security frameworks, including tools such as Sentinel One and multi-factor
authentication. He acknowledged that additional security requirements — such as MFA at login
— can create minor inconveniences but are important protective measures.

Mr. Schneider advised that the conversion process involves approximately 15 steps and would
require devices to be collected for roughly three days. He estimated the earliest feasible
timeline for the migration would be late April or early May 2026, depending on scheduling.

Mayor Valdez noted the importance of this transition given that Kearns is an Olympic host city
and is therefore a higher-profile target for cyberattacks. He said that the city is currently
operating below the minimum acceptable security level. Council Member Colby referenced a
recent tour of the water treatment plant during which staff noted attempted cyberattacks on
their systems, underscoring the urgency. Mr. Schneider confirmed that two nearby cities and a
local airport had succumbed to ransomware attacks within the past year.

All council members expressed support for moving forward. Mayor Valdez also suggested that
the city consider bringing on a consultant on the city’s side to work alongside MSD during the
transition. Council Member Schaeffer acknowledged the suggestion as something to revisit at
a later date. No formal motion was required for this workshop item; the council provided
direction to proceed with planning for the migration.


                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 4
Element Event Center
March 9, 2026

    B. Authorization to Put Together a Job Description for a City Administrator and to Review
       the Procurement Process for an Independently Contracted Content Creator

City Attorney Nathan Bracken presented two related topics as a follow-up to discussions held
at the recent council retreat.

Mr. Bracken explained that the council had reached general agreement at the retreat regarding
the need to hire a City Administrator. He clarified that this position would be a Kearns City
employee — not a contracted entity — hired under the personnel policy recently adopted by
the council. He asked the council for directional feedback so that he and Mayor Valdez could
draft a job description to be presented at the April dinner meeting for formal approval.

Mr. Bracken described the role as serving as the “transmission” between the council and
mayor (the drivers) and the MSD and other service districts (the engine), translating policy
goals into operational action. He noted that unlike traditional city managers, this position would
not carry HR management responsibilities, since city services are provided through the MSD
and other special districts.

Council Member Schaeffer requested that the job description includes an option for both a full-
time and part-time configuration, so the city retains flexibility depending on the qualifications of
applicants. Mr. Bracken agreed and suggested the description could indicate “full time or part
time depending on the right candidate.”

Mr. Bracken raised the question of whether the city administrator should have dedicated office
space, noting that since Kearns does not currently have a city hall, a virtual or hybrid
arrangement might be appropriate in the interim. He suggested the city could leverage existing
spaces such as the UPD precinct building or the Element Center for meetings. Council
Member Schaeffer and others affirmed that a dedicated office is not necessary at this time.

Mayor Valdez presented an additional option for the council to consider approaching the MSD
Board about the possibility of creating a shared “Executive Liaison” position that could serve
multiple MSD member cities in a city administrator-type capacity. He acknowledged this would
require MSD Board approval and noted it would not be a Kearns-dedicated position but offered
it as an alternative worth exploring.

The council reached consensus on the following direction: Mr. Bracken and Mayor Valdez
would work together to draft a city administrator job description (and a potential assistant
position) for council review in April; the position would be open to full-time or part-time
applicants depending on qualifications; the role would be permitted to work virtually in the near
term; and desired qualifications would include experience in redevelopment, large-scale
events, and ideally Olympic or major sporting event experience.




                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 5
Element Event Center
March 9, 2026

Mr. Bracken then outlined the procurement process for hiring a freelance content creator,
which Mayor Valdez had identified as a priority for strengthening the city’s digital presence and
branding. Because the anticipated cost would qualify as a “small purchase” under the city’s
procurement policy, the mayor, acting as the city’s purchasing agent, could engage the
contractor without requiring a formal council vote. However, Mayor Valdez indicated his
preference to keep the council informed throughout the process.

Mayor Valdez explained that this content creator would be a fully independent contractor using
their own equipment and software. Produced content would be routed through
Communications Manager Maridene Alexander before posting. The funding would be
redirected from a prior budget line that had been used for website management, which is now
handled by MSD staff. All council members were supportive of the concept.

7. PRESENTATION ITEMS
   A. Upgrading Official City of Kearns Website and TextMyGov

Maridene Alexander, MSD Communications Manager, presented two related initiatives:
upgrading the City of Kearns’ official website and adopting a new two-way resident
communication platform called TextMyGov.

Ms. Alexander explained that the city’s current website has been in service for approximately
seven years and is hosted on a platform called “Municipality Doc,” which was purchased by
CivicPlus. CivicPlus has stopped selling that product (as of October 2024) and is phasing it out
entirely in the near future, which means the city is required to transition to a new platform
regardless. She noted additional drawbacks with the current site: it is not mobile-friendly, does
not support scrolling design standards, lacks ADA/WCAG 2.1 accessibility compliance, has no
file-sharing security, and is difficult to update.

She recommended CivicPlus as the new platform, as the MSD has already transitioned Magna
City to CivicPlus with positive results, and several other Salt Lake Valley cities are on the same
platform. CivicPlus offers two tiers relevant to Kearns:

         1. Starter Standard — a template-based design at $5,000/year (comparable to the
         current cost).

         2. Starter Premium — a fully customized website design for $5,000/year plus a one-time
         $5,000 design fee ($10,000 total in year one). Ms. Alexander strongly recommended the
         Premium option so the site can be uniquely branded for Kearns, noting this equates to
         approximately $0.87 per household.

New features included in the CivicPlus platform include mobile-responsive design, multi-
language accessibility, ADA/WCAG 2.1 compliance, resident notification sign-up, and easy
staff-side updating. A design committee of approximately six to seven members would be
assembled to guide the customization process, which typically spans a few months. Ms.
Alexander offered to send council members links to example CivicPlus sites, including the
Magna city site, for reference.



                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 6
Element Event Center
March 9, 2026

Council Member Colby expressed enthusiasm, noting that improving the city’s website had
been a priority he campaigned on, and praised the platform’s multilingual features. Mayor
Valdez confirmed the city would look forward with the Premium option.

Ms. Alexander presented TextMyGov as a replacement for Code Red, the city’s current
emergency alert system. She explained that Code Red was recently the subject of a significant
data breach and has had ongoing service issues, and that the City Attorney’s office is working
to cancel the existing contract.

Unlike Code Red, which functions as a one-way emergency alert system, TextMyGov offers
two-way text communication between the city and residents. Residents do not need to
download an app — they simply subscribe via text. Features include automated keyword
responses (e.g., typing “agenda” returns a link to meeting agendas), the ability to conduct
resident surveys, integration with IPAWS and the National Weather Service for emergency
alerts, and the ability to create and manage segmented subscriber groups (e.g., council,
planning commission, general residents).

Ms. Alexander noted that TextMyGov is a Utah-based company and that MSD staff have
already completed training. The company pre-identified approximately 9,480 existing phone
numbers associated with Kearns residents that could be invited to opt in. The cost was
negotiated down from an initial quote of $12,500 to $10,000 per year — equivalent to what was
previously budgeted for Code Red, so no additional appropriation would be needed.

Mayor Valdez clarified that TextMyGov replaces Code Red entirely and expands the city’s
communication capabilities well beyond emergency alerts to include road closures, water
issues, event announcements, and more. The council received the presentation favorably.

    B. Kearns City Code Restatement (Titles 1, 2, and 3 to 14) – Nathan Bracken, City
       Attorney
City Attorney Nathan Bracken provided an update on the ongoing restatement of the Kearns
Municipal Code. He explained that when Kearns incorporated as a metro township, state law
required the city to adopt Salt Lake County’s code as it existed in 2017 as a starting point. That
code contains provisions that are county-specific and inapplicable to a municipality, including
references to county health departments and Metro Township designations, which must be
updated or removed.

Mr. Bracken indicated that the goal is to present updated code titles at each council meeting
on a rolling basis, with the hope of completing the full restatement by May or June 2026. He
proposed making the code restatement a standing agenda item until complete.

The current presentation covered Titles 1, 2, and 3 through 14. Mr. Bracken summarized the
scope of each relevant title:
      • Title 1 – Rules of Construction and uniform definitions applicable across the code,
      along with a general appeals procedure.



                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 7
Element Event Center
March 9, 2026

        • Title 2 – Governs the form of government, confirming Kearns’ five-member council
        structure and election procedures. This title is Kearns-specific and has been reviewed
        by MSD staff and the former city clerk.
        • Title 5 – Business Licensing. Because the MSD administers business licensing on
        behalf of Kearns, this title will require MSD review before adoption.
        • Title 11 – Parking. Will require MSD input, particularly given ongoing concerns about
        parking enforcement. Council Member Schaeffer confirmed he had already submitted
        proposed changes.
        • Title 12 – Code Enforcement. Has already been updated multiple times in coordination
        with MSD’s code enforcement team; the primary remaining change is updating
        references from “Metro Township” to “City.”
        • Title 14 – Public Works. MSD has already reviewed and provided comments; largely
        complete.
Council Member Schaeffer asked about the scope of MSD review requirements for the code
titles. Mr. Bracken clarified that titles governing functions performed by the MSD (Titles 5, 11,
12, and 14) will require MSD sign-off, while titles that are purely internal to the city council’s
governance structure (Titles 1 and 2) do not. He noted that his office had already incorporated
feedback from city recorder staff into Titles 1 and 2. The council acknowledged the update,
and Mr. Bracken indicated the next batch — including business licensing and parking — would
be presented at the following month’s meeting.

8. COUNCIL BUSINESS – ACTION ITEMS
   A. Discussion and Potential Action Regarding Resolution R2026-09, A Resolution
      Supporting the Construction of a Pedestrian Bridge Over the Railroad Tracks at 5400 S
Grant Coordinator Lea Kingsley and Assistant Engineer Chad Anderson presented Resolution
R2026-09. Ms. Kingsley explained that federal funding has recently become available through
the Congressional Community Project Funding process, and that approval of this resolution
would demonstrate the city’s commitment to the project and allow the city to apply for those
funds before the application deadline at the end of that week.

Ms. Kingsley clarified that the resolution does not finalize any design or commit the council to
construction. It simply expresses support for moving into the next stage of evaluation and
actively pursuing available federal funding, which could significantly reduce local costs.

Council Member Schaeffer noted he had not received the resolution in advance of the meeting.
Staff explained that the Congressional Community Project Funding window had opened
quickly, requiring expedited placement on the agenda. Council Member Schaeffer requested a
copy of the resolution and suggested any desired amendments be noted.

Council Member Colby expressed strong support, noting the bridge project had been raised as
a community concern on social media and that he had previously advocated for it. He
observed that given the elevation of 5400 South over the railroad tracks, a bridge could
potentially be installed with clearance beneath without requiring extensive structural work. He
also noted the need to reduce pedestrian foot traffic on the active rail line, especially for


                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 8
Element Event Center
March 9, 2026

students traveling to and from school.

Mayor Valdez asked whether the project could be designed to run north-south in addition to, or
instead of, east-west. Ms. Kingsley indicated that directional and design questions remain
open at this preliminary stage, and that all options are being considered.

Council Member Schaeffer also raised the possibility that a pedestrian bridge previously
stockpiled by UDOT at Mayor Bush’s request, when the bridge at 62nd South was demolished,
may still be available and could reduce construction costs. He indicated he would look into
whether Kearns still has access to that structure.

Council Member Longtin confirmed her understanding that the resolution is solely for the
purpose of supporting the grant application.

Council Member Schaeffer moved to approve Resolution R2026-09, A Resolution
Supporting the Construction of a Pedestrian Bridge Over the Railroad Tracks at 5400 S.
Council Member Longtin seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

    B. Discussion and Potential Action Regarding Resolution R2026-10, Appointing Council
       Member Lyndsay Longtin as an Alternate for the Unified Fire Authority (UFA) and
       Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA) Boards

Council Member Butterfield introduced this item, explaining that she wished to formally appoint
Council Member Longtin as her alternate representative on the Unified Fire Authority (UFA)
and Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA) boards. Council Member Butterfield noted she wanted to
ensure the appointment was handled properly through a formal resolution.

Council Member Schaeffer moved to approve Resolution R2026-10, Appointing Council
Member Longtin as an Alternate for the Unified Fire Authority and Unified Fire Service
Area Boards. Council Member Colby seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in
favor.

    C. Discussion and Potential Action Regarding the Kearns Community Council

City Attorney Nathan Bracken provided background on the item, explaining that recent
changes in state law have introduced additional compliance requirements for independent
community councils, including annual reporting to the State Auditor’s Office, execution of a
formal agreement with the city, and adherence to various best management practices
published by the Utah Legislative Auditor. Mayor Valdez communicated these requirements to
the Kearns Community Council, and the Community Council indicated it wished to come under
the city as an official committee rather than continue as an independent entity.

Mr. Bracken explained that converting the Community Council into an official City Committee
would accomplish several things: it would reduce the administrative burden by eliminating the
need for separate financial reporting and a standalone agreement; it would extend attorney-


                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 9
Element Event Center
March 9, 2026

client privilege to the group (as the Planning Commission has); it would provide volunteer
protections under the city; and the MSD would handle financial administration under existing
service agreements. He noted that the group’s name could remain “Community Council,” but
the legal entity would be a city committee rather than an independent nonprofit.

Members of the Community Council who were present expressed agreement with the
transition and enthusiasm about working more closely with the city. Mayor Valdez expressed
appreciation for the Community Council’s long history of service and characterized this as a
new chapter and a fresh start, encouraging all parties to move forward without looking back.

Council Member Butterfield moved to authorize the City Attorney to prepare the
necessary changes to the current Kearns Municipal Code to bring the Community
Council in-house as an official City of Kearns committee, and to work collaboratively
with the Community Council and the City Council in doing so. Council Member
Schaeffer seconded the motion. Vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.


    D. Discussion and Potential Approval of Community Council Budget

Following the vote on Item 8C, City Attorney Nathan Bracken addressed the interim budgetary
situation. He noted that the new city committee has not yet been formally created, and that
executing a contract with the Community Council as currently constituted would be a short-
term measure of approximately one month. He recommended an alternative approach to avoid
delays to the Community Council’s planned summer events.

Mr. Bracken proposed that the council approve the budget as presented by the Community
Council but designate it as a preliminary appropriation to be used by the city to make
procurements on behalf of the to-be-created events committee. In the interim period before the
committee is officially established, the Community Council would bring procurement needs to
Mayor Valdez, who as the city’s purchasing agent would coordinate with MSD financial staff to
make those purchases directly through the city’s procurement process. Once the official
committee is created, the budget will be revisited and amended as part of the city’s regular
budget cycle (with the tentative budget due in April or May and the final budget in June).

A Community Council member asked how soon funds would be available and whether they
needed to provide more granular breakdowns for each event. Mr. Bracken indicated the
budget as submitted is sufficient to get started, and that going forward the committee chair
would work directly with MSD financial staff to procure items within the approved budget
without needing to return to the council for each purchase.

Another Community Council member raised concerns about vacant seats and whether the
council would have authority over appointments. Mr. Bracken confirmed that as a city
committee, appointments would ultimately rest with the council but noted that the intention is to
retain current Community Council members. Mayor Valdez affirmed that the goal is continuity,
and that while the council has the authority to appoint others, it is not the intent at this time.



                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 10
Element Event Center
March 9, 2026

Mr. Bracken also noted that the Community Council could choose to continue to exist as a
separate legal entity for other purposes (such as independent outreach or grant applications),
but that the city’s financial appropriation would flow exclusively to the newly created city
committee, not to the Community Council as an independent nonprofit.

Council Member Schaeffer moved to adopt the budget that the Community Council presented,
to be used by the city to make procurements on behalf of the city in coordination with the
current Community Council members while the official events committee is established, with
the understanding that once the official committee is created, the budget will be reviewed and
amended as part of the city’s current fiscal year budget process. Council Member Longtin
seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

9. OTHER BUSINESS

    A. Sexual Harassment Training – Clayton Preece, Legal Counsel, Smith Hartvigsen
Clayton Preece, attorney with Smith Hartvigsen, presented a formal sexual harassment and
discrimination training to the Mayor and Council. Mr. Bracken introduced Mr. Preece and noted
that providing this training enables certain legal defenses for the city in the event of a future
claim.

Mr. Preece began with a disclaimer acknowledging that the training addresses sensitive
content and invited anyone uncomfortable to step out. He clarified that all examples used are
drawn from case law and other cities’ experiences, not from events at Kearns.

The training covered the following areas:
       • Legal Foundations: Sexual harassment is rooted in the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and
       the Utah Anti-Discrimination Act, which prohibit employment and public accommodation
       discrimination based on protected classes including race, sex, religion, national origin,
       sexual orientation, and gender identity.
       • Definition of Sexual Harassment: Legally defined as unwelcome sexual advances,
       requests for sexual favors, or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature that
       creates conditions of employment, affects employment decisions, or creates a hostile
       work environment. In plain terms, this includes quid pro quo arrangements, sexually
       suggestive comments, obscene gestures, unwanted physical contact, and physical
       assaults of a sexual nature.
       • Categories of Discrimination: Mr. Preece outlined three main categories: (1) Disparate
       Treatment – intentional unequal treatment based on a protected class, such as applying
       rules differently to male and female employees; (2) Disparate Impact – neutral-seeming
       policies that disproportionately affect a protected class, such as allowing sexually
       explicit material in male-dominated work areas; and (3) Discriminatory Harassment –
       repeated offensive conduct so pervasive it creates a hostile work environment.
       • Special Topics: Mr. Preece cautioned about the risks associated with slang, jokes, and
       emojis, noting that intent matters far less than impact in harassment determinations. He
       noted that a 2019 policy update by Facebook and Instagram restricted certain emojis



                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 11
Element Event Center
March 9, 2026

         due to their sexually suggestive connotations and advised council members to avoid
         emojis in official communications. He also discussed how courts assess what
         constitutes a “reasonable person” standard when evaluating claims.
         • Reporting: Under the city’s personnel policy, all harassment must be reported. Absent
         a city administrator, reports should be directed to the mayor, another council member,
         or the city attorney. Mr. Preece recommended keeping written records of dates, times,
         and witnesses.
         • Investigations: All allegations are investigated, either internally by legal counsel or by
         an outside specialist. All council members and employees have a duty to cooperate.
         Confidentiality is maintained to the extent possible.
         • Retaliation: Taking adverse action against someone who reports harassment is
         unlawful under state and federal law, and retaliation claims often succeed even when
         the underlying harassment claim does not. Mr. Preece advised the council to be mindful
         of the timing and documentation of any decisions made following a harassment report.
         • Prevention Strategies: Speak up early, document conduct, use reporting channels,
         seek guidance, and as bystanders, report even seemingly minor behavior. Mr. Preece
         noted that in virtually every harassment investigation, there were bystanders who
         observed the conduct but did not report it, and that witnessed behavior is typically the
         “tip of the iceberg.”

City Attorney Nathan Bracken added closing remarks, drawing on nearly 11 years of
experience alongside Mr. Preece handling harassment cases. He noted the most common
scenario involves a person in a position of power making an inadvertent comment of a sexual
nature that a subordinate finds offensive. He emphasized that because council members sit at
the top of the hierarchy and interact with staff across multiple districts, they are in a position of
power in all their professional interactions. His primary recommendation: do not discuss
anything of a sexual nature, in any context, with any person connected to city business — full
stop. Mr. Preece echoed this guidance, noting that even conversations between two
consenting council members can subject a third party nearby to an uncomfortable
environment. Mayor Valdez thanked both attorneys for the training.

    B. Future Agenda Business / Stakeholder Updates
City Attorney Nathan Bracken outlined the following items anticipated for the next council
meeting agenda:
       • Code Restatement – standing item to continue until complete
       • City Administrator and Assistant position job descriptions
       • Code amendment to establish the new Events Committee, along with an appointing
       resolution
       • Legislative Update – Mr. Bracken indicated he would provide an update on changes
       from the recent Utah legislative session, including necessary amendments to the city’s
       land use code




                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 12
Element Event Center
March 9, 2026

City Recorder Diana Baun noted that stakeholder presentations are now scheduled on an as-
needed basis. District representatives are invited to notify her in advance if they have updates
to present, so they can be added to the agenda. She mentioned that Kearns Improvement
District representative Greg Anderson and Wolford representative Renee Plant had both
indicated they would likely have items for the following month.

Chief Hughes distributed printed statistical reports for council members’ binders. He
highlighted the following:
       • Detective Work: Detective Webb recently executed a warrant on an individual who had
       been committing widespread property theft throughout Kearns. The search recovered
       thousands of dollars in stolen property, firearms, and narcotics, and led to the
       individual’s arrest and incarceration.
       • Tragic Accidents: Chief Hughes reported an unusually high number of serious
       accidents in the past month, noting the emotional toll such incidents take on officers,
       firefighters, and EMS personnel. He mentioned: a serious accident on 5600 West that
       left multiple individuals in critical condition with uncertain long-term prognosis; a recent
       pedestrian fatality in which an individual was struck by a vehicle after not using a
       crosswalk; and, in the early morning hours of the previous night, a fatal accident in
       which a one-month-old infant was killed. Chief Hughes acknowledged that Kearns PD
       staff would be receiving support and check-ins following these events.

Mayor Valdez expressed appreciation for Chief Hughes’ visual summary format.

Chief Lintz provided the following updates:
       • Budget Season: UFA is currently in the middle of its budget process. Division leaders
       have submitted their proposals, which are now under review at the chief/administrative
       level. Chief Lintz indicated the outlook is positive. Council Member Longtin, newly
       appointed as Council Member Butterfield’s alternate on the UFA Board, was
       acknowledged and welcomed.
       • Incidents: No significant fires were reported during the month, which Chief Lintz noted
       was a positive contrast to the previous month. He echoed Chief Hughes’ remarks about
       the difficult motor vehicle accidents experienced by joint response crews.
       • Utah Task Force 1: Approximately 40 UFA personnel recently returned from a national
       training facility in Texas. The four-day training involved long days and nights and is
       expected to enhance the team’s capabilities in heavy rescue and hazmat operations.
       • Call Volume: Stations 107 and 109 each responded to approximately 130 calls during
       the short month, representing a slight decrease overall.

Council Member Schaeffer raised a concern that he had not seen a flag flying at Station 107
during recent visits. Chief Lintz indicated he was unaware of an issue with the flagpole and
committed to following up with station staff.




                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 13
Element Event Center
March 9, 2026

Council Member Schaeffer moved to recess the City Council Meeting and move into
Closed Session for the reasons indicated below. Council Member Butterfield seconded
that motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

10. Closed Session if Needed as Allowed Pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-205

    A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health of an
       individual
    B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation
    C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property
    D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and/or
    E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

11. Adjourn

Council Member Butterfield moved to adjourn the March 9, 2026, City Council Meeting.
Council Member Schaeffer seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.


This is a true and correct copy of the March 9, 2026, City Council Meeting Minutes,
which were approved on April 13, 2026.



Attest:

                                                                Jesse Valdez, Mayor
Diana Baun, City Recorder




                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
                                        Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                          Standard Financial Report
                                                 50 City of Kearns - 07/01/2025 to 02/28/2026
                                                    66.67% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                                2025             2026
                                                              Year-End           YTD
                                                               Actual           Actual
Net Position
 Assets:
  Current Assets
   Cash and cash equivalents
     10200 Cash - PTIF                                       2,528,399.87     2,061,543.07
     10750 Undeposited Receipts                                     (0.09)          232.12
   Total Cash and cash equivalents                           2,528,399.78     2,061,775.19
   Receivables
    11530 Accounts Rec. -                                       17,878.51           352.71
    11531 Taxes Receivable                                           0.00             6.84
    12500 Due from Other Gov.                                1,655,624.41     1,430,308.46
    12550 Due from Other Funds                                     510.00         3,962.00
   Total Receivables                                         1,674,012.92     1,434,630.01
  Total Current Assets                                       4,202,412.70     3,496,405.20
  Non-Current Assets
   Restricted assets
    10102 Cash - Zions Bond Escrow                              95,324.92        43,388.77
   Total Restricted assets                                      95,324.92        43,388.77
  Total Non-Current Assets                                      95,324.92        43,388.77
 Total Assets:                                               4,297,737.62     3,539,793.97
 Liabilites and Fund Equity:
  Liabilities:
   Current liabilities
    21000 Accounts Payable                                      13,758.54        11,901.86
    21100 Accrued Expenses                                      17,547.09        17,547.09
    23450 Performance Bonds Payable                             95,324.92        43,388.77
    24000 Due to Other Funds                                 1,674,114.51             0.00
   Total Current liabilities                                 1,800,745.06        72,837.72
  Total Liabilities:                                         1,800,745.06        72,837.72
  Equity - Fund Balance
   29000 Unassigned Net Position (Fund Bal)                  1,632,308.87     2,454,272.56
   29010 Assigned Capital Fund                                 262,683.69       262,683.69
   29561 Restricted Corridor Preservation Fund                 602,000.00       750,000.00
  Total Equity - Fund Balance                                2,496,992.56     3,466,956.25
 Total Liabilites and Fund Equity:                           4,297,737.62     3,539,793.97
Total Net Position                                                    0.00            0.00




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                   Page 1                       3/30/2026 12:16 PM
                                         Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                        Standard Financial Report
                                               50 City of Kearns - 07/01/2025 to 02/28/2026
                                                  66.67% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                              2025             2026                           Unearned/         %
                                                            Year-End           YTD               2026          Unused         Earned/
                                                             Actual           Actual            Budget         Budget          Used
Change In Net Position
 Revenue:
  Taxes
   Sales Taxes
    3100.300 Sales Tax                                     6,900,633.70     4,453,868.69       6,500,000.00   2,046,131.31        68.52%
   Total Sales Taxes                                       6,900,633.70     4,453,868.69       6,500,000.00   2,046,131.31        68.52%
   SB 136 Sales Tax
    3100.350 SB 136 Sales Tax                                618,184.70       400,658.99        650,000.00     249,341.01         61.64%
   Total SB 136 Sales Tax                                    618,184.70       400,658.99        650,000.00     249,341.01         61.64%
  Total Taxes                                              7,518,818.40     4,854,527.68       7,150,000.00   2,295,472.32        67.90%
  Intergovernmental revenue
   Road Funds
     3100.560 B&C Road Fund Allotment                      1,721,486.51     1,060,914.33       1,600,000.00     539,085.67        66.31%
     3100.561 HB244 Corridor Preservation Funds              302,000.00       148,000.00               0.00   (148,000.00)         0.00%
     3100.562 County Public Transit Tax                        6,283.41       209,642.62               0.00   (209,642.62)         0.00%
   Total Road Funds                                        2,029,769.92     1,418,556.95       1,600,000.00     181,443.05        88.66%
   CARES Act
    3100.322 ARPA Funds                                             0.00            0.00       2,631,285.00   2,631,285.00         0.00%
   Total CARES Act                                                  0.00            0.00       2,631,285.00   2,631,285.00         0.00%
  Total Intergovernmental revenue                          2,029,769.92     1,418,556.95       4,231,285.00   2,812,728.05        33.53%
  Licenses and permits
   Business licenses
    3100.130 Business Licenses                                54,126.00        31,094.25         50,000.00      18,905.75         62.19%
   Total Business licenses                                    54,126.00        31,094.25         50,000.00      18,905.75         62.19%
   Building permits
    3100.260 Building Permit                                 190,854.69       113,256.31        200,000.00      86,743.69         56.63%
   Total Building permits                                    190,854.69       113,256.31        200,000.00      86,743.69         56.63%
  Total Licenses and permits                                 244,980.69       144,350.56        250,000.00     105,649.44         57.74%
  Charges for services
   Charges other
    3100.420 Engineering Services                             23,374.00        17,081.75         50,000.00      32,918.25         34.16%
    3100.450 Planning Services                                 5,742.06         3,376.50         15,000.00      11,623.50         22.51%
   Total Charges other                                        29,116.06        20,458.25         65,000.00      44,541.75         31.47%
  Total Charges for services                                  29,116.06        20,458.25         65,000.00      44,541.75         31.47%
  Fines and forfeitures
   Code enforcement fines and fees
    3100.240 Code Enforcement Fines and Fees                  20,259.64             0.00           5,000.00      5,000.00          0.00%
   Total Code enforcement fines and fees                      20,259.64             0.00           5,000.00      5,000.00          0.00%
   Justice court fines/forfeitures
    3100.500 Justice Court Fines/Forfeitures                 266,267.95        75,049.31        250,000.00     174,950.69         30.02%
   Total Justice court fines/forfeitures                     266,267.95        75,049.31        250,000.00     174,950.69         30.02%
  Total Fines and forfeitures                                286,527.59        75,049.31        255,000.00     179,950.69         29.43%
  Miscellaneous revenue
   Interest
    3600.100 Interest Earnings                                54,641.13        64,907.89        125,000.00      60,092.11         51.93%
   Total Interest                                             54,641.13        64,907.89        125,000.00      60,092.11         51.93%
   Miscellaneous other
    3600.900 Other Revenue                                    18,670.20            29.90               0.00        (29.90)         0.00%
    3600.902 Other Revenue - Declaration of Candidate            400.00             0.00               0.00           0.00         0.00%
   Total Miscellaneous other                                  19,070.20            29.90               0.00        (29.90)         0.00%
  Total Miscellaneous revenue                                 73,711.33        64,937.79        125,000.00      60,062.21         51.95%
  Contributions and transfers
   3100.001 Operating transfers in                           722,144.69           303.00               0.00       (303.00)         0.00%
   3800.100 Contribution from GF                           1,083,361.00     1,221,141.00       1,221,141.00           0.00       100.00%
  Total Contributions and transfers                        1,805,505.69     1,221,444.00       1,221,141.00       (303.00)       100.02%
 Total Revenue:                                           11,988,429.68     7,799,324.54      13,297,426.00   5,498,101.46        58.65%
 Expenditures:

INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                 Page 2                                                3/30/2026 12:16 PM
                                         Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                        Standard Financial Report
                                               50 City of Kearns - 07/01/2025 to 02/28/2026
                                                  66.67% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                              2025             2026                           Unearned/         %
                                                            Year-End           YTD               2026          Unused         Earned/
                                                             Actual           Actual            Budget         Budget          Used
  Administration
   4100.100 Wages                                            103,565.34        67,783.31         225,000.00    157,216.69         30.13%
   4100.130 Employee Benefits                                     75.60             48.30         19,800.00      19,751.70         0.24%
   4100.150 Social Security Tax                                6,339.21          4,165.38         14,000.00       9,834.62        29.75%
   4100.160 Medicare                                           1,482.56            974.16          3,500.00       2,525.84        27.83%
   4100.180 Medical Insurance                                 60,428.28        42,572.38         132,500.00      89,927.62        32.13%
   4100.190 FUTA                                                   0.00            275.44              0.00       (275.44)         0.00%
   4100.200 Awards, Promotional & Meals                        1,092.42          2,033.05          1,500.00       (533.05)       135.54%
   4100.210 Subscriptions/Memberships                         23,630.20        19,952.08          30,000.00      10,047.92        66.51%
   4100.220 Printing/Publications/Advertising                  4,576.52          8,182.74          5,500.00     (2,682.74)       148.78%
   4100.230 Travel/Mileage                                    11,446.73            910.54          1,500.00         589.46        60.70%
   4100.240 Office Expense and Supplies                        3,421.59        14,617.68           5,000.00     (9,617.68)       292.35%
   4100.255 Computer Equip/Software                                0.00              0.00         30,000.00      30,000.00         0.00%
   4100.280 Cell phone and Telephone                               0.00            100.68              0.00       (100.68)         0.00%
   4100.310 Attorney-Civil                                   102,804.50        69,632.50         130,000.00      60,367.50        53.56%
   4100.312 Lobbyist Services                                 12,000.00          6,000.00         12,000.00       6,000.00        50.00%
   4100.320 Attorney - Land Use                                1,971.00        12,866.50          40,000.00      27,133.50        32.17%
   4100.330 Training and Seminars                                750.00             60.00              0.00         (60.00)        0.00%
   4100.360 Web Page Development/Maintenance                   6,323.92          1,411.92         15,000.00      13,588.08         9.41%
   4100.370 Software/Streaming                                18,745.98        21,980.58          17,000.00     (4,980.58)       129.30%
   4100.380 Internet Connections                               5,990.94          3,095.14          5,500.00       2,404.86        56.28%
   4100.390 Payroll Processing Fees                              504.00            556.50              0.00       (556.50)         0.00%
   4100.420 Contributions/Special Events                      78,500.00          9,740.00         90,000.00      80,260.00        10.82%
   4100.430 City Elections and Voting                              0.00        43,358.23               0.00    (43,358.23)         0.00%
   4100.510 Insurance                                         25,960.79        24,697.28          40,000.00      15,302.72        61.74%
   4100.520 Workers Comp Insurance                                 0.00          2,086.21          8,500.00       6,413.79        24.54%
   4100.590 Postage                                            7,693.10          7,608.03          5,000.00     (2,608.03)       152.16%
   4100.600 Professional and Technical                         1,980.00          2,610.00          7,500.00       4,890.00        34.80%
   4100.621 Victim Critical Needs                                  0.00          2,166.00         25,000.00      22,834.00         8.66%
   4100.635 Election Support Services                              0.00          3,000.00         84,341.00      81,341.00         3.56%
   4100.640 Grant Related                                     20,547.09              0.00              0.00            0.00        0.00%
   4100.650 SL (Client) County Support Services                   87.07              0.00         50,000.00      50,000.00         0.00%
   4100.750 Non-Cap Improvements                               1,012.50        22,712.00          25,000.00       2,288.00        90.85%
   4100.760 Christmas on 54th Decorations & Lights                64.34          3,240.00          8,000.00       4,760.00        40.50%
   4100.860 Code Enforcement Abatements                        7,469.86        (5,225.41)         50,000.00      55,225.41       -10.45%
   4100.870 Rent                                               6,817.92          4,545.28        135,000.00    130,454.72          3.37%
   4100.880 Non-Classified Expenses                                0.00          1,420.81          5,000.00       3,579.19        28.42%
  Total Administration                                       515,281.46       399,177.31       1,221,141.00    821,963.69         32.69%
  COVID Related Expenses
   4100.243 ARPA Act Expense and Supplies                           0.00            0.00       2,631,285.00   2,631,285.00         0.00%
  Total COVID Related Expenses                                      0.00            0.00       2,631,285.00   2,631,285.00         0.00%
  Transfers
   4100.928 Contribution to General Fund                   9,878,196.49     6,430,183.54       9,445,000.00   3,014,816.46        68.08%
   4100.932 Contribution to Restricted Capital Fund                0.00       148,000.00               0.00   (148,000.00)         0.00%
   48450.001 Operational Transfers out                       162,289.09             0.00               0.00           0.00         0.00%
  Total Transfers                                         10,040,485.58     6,578,183.54       9,445,000.00   2,866,816.46        69.65%
 Total Expenditures:                                      10,555,767.04     6,977,360.85      13,297,426.00   6,320,065.15        52.47%
Total Change In Net Position                               1,432,662.64       821,963.69               0.00   (821,963.69)         0.00%




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                 Page 3                                                3/30/2026 12:16 PM
                                            Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                       Standard Financial Report
                                       52 Kearns Beer Tax Special Fund - 07/01/2025 to 02/28/2026
                                                 66.67% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                             2025            2026                          Unearned/        %
                                                           Year-End          YTD             2026           Unused        Earned/
                                                            Actual          Actual          Budget          Budget         Used
Change In Net Position
 Revenue:
  Intergovernmental revenue
   State liquor fund
     3100.580 State Liquor Fund Allotment                     61,156.89            0.00      30,000.00       30,000.00         0.00%
   Total State liquor fund                                    61,156.89            0.00      30,000.00       30,000.00         0.00%
  Total Intergovernmental revenue                             61,156.89            0.00      30,000.00       30,000.00         0.00%
 Total Revenue:                                               61,156.89            0.00      30,000.00       30,000.00         0.00%
 Expenditures:
  Administration
   4100.850 Beer Funds                                        61,156.89            0.00      30,000.00       30,000.00         0.00%
  Total Administration                                        61,156.89            0.00      30,000.00       30,000.00         0.00%
 Total Expenditures:                                          61,156.89            0.00      30,000.00       30,000.00         0.00%
Total Change In Net Position                                       0.00            0.00             0.00          0.00         0.00%




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                Page 4                                             3/30/2026 12:16 PM
                                       Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                      Standard Financial Report
                             54 City of Kearns Community Reinvestment Agency - 07/01/2025 to 02/28/2026
                                                 66.67% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                           2025            2026
                                                         Year-End          YTD
                                                          Actual          Actual
Net Position
 Assets:
  Current Assets
   Cash and cash equivalents
     10100 Cash - Zions Checking                              510.00            0.00
   Total Cash and cash equivalents                            510.00            0.00
  Total Current Assets                                        510.00            0.00
 Total Assets:                                                510.00            0.00
 Liabilites and Fund Equity:
  Liabilities:
   Current liabilities
    21000 Accounts Payable                                     510.00           0.00
    24000 Due to Other Funds                                   510.00       3,962.00
   Total Current liabilities                                 1,020.00       3,962.00
  Total Liabilities:                                         1,020.00       3,962.00
  Equity - Fund Balance
   29000 Unassigned Net Position (Fund Bal)                  (510.00)      (3,962.00)
  Total Equity - Fund Balance                                (510.00)      (3,962.00)
 Total Liabilites and Fund Equity:                            510.00            0.00
Total Net Position                                               0.00           0.00




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                              Page 5                                      3/30/2026 12:16 PM
                                           Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                        Standard Financial Report
                               54 City of Kearns Community Reinvestment Agency - 07/01/2025 to 02/28/2026
                                                   66.67% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                             2025            2026                           Unearned/         %
                                                           Year-End          YTD            2026             Unused         Earned/
                                                            Actual          Actual         Budget            Budget          Used
Change In Net Position
 Expenditures:
  Administration
   4100.310.000 General - Attorney-Civil                        510.00        3,452.00           0.00         (3,452.00)         0.00%
  Total Administration                                          510.00        3,452.00           0.00         (3,452.00)         0.00%
 Total Expenditures:                                            510.00        3,452.00           0.00         (3,452.00)         0.00%
Total Change In Net Position                                   (510.00)      (3,452.00)          0.00          3,452.00          0.00%




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                Page 6                                               3/30/2026 12:16 PM
                                        Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                     Standard Financial Report
                                     55 Kearns Council Designated Fund - 07/01/2025 to 02/28/2026
                                                66.67% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                            2025            2026
                                                          Year-End          YTD
                                                           Actual          Actual
Net Position
 Assets:
  Current Assets
   Cash and cash equivalents
     10100 Cash - Zions Checking                                  0.00     676,983.61
     10101 Cash - Zions CARES                                2,828.09        2,828.09
     10200 Cash - PTIF                                     238,422.63      550,563.73
     10202 Cash - PTIF 9074 CARES                          746,187.08      346,572.33
     10750 Undeposited Receipts                                 (0.01)          (0.01)
   Total Cash and cash equivalents                         987,437.79    1,576,947.75
   Receivables
    12500 Due From Other Gov.                              157,924.59      214,623.24
   Total Receivables                                       157,924.59      214,623.24
  Total Current Assets                                    1,145,362.38   1,791,570.99
 Total Assets:                                            1,145,362.38   1,791,570.99
 Liabilites and Fund Equity:
  Liabilities:
   Current liabilities
    21000 Accounts Payable                                 494,288.00      227,000.00
   Total Current liabilities                               494,288.00      227,000.00
   Deferred revenue
    23455 CARES2 Deferred Revenue                          258,120.71      206,083.46
   Total Deferred revenue                                  258,120.71      206,083.46
  Total Liabilities:                                       752,408.71      433,083.46
  Equity - Fund Balance
   29000 Unassigned Net Position (Fund Bal)                392,953.67    1,358,487.53
  Total Equity - Fund Balance                              392,953.67    1,358,487.53
 Total Liabilites and Fund Equity:                        1,145,362.38   1,791,570.99
Total Net Position                                                0.00           0.00




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                               Page 7                               3/30/2026 12:16 PM
                                           Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                      Standard Financial Report
                                      55 Kearns Council Designated Fund - 07/01/2025 to 02/28/2026
                                                 66.67% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                             2025            2026                           Unearned/         %
                                                           Year-End          YTD             2026            Unused         Earned/
                                                            Actual          Actual          Budget           Budget          Used
Change In Net Position
 Revenue:
  Taxes
   MET Taxes
    3100.111 MET-Municipal Energy                             3,072.68        1,383.57            0.00        (1,383.57)         0.00%
    3100.112 MET-Municipal Telecom                           55,240.50       48,455.07       60,000.00         11,544.93        80.76%
    3100.113 MET-Pacificorp/Rocky Mtn Power                 271,348.65      613,255.91      600,000.00       (13,255.91)       102.21%
    3100.114 MET-Questar Gas/Dominion Energy                391,618.88      263,445.84      720,000.00       456,554.16         36.59%
   Total MET Taxes                                          721,280.71      926,540.39    1,380,000.00       453,459.61         67.14%
   Franchise Taxes
    3100.401 Google Franchise Fee                             80,796.00      31,614.00       30,000.00        (1,614.00)       105.38%
   Total Franchise Taxes                                      80,796.00      31,614.00       30,000.00        (1,614.00)       105.38%
  Total Taxes                                               802,076.71      958,154.39    1,410,000.00       451,845.61         67.95%
  Intergovernmental revenue
   Road Funds
     3100.561 HB244 Corridor Preservation Funds                    0.00           0.00      300,000.00       300,000.00          0.00%
   Total Road Funds                                                0.00           0.00      300,000.00       300,000.00          0.00%
   CARES Act
    3100.322 ARPA                                            82,130.00      235,098.33               0.00   (235,098.33)         0.00%
    3100.323 CARES2                                         623,691.70       52,037.25               0.00    (52,037.25)         0.00%
   Total CARES Act                                          705,821.70      287,135.58               0.00   (287,135.58)         0.00%
  Total Intergovernmental revenue                           705,821.70      287,135.58      300,000.00        12,864.42         95.71%
  Miscellaneous revenue
   Interest
    3600.100 Interest Earnings                                81,946.53      24,941.97       42,000.00        17,058.03         59.39%
   Total Interest                                             81,946.53      24,941.97       42,000.00        17,058.03         59.39%
  Total Miscellaneous revenue                                 81,946.53      24,941.97       42,000.00        17,058.03         59.39%
  Contributions and transfers
   3100.001 Operating Transfers in                             2,828.09           0.00               0.00          0.00          0.00%
  Total Contributions and transfers                            2,828.09           0.00               0.00          0.00          0.00%
 Total Revenue:                                            1,592,673.03   1,270,231.94    1,752,000.00       481,768.06         72.50%
 Expenditures:
  Administration
   4100.420 Contributions/Special Events                           0.00       3,000.00               0.00     (3,000.00)         0.00%
  Total Administration                                             0.00       3,000.00               0.00     (3,000.00)         0.00%
  Professional services
   4100.623 Public Safety                                   493,897.66            0.00       25,000.00        25,000.00          0.00%
  Total Professional services                               493,897.66            0.00       25,000.00        25,000.00          0.00%
  COVID Related Expenses
   4100.242 CARES 2 Expense and Supplies                    623,691.70       66,599.75               0.00    (66,599.75)         0.00%
   4100.243 ARPA Act Expense and Supplies                    82,130.00      235,098.33               0.00   (235,098.33)         0.00%
  Total COVID Related Expenses                              705,821.70      301,698.08               0.00   (301,698.08)         0.00%
 Total Expenditures:                                       1,199,719.36     304,698.08       25,000.00      (279,698.08)     1,218.79%
Total Change In Net Position                                392,953.67      965,533.86    1,727,000.00       761,466.14         55.91%




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                Page 8                                               3/30/2026 12:16 PM
                 UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY
                                                                                March 18, 2026

All City, Town, Township, and Salt Lake County Governments:

In anticipation of fireworks season, this information will assist your legislative bodies to assure compliance
with Utah fireworks laws and the setting of restricted areas.

Please review your fireworks restricted areas for accuracy and proper alignment. If changes to the 2025
fireworks restrictions map are necessary, Utah Code Section 15A-5-202.5 provides the steps and
requirements to implement those changes. If you make any changes, please ensure that the proper
ordinances are also updated for the 2026 fireworks season.

Key point:
   Ø Each legislative body must, before May 1st of each year, provide a map to UFA setting forth the
       areas designated as restricted. This will provide the basis for the map produced and provided by the
       County. UFA Fire Prevention Division can assist you with this process and any issues related to
       delineating such areas if you wish to make alterations to the prior year’s map. If no changes are
       needed, UFA will use the map for your area from last year for this process. The County must have
       a map in place and available to the public and fireworks vendors before June 1st.

Links to the Utah fireworks law:
https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title15A/Chapter5/15A-5-S202.5.html?v=C15A-5-S202.5_2018050820180508
https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title53/Chapter7/53-7-S225.html?v=C53-7-S225_2018050820180508
https://rules.utah.gov/publicat/code/r710/r710-015.htm#T4

Current fireworks law summary:
   o Discharge dates for fireworks: two days before, day of, and one day after July 4th and 24th
   o Provide a restriction area map to UFA by May 1st
   o Provide a County wide map on the County’s website before June 1st (UFA Responsibility)
   o Provides liability for negligence, reckless, or intentional conduct for suppression costs and
       damages caused by fire regardless of whether it is in a prohibited area or within the times allowed
       for discharge. Discharge within prohibited areas or outside of allowable time period constitutes
       negligent, reckless, or intentional conduct.
   o Clarifies areas where cities can restrict fireworks discharge
   o Establishes criminal infractions: (up to $1,000 fine)
            § Discharge of fireworks outside of legal dates
            § Discharge of fireworks in an area where fireworks are prohibited

Changes can be made to the restricted areas closer in time to the dates of discharge if fire conditions
significant worsen as the fireworks season approaches, causing concern for areas not restricted by May 1st.
If this occurs, please contact your Liaison, Fire Prevention, or your Area Fire Marshal. Please also feel
free to contact me should you have any questions or concerns.

Thank you,
Wade T Watkins
Fire Marshal / Community Risk Manager
wwatkins@unifiedfireut.gov

3380 South 900 West    n   Salt Lake City, UT 84119-4102   n   (801) 743-7200   n   www.unifiedfire.org
                                   KEARNS CITY COUNCIL

               ORDINANCE NO. 2026-O-03                        DATE: April 13, 2026

AN ORDINANCE OF THE KEARNS CITY COUNCIL AMENDING CHAPTER 2.56 OF
THE KEARNS MUNICIPAL CODE TO RE-ESTABLISH THE KEARNS COMMUNITY
 COUNCIL AS AN OFFICIAL COMMITTEE OF THE CITY FOR THE PURPOSE OF
   PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTING THE CITY’S PLANNED ANNUAL CIVIC
                             EVENTS

        WHEREAS, for decades, the Kearns Community Council has served the citizens of the
City of Kearns (“City” or “Kearns”) in a variety of ways and through the dedicated services of its
citizen volunteers; and

       WHEREAS, following Kearns’s incorporation as a municipality in 2017, Kearns has
provided the Kearns Community Council with funding to plan and carry out the City’s public
events pursuant to Chapter 2.56 of the Kearns Municipal Code; and

       WHEREAS, changes in State law have imposed new reporting, accounting, and other
requirements on private non-profit entities that receive public funds, including the Kearns
Community Council; and

        WHEREAS, after consulting with each other, Kearns and the Kearns Community Council
desire to further the work of the Kearns Community Council by re-establishing the council as an
official City committee with express authority to plan and carry out City events with the direct
support of City resources and staff; and

         WHEREAS, the City Council desires to appoint the inaugural members to the Committee,
with three Committee members having initial terms of two years, another three having an initial
term of three years, and a final group of three having a term of four years, provided that after these
initial terms are completed the term of each Committee member shall be four years; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council’s intent in re-establishing the Kearns Community Council
as an official City committee is to broaden citizen input and participation in all civic events and
create more grassroots support for these activities by forming a citizen committee of volunteers
that will coordinate with City staff in carrying out civic events and soliciting the help of public
volunteers.

       NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED by the Kearns City Council that:

         1.      Amendment: Chapter 2.56 of the Kearns Municipal Code is repealed and replaced
in its entirety with the language set forth in Exhibit A of this Ordinance.

       2.    Appointment: The following individuals are appointed to the Committee with the
below terms:
               a. _____________________________, __________________________, and
                  _____________________________ who shall each serve two-year terms
                  ending on ___________________, 2028.

               b. _____________________________, __________________________, and
                  _____________________________ who shall each serve three-year terms
                  ending on ___________________, 2029.

               c. _____________________________, __________________________, and
                  _____________________________ who shall each serve four-year terms
                  ending on ____________________, 2030.

        3.      Severability: If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this ordinance, or specific
application of this ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in full
force and effect.

        4.      Direction to Mayor and Staff: The Mayor and staff are authorized and directed
to take such steps as may be needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah law,
including but not limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-711; and (b)
to finalize and post the ordinance to MuniCode, including but not limited to making non-
substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.

       5.      Effective Date: This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its
posting.


                                   [Execution on following page]




                                                  2
               ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the Kearns Council on this
  13th day of April 2026.

  CITY OF KEARNS


  ___________________________________
  By: Jesse Valdez, Mayor


  ATTEST:



  Diana Baun
  City Recorder

  City Council Vote as Recorded:

  Mayor Valdez               ________
  Council Member Colby       ________
  Council Member Butterfield ________
  Council Member Longtin     ________
  Council Member Schaeffer ________




(Complete as Applicable)

Date ordinance summary was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code §10-3-711:
_________________________________________________________________________________

Effective date of ordinance:________________________________________________________




                                              3
                                      SUMMARY OF
                                    CITY OF KEARNS
                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2026-O-03

        On April 13, 2026, the Kearns Council enacted Ordinance No. 2026-O-03 to amend
Chapter 2.56 of the Kearns Municipal Code to re-establish the Kearns Community Council as an
official committee of the City for the purpose of planning and implementing the City’s planned
annual civic events.

CITY OF KEARNS

___________________________________
By: Jesse Valdez, Mayor


ATTEST:


Diana Baun
City Recorder

City Council Vote as Recorded:

Mayor Valdez               ________
Council Member Colby       ________
Council Member Butterfield ________
Council Member Longtin     ________
Council Member Schaeffer ________

A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2026-O-03 is available in the office of the Kearns City
Recorder, 860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah 84123.




                                              4
EXHIBIT A




    5
                  CHAPTER 2.56 OF THE KEARNS MUNICIPAL CODE
                             KEARNS COMMUNITY COUNCIL
                                     Adopted April 13, 2026


Section 2.56.010 Committee Name
   A. The Kearns City Council established a citizen committee on April 13, 2026, by
      Ordinance 2026-O-03 to plan and execute events for the City.

   B. The         name          of      the         committee    shall be   the
      “___________________________________________________________________”
      and hereafter referred as the “Committee” in this Chapter.
Section 2.56.020 Purpose
The City Council recognizes there are many public needs related to civic events and that there is a
role for municipal government in meeting those needs. The City Council established the
Committee for the purpose of improving civic events and making recommendations to the City
Council related to these important areas of focus.
Section 2.56.030 Membership
The Committee shall be made up of not less than nine (9) members as follows: nine citizens at
large, three of whom shall serve an initial term of two years, three of whom shall serve three-year
terms, and three of whom shall serve four-year terms. After the initial terms are completed, all
subsequent terms shall be four years. Each of the four Council members of the City Council shall
recommend two citizen committee member for appointment to the Committee. The Mayor shall
recommend one citizen committee member for appointment to the Committee. Prior to making
their respective nominations, the Council members and Mayor shall consult with the Committee,
which may provide the Council member and Mayor with recommended nominations to consider.
The appointments shall be made by a majority vote of the City Council.
Section 2.56.040 Supporting Staff.
   A. The Council may also assign one or more of the following to provide support to the
      Committee:

       1. One member of the City Council selected by the Mayor in consultation with the City
          Council;

       2. Kearns City Outreach Coordinator or his/her designee to serve as a liaison between the
          Council and the Committee;

       3. The City Recorder;

       4. The City Attorney; and


                                                6
       5. Other City staff the City Council deems appropriate.

   B. The role of the Kearns City Outreach Coordinator, if appointed as a liaison to the
      Committee, shall be to:

       1. Attend regularly scheduled Committee meetings;

       2. Communicate back to the City Council regarding civic events updates; and

       3. Align Committee priorities with City Council goal.

   C. The Committee may call upon other City staff and the City Council for reasonable support
      and resources as needed.

Section 2.56.050 Membership Tenure
The term of appointment to the Committee is either two years, three years, or four years for initial
terms and four years for all terms after the completion of the initial term. Committee members may
be reappointed but service may not exceed eight years. The Committee member terms shall be
staggered so the rotation of the Committee members does not happen at the same time. Each of
the four Councilmembers of the City Council shall recommend two citizen committee member for
appointment to the Committee. The Mayor of the City Council shall recommend one member for
appointment to the Committee. Such appointments shall be made by a majority vote of the City
Council.
Section 2.56.060 Attendance
Members shall regularly attend Committee meetings. A member with three unexcused committee
meeting absences within a calendar year shall have their membership reviewed and may be
recommended to the City Council for removal from the Committee by a majority vote of the full
Committee.
Section 2.56.070 Member Responsibilities.
As a member of the Committee, each member shall be responsible to:
   1. Read and study the agenda, staff reports, and any meeting materials prepared by supporting
      staff or committee members, so they are fully informed about each item prior to the
      scheduled Committee meeting;

   2. Attend Committee meetings and arrive on time. In the event of absence or tardiness,
      members should inform the Chair or supporting staff of such absence or tardiness;

   3. Attend Committee events and perform Committee assignments related to events, goals and
      priorities of the Committee; and




                                                 7
   4. Act in a courteous and respectful manner to their fellow members, supporting staff, and the
      public during all meetings and events.
Section 2.56.080 Vacancies
A member may resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the Chair, Mayor,
City Council, and supporting staff.
Section 2.56.090 Compensation and Reimbursement
Members shall be offered a stipend for meeting attendance and reimbursement for expenses as
adopted by the City Council and at the City Council’s sole discretion.
Section 2.56.100 Meetings.
The Committee shall meet monthly or as often as it deems necessary, but not less than quarterly.
Section 2.56.110 Notice of Meetings.
The meeting agenda shall be set by the Committee Chair, Committee members or supporting staff
and is to be posted by the City Recorder in accordance with the Open and Public Meetings Act,
Utah Code §§ 52-4-102 et seq. Any Committee member, including non-voting members, may place
items be placed on Committee agendas for consideration by submitting written notice to the Chair
and staff liaison a minimum of two (2) weeks prior to the meeting.
Section 2.56.120 Quorum and Voting.
Attendance by not less than five voting members of the Committee shall be considered a quorum
for the transaction of Committee business.
Section 2.56.130 Order of Business.
Meetings shall follow the approved agenda; each meeting shall include a citizen comment period.
Attendance shall be taken at each meeting, and a list of attendees shall be included in the minutes
of the meeting. Excused and unexcused members shall also be listed.
Section 2.56.140 Recordings of Meetings.
Written minutes and an audio recording shall be kept of the proceedings of Committee meetings
by the City Recorder or their designee. Written minutes shall be provided to the City Recorder
once approved. Minutes shall be made available to the public upon request.
Section 2.56.150 Election of Chair and Vice-Chair.
The Committee shall annually elect a chair, vice-chair, and any additional officers as necessary at
the first regularly scheduled meeting of each year by majority vote after taking nominations from
the body.
Section 2.56.160 Officer Terms.
The Committee officers may serve successive terms at the sole discretion of the Committee when
it votes as a quorum in its official capacity.




                                                8
Section 2.56.170 Duties of Chair and Vice Chair
   A. The Chair shall preside at all meetings and generally perform the duties of a presiding
      officer. If the Chair is absent or unable to preside, the Vice Chair shall preside for that
      meeting. The order of business shall be as specified by the Chair and/or supporting staff.


   B. If the Chair or Vice Chair are not present, the acting chairperson shall be nominated and
      appointed by the Committee members in attendance. The temporarily appointed
      chairperson shall preside for that meeting only.
Section 2.56.180 Duties of the Committee:
   A. Create and recommend to the Council an annual budget that describes in reasonable detail
      the Committee’s proposed events for the upcoming fiscal year and the anticipated costs for
      each event.

   B. Plan, staff, and otherwise carryout events in accordance with the annual budget the City
      Council has approved.

   C. Create recommended long-range plans for the City’s civic events for the City Council to
      review and approve.

   D. In coordination with City staff, identify funding sources for Committee activities and plans
      including, but not limited to, grant funding, private funding, fundraising, philanthropic
      participation in improvements, and any other sources of funding for the purposes of the
      Committee’s duties and implementation of City civic events plans.

   E. The Committee shall make an annual report to the City Council during the first quarter of
      the calendar year. The report shall include the Committee’s goals, objectives, activities,
      recommendations, and any budgetary requests for the next fiscal year.

   F. Any other duties as may be assigned to it by the City Council of Kearns acting in its official
      capacity as the City’s Governing Body.
Section 2.56.190 City Council Action and Interaction with the Committee
   A. The City Council shall review all recommendations the Committee may issue, provided
      that no Committee recommendation shall be binding on the City Council or the City.

   B. The City Council may approve, reject, modify, or remand a recommendation to the
      Committee for further action.

   C. The City Council may direct the Committee to undertake assignments that are in addition
      to those duties set forth in this Chapter, including requiring the Committee Chair or their
      designee to provide regular updates to the City Council regarding the Committee and its
      activities.



                                                9
Section 2.56.200 Committee Rules of Order and Procedure
   A. The Committee shall create and recommend to the City Council rules of order and
      procedure to govern its meetings.

   B. The City Council shall consider all rules of order and procedure that the Committee
      recommends, which the Council may approve, reject, amend, or return to the Committee
      for further development.

2.56.110 Volunteer Status—Indemnification

Committee members shall be considered volunteers of the City and not employees, officials, or
officers of the City pursuant to the provisions of the Utah Governmental Immunity Act, Utah Code
§ 63G-7-101, et seq., in any civil action that may arise within the course and scope of the
performance of their duties under this chapter.




                                              10
                                    KEARNS CITY COUNCIL

              ORDINANCE NO. 2026-O-04                         DATE: April 13, 2026

  AN ORDINANCE OF CITY OF KEARNS CITY COUNCIL ENACTING CHAPTER
   9.97 OF THE KEARNS MUNICIPAL CODE TO ESTABLISH A COMMUNITY
                      CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM

      WHEREAS, in 2019, the Utah State Legislature enacted House Bill 411, codified at Utah
Code Ann. §§ 54-17-901 to -909 (“Act”), titled the “Community Renewable Energy Act”; and

        WHEREAS, in 2024, the Utah State Legislature enacted House Bill 241 and Senate Bill
214 which, collectively, renamed the Act the “Community Clean Energy Act” and amended
certain provisions of the Act; and

        WHEREAS, the Act authorizes the Utah Public Service Commission (“Commission”) to
establish a program (“Program”) whereby towns, municipalities, and counties may cooperate with
qualified utilities to provide electric energy for participating customers from clean energy
resources; and

        WHEREAS, the Act provides that a customer of a qualified utility may be served by the
Program if the town, municipality, or county (“Community”) in which the customer resides
satisfies certain requirements, including:

       (a) the Community must enter into an agreement with a qualified utility (“Utility
       Agreement”):

          (i) stipulating to the payment to the qualified utility of the costs of:

                (A) third-party expertise contracted for by the Division of Public Utilities
       and the Office of Consumer Services, for assistance with activities associated with
       initial approval of the Program; and

              (B) providing notice to the Community’s customers as provided in the Act;

           (ii) determining the obligation for the payment of any termination charges under
       the Act that are not paid by a participating customer and not included in
       participating customer rates; and

          (iii) identifying any initially proposed replaced asset;

       (b) the Community must, within ninety (90) days after the date of the Commission’s
       order approving the Program, adopt a local ordinance that:

          (i) establishes participation in the Program; and



                                                   1
           (ii) is consistent with the terms of the Utility Agreement; and

       (c) the Community must comply with any other terms or conditions required by the
       Commission; and

      WHEREAS, the Act further authorizes the Commission to adopt administrative rules to
implement the Act and the Commission has adopted such rules as set forth in Utah Administrative
Code R746-314-101 through -402 (“Rules”); and

        WHEREAS, the Rules require that a customer of a qualified utility may be served by the
Program if, in addition to the requirements of the Act, the Community in which the customer
resides also adopts an agreement (“Governance Agreement”) with other eligible Communities to
establish a cooperative decision-making process for Program design, resource solicitation,
resource acquisition, and other Program issues and provides a means of ensuring that eligible
Communities and those that become participating Communities will be able to reach a single joint
decision on any necessary Program issues; and

        WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Rules, Kearns entered into an
agreement with other eligible Communities entitled the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement Among
Public Entities Regarding the Community Renewable Energy Program (“Governance
Agreement”), thereby becoming a member of the Community Renewable Energy Agency
(“Agency”), which endeavors to make certain joint decisions about the proposed Program on
behalf of Communities as set forth in the Governance Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, on November 13, 2023, Kearns
executed a Utility Agreement with Rocky Mountain Power, a qualified utility under the Act, which
addresses the issues required by the Act; and

       WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, on January 24, 2025, and June 4,
2025, Rocky Mountain Power filed an application with the Commission seeking approval of the
Program and the Commission opened Docket No. 25-035-06 to consider the application; and

      WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, on March 4, 2026, the
Commission issued an order in Docket No. 25-035-06 (“Commission Order”) approving the
Program; and

        WHEREAS, as contemplated in the Act, the Kearns City Council (“Council”) desires to
adopt this ordinance that satisfies the requirements of the Act; and




                                                   2
        WHEREAS, Kearns municipal government is responsible to promote the public health and
safety of its residents, including access to clean air, clean water and a livable environment; and

       WHEREAS, the Council finds that energy sources utilized by and within Kearns therefore
can impact public health, safety and welfare; and

       WHEREAS, Kearns and its residents identified environmental sustainability as a pillar
through the Kearns – Tomorrow Together Vision & Strategic Action Plan, which included
embracing renewable energy; and

      WHEREAS, proximity to outdoor recreation is a key economic contributor to Kearns and
one which relies on preservation of the environment and protection of natural resources; and

       WHEREAS, the Council believes that determining and undertaking further actions
designed to reduce fossil fuel dependence while appropriately balancing financial stewardship and
promoting economic growth is an important component of safeguarding public health, safety and
welfare; and

       WHEREAS, the Council met in regular session on April 13th, 2026, to among other things,
consider adopting the Program on behalf of Kearns’s electric customers.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Kearns City Council that:

        1.     Adoption. Kearns Municipal Code, Chapter 9.77 Community Clean Energy
Program, which is published as a code in book form, is adopted in accordance with Exhibit A
herein, copies of which have been filed for use and examination in the Office of the Recorder (the
“Community Clean Energy Program Ordinance”).

       2.       Savings Clause. In the event one or more of the provisions of this Community Clean
Energy Program Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be unenforceable or invalid in any
respect under applicable laws, such unenforceability or invalidity shall not affect any other
provision; and in such an event, this Community Clean Energy Program Ordinance shall be
construed as if such unenforceable or invalid provision had never been contained herein.

        3.     Direction to Mayor and Staff: The Mayor and staff are authorized and directed to
take such steps as may be needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah law,
including but not limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-711; and (b)
to finalize and post the ordinance to Municode, including but not limited to making non-
substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.

       4.      Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its posting.




                                                  3
               ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the Kearns Council on this 13th day of
 April 2026.

 CITY OF KEARNS


 ___________________________________
 By: Jesse Valdez, Mayor


 ATTEST:


 ___________________________________
 Diana Baun, City Recorder


 VOTING:

 Mayor Valdez                   voting   ______
 Council Member Colby           voting   ______
 Council Member Butterfield     voting   ______
 Council Member Longtin         voting   ______
 Council Member Schaeffer       voting   ______




(Complete as Applicable)
Date ordinance summary was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code §10-3-711:
_________________________________________________________________________________
Effective date of ordinance:___________________________________________________________




                                                   4
                                          SUMMARY OF
                                        CITY OF KEARNS
                                     ORDINANCE NO. 2026-O-04

        On April 13, 2026, the Kearns City Council adopted Ordinance No. 2026-O-04 to enact Chapter 9.77
of the Kearns Municipal Code to establish a Community Clean Energy Program.

CITY OF KEARNS


___________________________________
By: Jesse Valdez, Mayor


ATTEST:



Diana Baun
City Recorder


VOTING:

Mayor Valdez                   voting   ______
Council Member Colby           voting   ______
Council Member Butterfield     voting   ______
Council Member Longtin         voting   ______
Council Member Schaeffer       voting   ______

A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2026-O-04 is available in the office of the Kearns City Recorder, 860 Levoy
Drive, Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah 84123.




                                                     5
                                              EXHIBIT A


                                            CHAPTER 9.77

                          COMMUNITY CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM


9.77.010     City Participation in Community Clean Energy Program

      A.    The City hereby establishes its participation in the Community Clean Energy
      Program (“Program”) as approved by the Public Service Commission of Utah
      (“Commission”).

      B.     On March 4, 2026, the Commission issued an order in Docket No. 25-035-06
      (“Commission Order”) approving the Program. The Commission Order is on file with the
      Commission. The Program’s rates, Rules, and requirements are governed by the
      Commission Order, and may be modified from time to time by subsequent Rules and orders
      adopted by the Commission. To the extent that the Commission Order or any subsequent
      rule or order adopted by the Commission contradicts any portion of this Title, the
      Commission order or rule or order adopted by the Commission shall govern.

      C.      Pursuant to Utah Code § 54-17-905(5), residential customers participating in the net
      metering program under Utah Code Title 54, Chapter 15, Net Metering of Electricity, Rocky
      Mountain Power Schedule 135, are not eligible to participate in the Program. All other retail
      electric customers of Rocky Mountain Power within the current and future boundaries of the
      City, including all residential, commercial, and industrial customers, are eligible to participate
      in the Program (“Eligible Customer”). Eligible Customers include rooftop solar customers on
      Rocky Mountain Power Schedules 136 and 137, which are compensated through an export
      credit rather than a net metering credit.

      D.      The Program shall be implemented on the date that RMP sends out the first Notices
      identified in Section 9.77.020, below (“Program Implementation Date”). Eligible
      Customers shall be enrolled in the Program if they receive the Notices and decline to opt
      out of participation in the Program by the date set forth in the Notices. Consistent with the
      Act and the Rules, the Notices shall be sent to each Eligible Customer before the
      commencement date that applies to each such customer (“Customer Commencement
      Date”), as set forth in the Rules.

9.77.020     Customer Participation in Program

      A.    Each Eligible Customer shall be automatically enrolled in the Program unless the
      customer opts out of the Program prior to the Customer Commencement Date.

      B.      As set forth in the Act and the Rules before any Eligible Customer becomes a
      participant in the Program, Rocky Mountain Power first shall deliver to each Eligible
      Customer certain notices (collectively, the “Notices”) containing content and in the form,
      manner, and delivery method as required by the Act and Rules and other orders and Rules.
      C.     Each Eligible Customer may elect not to participate in the Program and instead to
      pay applicable existing electric rates by giving notice to Rocky Mountain Power in the
      manner and within the time period set forth in the Notices.

             1.      Rocky Mountain Power shall provide a First Opt-Out Notice, separate from
             standard monthly bills to each Eligible Customer within the City, no earlier than
             sixty (60) days and no later than thirty (30) days before the Customer
             Commencement Date applicable to each customer. The First Opt-Out Notice shall,
             in all material respects, use the form and content of the First Opt-Out Notice as
             approved by the Commission.

             2.      Rocky Mountain Power shall provide a Second Opt-Out Notice, separate
             from standard monthly bills to each Eligible Customer within the City, at least
             fifteen (15) days after the First Opt-Out Notice was provided and at least seven (7)
             days before the Customer Commencement Date applicable to such customer. The
             Second Opt-Out Notice shall, in all material respects, use the form and content of
             the Second Opt-Out Notice as approved by the Commission.

             3.      Each Eligible Customer that receives the First Opt-Out Notice and the
             Second Opt-Out Notice as described herein and declines to opt out of the Program
             by the customer’s Customer Commencement Date will be enrolled in the Program.

      D.      An Eligible Customer located within the City that is not enrolled in the Program may
      at any time elect to participate in the Program by providing notice to Rocky Mountain Power
      in the form and content approved by the Commission. Following such notice to opt in to the
      Program, the customer will be enrolled in the Program starting with the billing period following
      the notice in which it is reasonably practicable for Rocky Mountain Power to enroll such
      customer. The reasonably practicable billing period shall be based on when the notice was
      received from the customer and the customer’s billing cycle. Following enrollment in the
      Program, the customer shall be subject to all Program requirements.

      E.    Customers enrolled in the Program may exit the Program by giving notice to Rocky
      Mountain Power.


9.77.030     Termination Fees

      A.     If a customer declines to opt out of the Program prior to the applicable Customer
      Commencement Date, but subsequently exits the Program, the exiting customer may be
      required to pay a termination fee, as set forth in this Section.

      B.      When applicable, the amount of the termination fee shall be based on the rate schedule
      of the exiting customer as approved by the Commission and may be modified from time to
      time by subsequent orders of the Commission.

      C.     A Termination Fee shall not apply in the following circumstances:


                                                 7
             1.     Any customer that opts out of the Program within the “Cancellation Period”
             applicable to that customer, as defined in the Rules.

              2.     Any customer that ceases to be an electric customer of Rocky Mountain Power;

              3.     Any customer that moves to a new location that is not within the boundaries
              of a community that participates in the Program;

              4.     Any customer that seeks protection through bankruptcy proceedings; or

              5.    Any customer enrolled in Schedule 3 bill assistance (“Low-Income Lifeline
              Program”).

9.77.040     Acquisition of Clean Energy Resources

      A.      For purposes of this section, “clean energy resource” shall have the definition set
      forth in the Act.

      B.     Rocky Mountain Power may adopt or procure one or more clean energy resources
      to serve the needs and goals of the Program. The acquisition of any such clean energy
      resource must follow solicitation application and evaluation criteria approved by the
      Commission.

      C.     Any clean energy resource adopted or procured by Rocky Mountain Power to serve
      the needs and goals of the Program must be approved by the Commission based on a
      finding the same is reasonable and in the public interest.

      D.     The Commission shall determine the method of cost recovery for any clean energy
      resource acquired to meet Program needs and goals, and the Commission’s determination
      regarding cost recovery may affect Program rates.

9.77.050     Program Rates and Rate Adjustment Filings

      A.     Program rates will be determined by the Commission.

      B.     The initial Program rates were determined by the Commission in the Commission
      Order.

      C.     Program rates may be adjusted by the Commission from time to time, consistent with
      the procedures approved by the Commission for adjusting Program rates.

9.77.060     Utility Billing for Participating Customers

      A.     Rocky Mountain Power shall bill each Participating Customer on a monthly basis
      and shall:

             1.      Include information in its monthly bills to participating customers
             identifying the Program cost; and

                                                 8
             2.      Provide notice to participating customers of any change in rates for
             participation in the Program.

9.77.070     City Participation in Program

      A.      Through its membership in the Community Renewable Energy Agency, the City
      participated in the design and approval of the Program and shall participate in future
      decisions regarding clean energy resource solicitation, clean energy resource acquisition,
      and certain other Program issues.

      B.     Consistent with Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(a), the City entered into an agreement
      with Rocky Mountain Power (“RMP”) regarding the facilitation of the Program (“Utility
      Agreement”). Pursuant to the Utility Agreement, the City:

             1.     Shall pay for the costs of third-party expertise contracted for in connection
             with the Program’s development and initial approval by the Commission;

             2.      Shall pay its proportional costs associated with RMP providing the Notices
             to the City’s customers as discussed in 19.77.020, above;

             3.      Termination charges not paid by a participating customer shall be included
             in participating customer rates and shall not be paid by the City; and

             4.     There shall be no initially proposed “Replaced Asset” as that term is defined
             by Utah Code § 54-17-902(15).

      C.      The City has already approved the appropriation of funds and has already paid those
      funds to the Agency for the Agency to make payments for the costs of third-party expertise
      contracted for in connection with the Program’s development and initial approval by the
      Commission pursuant to the Governance Agreement.

      D.     The City has approved the appropriation of funds to pay its proportional costs
      associated with RMP providing the Notices to the City’s customers as discussed in Section
      19.97.020, above.

      E.      The City shall not be obligated to pay any costs of the Program other than those
      costs set forth herein and any costs that the City may bear as a utility customer that
      participates in the Program, if applicable.




                                                9
                      4956 West 6200 South   P.O. Box 527      Kearns, Utah 84118



                                EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
                                        Issued [insert date]

POSITION: The City of Kearns is seeking an agile, high-impact strategic City Administrator to
serve as the primary architect of the City’s operational and administrative success and the lead
voice for its community narrative. The City Administrator will be the City’s first official employee.


SALARY: $95,000 - $140,000.


BENEFITS: ?


LOCATION: This is a hybrid/work-from-home position that will require frequent in-person
meetings within Kearns and along the Wasatch Front.


CLOSING DATE AND APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS. To apply, please email a cover letter
and resume to [insert email address] by 5:00 p.m. (Mountain) on [insert date].


ABOUT KEARNS: Kearns is a new urban municipality that operates under a five-member form
of municipal government, with a voting Mayor and four City Council members. Located in the
heart of Salt Lake County, Kearns has a diverse, multi-cultural population of 38,000 people living
in approximately 4.63 square miles, making it one of Utah’s most densely populated cities.

Kearns is also the home of the Utah Olympic Oval, which has the “Fastest Ice on Earth” and was
the speed skating venue for the 2022 Olympic Winter Games. As a result, Kearns is a training
hub for local, national, and international athletes, and hosts various world cup and championship
speed skating events each year. Kearns will again be an Olympic venue site during the 2034 Utah
Olympic Winter Games, and the City is actively engaged in various related economic
development, real estate acquisition, and other projects.

Kearns is unique because it does not have a traditional staff. Instead, it receives its municipal
services through various special districts, interlocal entities, and other contracted service
providers. These include the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD), which provides
administrative staff, planning and development, code enforcement, business licensing,
engineering, accounting, and other services. Because Kearns does not have the typical human
resources and other related administrative responsibilities inherent in most municipalities. The
City Administrator will be the City’s first employee.
                                                  1
JOB DESCRIPTION: The City Administrator will serve as Kearns’ chief administrative officer.
Operating under a "lean" administrative model, this is not a traditional "desk job" managing a large
internal bureaucracy. As a result, this is a high-level strategic liaison role that will require you to
act as the relentless "watchdog" for Kearns’ interests and to oversee the services it receives from
its services providers to ensure that every tax dollar translates into high-quality infrastructure and
services.

Key responsibilities will include:

       Integrated Contract Advocacy: Serving as the "Single Point of Truth" for the Council by
        overseeing and auditing the services Kearns receives from its service providers. You will
        not only manage a contract; you will ensure the work (potholes, streetlights, code
        enforcement) is visible, verified, and valued by the taxpayers.
   
       Strategic Narrative & PIO: Managing the city’s brand and public presence.This role
        treats communication as a core utility—ensuring residents, media partners, and regional
        stakeholders are consistently engaged through a professional digital presence and
        transparent reporting.

       Grant & Olympic Architecture: Proactively identifying and securing the state and
        federal funding necessary to prepare Kearns for the 2034 Olympic Winter Games.

       Policy Velocity: Moving Council resolutions from "vote" to "action" with urgency. You are
        the high-level troubleshooter who clears the path for progress, coordinating between legal,
        regional partners, and the public.

       General Administration:

            •   Providing assistance and support to the Mayor and City Council.
            •   Preparing and posting agendas in coordination with the Mayor and Recorder.
            •   Working with the Mayor, City Council, and City Attorney to develop and implement
                City ordinances and resolutions.
            •   Serving as the liaison between the City and multiple service providers.
            •   Monitoring, analyzing, and evaluating legislation and other intergovernmental
                activities affecting the City; prepare and/or coordinate appropriate responses to
                legislation impacting City operations and the community.
            •   Serving as a project manager for a variety of special projects; facilitating project
                activities and resolve problems; developing and submitting project reports to the
                Mayor and City Council.
            •   Managing Kearns City’s social media campaign, including the City’s website.
            •   Conceptualizing, developing, and managing the City’s public relations programs.
            •   Attending key leader engagements; participate in and manage multiple councils’
                meetings, e.g. Kearns City Council and MSD meetings.
            •   Establishing and maintaining the City’s staff and community performance
                management goals and programs.
            •   Assisting MSD departments in detailed research and analysis.

                                                  2
           •       Serving as a staff liaison for a variety of boards and commissions.
           •       Emergency Operations and Continuity Operations, development, planning, and
                   liaising.
           •       Helping with the development and application of grants that support the City’s
                   needs.
           •       Coordinating the preparation of reports to the Mayor and City Council, including
                   recommendations concerning various municipal problems and their solutions
                   through appropriate policy development. Assists in monitoring and development of
                   the city-wide budget.
           •       Preparing for and gives oral presentations to the City Council, MSD staff, other
                   service providers, and the public.
           •       Reviewing policies and procedures established by the departments of the MSD to
                   ascertain their interface with policy development of the Mayor. Recommending
                   changes in City departmental policies where appropriate.
           •       Helping develop policies and procedures designed to facilitate the effective and
                   efficient conduct of governmental business.
           •       Oversee City staff, if additional staff are hired.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

       Education:
            • Bachelor’s degree in public administration, political science, business
               administration or related field required or similar work experience.
            • Master of Public Administration (MPA), Master of Science in Management and
                Leadership (MSML), Juris Doctor (JD), or related field preferred; additional work
                experience may be substituted for education.

       Experience:

               •    7–12+ years of progressive municipal, public sector, and leadership experience.
               •    We are seeking a professional with the "backbone" to hold regional partners
                    accountable and the sophisticated communication skills to lead an Olympic
                    venue host city. As a result, prior experience with large sporting events, economic
                    redevelopment, and new municipalities is highly preferred.

       General Knowledge and Skillset:

               •    Knowledge of project management principles.
               •    Knowledge of municipal budgeting.
               •    Knowledge of City and departmental policies and procedures.
               •    Knowledge of general supervisory and managerial principles and practices.
               •    Knowledge of public relations, communications, marketing, and basic graphic
                    design skills.
               •    Knowledge of the legislative process at the federal, state, and municipal level.
                    Skills/Abilities:
               •    Skill in communicating effectively, both orally and in writing.
               •    Skill in computer programs, including Microsoft Office Suite.

                                                    3
              •   Basic skills with public relations, communications, and marketing platforms
                  such as, Constant Contact, Canva, Adobe Creative Cloud, Google Workspace,
                  Zoom, Teams, etc.
              •   Ability to problem solve and prioritize competing interests.
              •   Ability to manage multiple projects/tasks simultaneously.
              •   Ability to perform complex skills, including statistics, research data analysis,
                  finance, and interpret charts and graphs.
              •   Contract auditing, grant writing, crisis communications, and inter-agency
                  diplomacy.
              •   This position may require use of personal vehicles on City business.
                  Individuals must be physically capable of operating the vehicles safely,
                  possess a valid Utah driver’s license, and have a good driving record.


WORKING CONDITIONS AND PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS

       The physical demands described here are representative of those that must be met by an
        employee to successfully perform the essential functions of this job. Reasonable
        accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the
        essential functions.
       This position requires work in a wide variation of conditions, from a typical office setting to
        field work. Must be able to attend evening meetings and some weekend events.
       This position is subject to intermittent exposure to high stress situations caused by human
        behavior.
       While performing the duties of this job, the employee is frequently required to sit, walk,
        move, talk and hear/listen.
       The employee is required to use hands to finger, handle, feel objects, tools, or controls;
        and reach with hands and arms.
       The employee must occasionally lift and/or move up to 25 pounds.
       Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision and the ability to adjust
        focus unless otherwise required by management.


 WHY APPLY: As the city’s primary envoy to the 2034 Olympic Committee and its chief
 communicator, you will be the face of Kearns—translating complex policy into clear community
 updates, securing critical state and federal grants, and ensuring our neighborhoods are "Olympic-
 ready." We are looking for a "doer" with the diplomatic sophistication to navigate state-level
 politics and the technical grit to audit a maintenance portal. If you are a leader with a talent for
 strategic communication and a passion for building a lasting municipal legacy, Kearns City is your
 stage.

 Work Environment & Flexibility: While Kearns will be your focus, the City prioritizes impact
 over presence. This role is designed for a modern professional who can manage high-level
 strategy from anywhere along the Wasatch Front, provided they are ready to engage when the
 "real world" calls.

       Remote-First Flexibility: You do not need to reside in Kearns. Many of the administrative,
        strategic, and communication tasks can be performed remotely.
       The "Kearns & MSD" Touchpoints: While there is no daily "clock-in" at a desk, you will
        utilize the Kearns office, the MSD, and other service providers for high-stakes face-to-face
                                                  4
        meetings, directing operational staff, or coordinating with regional partners and the Council
        when digital collaboration isn't enough.
       Field Work & Oversight: Physical presence is required for essential field work to audit City
        projects and ensure that MSD service levels (potholes, streetlights, code enforcement)
        meet the "Olympic-ready" standard.

The Kearns Opportunity: A Once-in-a-Career Legacy: Most municipal roles are about
maintaining the status quo. In Kearns, you will be expected to set the stage. As a primary host
community for the 2034 Winter Olympics, Kearns is entering a transformative decade. This
position offers a unique "front-row seat" to international sports diplomacy and state-level
infrastructure planning.

       The Olympic Legacy: You won't just be managing a city; you will be ensuring that the
        2034 Games leave a permanent, positive fingerprint on our neighborhoods.
       The "Hybrid" Authority: Unlike traditional roles where you are siloed behind a desk, this
        position is designed for a high-visibility leader. You have the rare autonomy to craft the
        City’s brand from the ground up.
       Impact Without the Red Tape: Because we operate on a "lean" model, you aren't
        burdened by layers of internal bureaucracy. You have the direct line to the Council and
        the agility to see your strategies move from a memo to the "real world" in record time.


DISCLAIMER

The Kearns is an equal opportunity employer without regard to race, religion, sex, pregnancy,
genetic information, age, national origin, color, sexual orientation, gender identity, citizenship,
disability, veteran or military status, or any other factor protected by the law. Reasonable
accommodations may be made for otherwise qualified individuals who require and request such
accommodation.

The intent of this job description is to provide a representative summary of the major
responsibilities and duties performed on the job. It is not an exhaustive list of all job-related duties
and responsibilities that an employee may perform. An employee in this position will be required
to perform any other job-related duties required by their supervisor. This job description is not
intended to and does not infer or create any employment, compensation, or contract rights to any
person or persons. This updated job description supersedes prior descriptions for the same
position. The City reserves the right to add or change duties at any time.




                                                   5
Information briefing: Community Clean
Energy Program approval

Discussion and consideration of Ordinance
[name/number] Enacting the Community
Clean Energy Program
[Date] [Presenter(s)]
 Outline
  •   Refresher: what is the Community Clean Energy Program?
  •   PSC order approving the program and program rates
  •   Anticipated timeline
  •   Program ordinance
      • Ordinance details: what does it do?
      • Discussion and consideration of ordinance

The 19 communities involved in this effort adopted “Utah Renewable Communities” (URC) as an informal name
for this work. It should be noted that the formal name of the program is the Community Clean Energy Program.
                          The two terms will be used interchangeably in this presentation.
About the URC program
• The Community Clean Energy Program is a brand new program giving Utahns the
  ability to choose clean, reliable, affordable clean energy through Rocky Mountain
  Power (RMP)
• The Community Clean Energy Program was designed through a partnership
  between RMP and the Community Renewable Energy Agency (aka the URC, of
  which we are a member), and in March 2026, the program was approved by the
  Utah Public Service Commission (PSC)
• If we adopt the program, all eligible RMP customers in our community will have a
  new option for choosing clean energy through their power bill
• By investing in clean energy, URC will help meet Utah’s growing energy needs while
  keeping power reliable and air cleaner for generations
Driving clean energy development
                                           Goals
  ➢ Drive the development of clean energy while keeping the program affordable and accessible
 ➢ Build enough program resources to match the amount of electricity used annually by participants
Renewable options comparison
The Community Clean Energy Program developed by URC and RMP offers a unique option for customers who
want to access clean energy:
 ● Blue Sky allows participants to voluntarily contribute $1.95 per 100 kWh “block” or 1.95 cents per kWh to
    support renewable energy by:
      ○ Supporting grants to help organizations offset the cost of rooftop solar and
      ○ Fund the purchase of renewable energy certificates (RECs) nationwide
 ● Subscriber Solar offers shares in an existing 20 MW solar farm in Southern Utah. Participation is capped and
    RMP has not indicated they plan to build more projects for this program
 ● Customers with the resources that own their home or business can install rooftop solar. Doing so supports
    renewable energy growth and directly lowers monthly bills by producing at least a portion of the electricity
    used by the home or business

    By supporting the development of large-scale, new, and regionally based clean energy projects, the
     Community Clean Energy Program can create impact that is unique to other clean energy options.
                              Program development process
                                                                                                                 6
    Enabling          Net-100%             Governance               Utility               Program              Program           Participation
 Legislation and      Resolution           Agreement              Agreement              Application          Approved!           Ordinance
 Rules Adopted         Adopted               Signed                 Signed               Submitted




Utah legislature   23 communities        19 communities           All communities     Filed by RMP with     Utah PSC reviewed      Communities
   and PSC             adopted                signed           signed & RMP to sign     significant URC     and released order   decide whether to
                                                                                         involvement                                   adopt
  Established      Established clean    Adopted interlocal      Outlines roles and                          Resource valuation
requirements &      energy goal for    agreement to join the    responsibilities to   Included testimony     method and first    Within 90 days of
defined pathway     initial Program         Community            take effect upon       and hearings to       power purchase       PSC approval,
   to develop        eligibility. No    Renewable Energy        program approval        detail how URC       agreement (PPA)     decide whether to
    program         longer required      Agency (aka URC            and launch         program will work     approval pending        enact URC
                                              board)                                  and projected rates                             program


                                                                                         Nov 2024;
      2019          Mar-Dec 2019          2021 – 2024                2024                                    March 4, 2026       By June 2, 2026
                                                                                      Jan and Jun 2025
PSC order
•     On March 4th, the PSC issued an order approving the Community Clean Energy Program
•     The order addressed key details like the initial program rate and customer opt out details, while
      leaving more complex issues for a follow up ruling
•     What does this mean?
       • The order allows the URC program to move forward!
       • The 90-day clock for communities to consider the ordinance has begun (until June 2)
       • While the program is readied for launch, the URC board and support staff and RMP will
          continue collaborating with the other Parties* in the docket to propose solutions to remaining
          issues to the PSC
       • At the same time, URC and RMP will conduct negotiations with clean energy developers
          towards executing a contract for the first URC program resources

    *Other Parties includes: Division of Public Utilities, Office of Consumer Services, Sierra Club, and
                                       Western Resource Advocates
Anticipated timeline




    “Implementation” = when customer noticing begins. Currently estimated in late 2026
     “Commencement” = when rate collection begins. Currently estimated in early 2027
 Initial program rate: residential flat fee

       Eligible residential customers:                          Qualifying low income residential
                $4 per month                                        customers: $0 per month
      $3.88 monthly program participation fee +                     $3.88 monthly program participation fee -
   $0.12 monthly surcharge for low income program                      $3.88 monthly enhanced bill credit
                 = $4.00 per month                                            = $0.00 per month




                                                       Eligibility
    All residential customers in participating communities are eligible to participate except those on Schedule 135.
Residential customers in participating communities with rooftop solar on Schedule 136 or 137 are eligible to participate.
How do customers qualify for the low
income offerings?




                      Qualified low income customers can:
                              ➢ Participate for free
                     ➢ Opt out any time with no termination fee
Initial program rate: non-residential
volumetric rate
         Non-residential customers: $0.00609 per kWh used per month + $0.12 monthly
                          surcharge for low income program per month.
                The total monthly cost depends on the amount of electricity used.

                         Example scenario: a medium office building used 6,880 kWh in May
                           Without the program, their total RMP bill is $847.39 for the month
                With the program, the bill is an additional $42.02 for a total of $889.41, a ~5% increase




                                                         Eligibility
 All non-residential customers in participating communities are eligible to participate except those with rooftop solar on
 Schedule 135. Non-residential customers in participating communities with rooftop solar on Schedule 136 or 137 are
                                                  eligible to participate.
Program rates: long term
 •   Like all utility rates, the rates for the Community Clean Energy Program will be
     periodically adjusted and communicated accordingly
 •   Adjustments will occur no more than annually per the statute
 •   The PSC order says the following:

          "While future Program rates may diverge from those under RMP’s
          proposal contingent on later determinations regarding Resource Valuation
          and changes to other underlying variables, no evidence in the record
          suggests that Program rates are likely to meaningfully increase from
          the initial rates approved in this order. Instead, under RMP’s
          proposal, they would decrease rather significantly after the first two
          years. At the Program’s inception, customers will be deciding whether to
          opt-out with reference to rates that are likely to be higher than rates
          charged later, after the reserve balances are sufficiently established."
Customer opt out
                             Program-eligible customers can opt out at any time
            There is no termination fee if a customer opts out within the six month “cancellation period
      Noticing period begins
                                           Program rate collection begins
   “Program Implementation”                                                         No fee cancellation period ends
                                              “Program Commencement”
No fee cancellation period begins

      ~2 months / billing cycles                                 ~4 months / billing cycles


  ●    Customers can opt out at any time
        ○ If during the cancellation period, there is no fee to exit
        ○ After the cancellation period, a $30 termination fee for residential customers
        ○ The termination fee varies depending on rate Schedule for non-residential customers
  ●    Customers moving into or annexed into a participating community will be provided with a similar noticing and
       cancellation period, and can also exist the program any time
Ordinance [name/number] requirement

•   Per Community Clean Energy Act and Utah Code § 54-17-903(3) governing the program:
    “an eligible community identified in the application must pass an ordinance…in order
    to become a participating community” and “the local ordinance…shall be adopted by
    the municipality or county within 90 days after the date of the commission order
    approving the community clean energy program”
•   Therefore, we and the other 18 URC members have until June 2nd to adopt the ordinance if
    we want to enact the approved program within our boundaries
About ordinance [name/number]
•   URC and RMP were required to include a draft of the ordinance in the Program Application
    filed with the PSC in 2025
      • URC’s outside attorney, Phil Russell, drafted the ordinance in 2022 with input from several
         URC board members and their municipal attorneys on the URC Program Design
         Committee. The board adopted this as the draft model ordinance through Resolution 23-
         01 in January 2023
      • Ahead of the Program Application being filed, the board adopted an updated model
         resolution in January 2025 through Resolution 2025-02. The updates reflected changes to
         Utah code made during the 2024 legislative session and other minor changes
•   Following the PSC order on March 4th, the ordinance was updated one more time to reflect
    the order, and was then distributed to all 19 communities to finalize
Ordinance preamble
The preamble lays out the history and context for the development of the Community Clean
Energy Program, and the steps our community took to be eligible to enact the program:
•   2019 passage of HB 411 Community Renewable Energy Act, later changed to the
    Community “Clean” Energy Act, creation of rules adopted by the PSC
•   Requirement that interested communities had to come together under a governance
    agreement to enable cooperative decision-making among communities and with RMP
•   The requirement that interested communities sign a Utility Agreement with the utility and
    then adopt an ordinance following adoption of the program by the PSC
•   Optional details about our community’s health, safety, welfare, environmental stewardship,
    and other motivations to participate in the program
Ordinance details
•   The ordinance adopts the Community Clean Energy Program
     • Put another way: by vote of [our Council / Commission], our community is opted in, then all eligible
        RMP customers in our community have the choice whether to stay in the program or opt out
•   Details covered in Exhibit A to the ordinance:
     • All customers except those on Schedule 135 are eligible
     • Program implementation begins the day that RMP sends the first notices. RMP must provide two
        notices to each customer, each separate from the monthly bill
     • Customers are automatically enrolled and can opt out anytime by providing notice to RMP
     • There are circumstances in which a customer does not pay a termination fee for opting out: during
        the “cancellation period”, ceasing to be a RMP customer or moving out of a participating community,
        undergoing bankruptcy proceedings, or being enrolled in Schedule 3 bill assistance
     • Clean energy resources can be acquired by RMP for the program
     • The PSC determines the program rate and can approve adjustments to the rates
     • RMP is responsible for billing customers and notifying them of changes to the program rate
Ordinance details (continued)
Communities that adopt the program are responsible for:
 • Entering into a utility agreement (we have already signed the utility agreement)
 • Reimbursing RMP for the cost of providing two notices to all customers
 • Contributing funds to pay for third-party consultants used by the Office of Consumer Services and
   Division of Public Utilities to evaluate the program (we completed this when we signed the governance
   agreement and contributed funds to the Agency’s budget)
 • No other costs associated with the program, including termination fees not paid by a customer within our
   boundaries

The ordinance does not spell out every detail regarding how the URC program works, instead, it refers to the
              PSC order, administrative rules, and legislative act (HB 411) for specific details
Policy analysis/recommendation

•   As part of RMP’s service territory, our community’s options for supporting clean energy through the
    utility are limited. The Community Clean Energy Program has been designed to provide a new choice
    for all homes and businesses to choose clean energy through RMP by supporting clean energy
    development at scale
•   The Act and Rules created a pathway for communities to come together and with RMP apply to the
    PSC to launch this new program. It has been a careful and intentional process
•   The Community Clean Energy Program is our community’s best choice for making clean energy
    available to the entire community. If we do not adopt the ordinance, the choice to participate in the
    Community Clean Energy Program goes away
•   Working to support clean energy aligns with our community’s mission of promoting the health, safety,
    and welfare of the community
Summary and next steps
Key takeaways & requested action
•   The Community Clean Energy Program, should we choose to enact it, will provide a new
    opportunity for all eligible homes and businesses within our community to choose clean energy
    through their RMP bill
•   The Program was recently approved by the Utah Public Service Commission which starts a 90-day
    clock for us to decide whether to enact the approved program by adopting an ordinance
•   Ordinance [name/number] is available for [our council/commission] to discuss and consider
    adopting
    •   If we adopt the ordinance, we will officially bring the Community Clean Energy Program to our
        community and we will continue to be part of the URC board, collaborating with RMP to launch
        and operate the program
    •   If we do not adopt the ordinance, the Community Clean Energy Program will not be an option
        for our community and we will no longer be part of the URC board
Name and Contact Information:

Subject:
   ● Informational briefing regarding Community Clean Energy Program March 4, 2026 “Order
       Approving Program with Modifications” from the Utah Public Service Commission
   ● Public hearing / public input regarding Ordinance Enacting the Community Clean Energy
       Program (aka Utah Renewable Communities)
   ● Discussion and consideration of Ordinance enacting Community Clean Energy Program (aka
       Utah Renewable Communities)

Date:

Presenter(s):

Document Type:

Recommendation/Requested Action: [Provide staff with questions, hold public input session,
consider a vote to approve the ordinance]

***
Summary of Key Points
    ● The Utah Public Service Commission (PSC) approved the Community Clean Energy Program
      program on March 4, 2026.
    ● Our community has been engaged in the effort to build the Community Clean Energy
      Program since [year]. This effort is informally referred to as the Utah Renewable
      Communities (URC).
    ● Following the recent PSC approval, all 19 communities involved have one final decision to
      determine whether to enact the final program within our respective boundaries by
      adopting the program ordinance. The ordinance adoption process runs 90 days from the
      PSC order through June 2, 2026.
    ● The Community Clean Energy Program, should our community choose to enact it, will
      provide a new opportunity for nearly all homes and businesses within our community to
      choose clean energy through their Rocky Mountain Power (RMP) bill. A new line item will
      be added to customer RMP bills to support the investment in clean energy, with the option
      to exit at any time.



                                             1
    ● The program is several months from kicking off. It is estimated that customers won’t
      receive notices alerting them that the program is about to start until the end of 2026.
      Then, the new URC clean energy line item on their bill would start in early 2027
      (estimated).
    ● The initial residential rate set by the PSC is $4 per month and income-eligible customers
      can receive a bill credit, enabling them to participate for free
    ● The program supports the addition of new, utility-scale clean energy development to the
      RMP grid, and is distinct from other clean energy offerings.
    ● Ordinance [name/number] is available for our [council/commission] to discuss and
      consider adopting.
          ○ If we adopt the ordinance, it will officially bring the Community Clean Energy
              Program to our community and we will continue to be part of the URC Agency,
              collaborating with RMP to launch and operate the program.
          ○ If we do not adopt the ordinance, the Community Clean Energy Program will not be
              an option for our community and we will no longer be part of the URC Agency.

Background
Legislative background
During the 2019 General Session, the Utah State Legislature passed the Utah Community
Renewable Energy Act (Act) 1, Utah State Code §54-17-901 to §54-17-909 2 (later renamed the
“Community Clean Energy Act” in 2024 3), creating a pathway for communities to work together to
establish a new clean energy program in partnership with Rocky Mountain Power (RMP), a
subsidiary of PacifiCorp, for residents and businesses in participating communities. Rules
Governing the Community Clean Energy Program (Rules), Utah Administrative Code R746-314 4,
were also adopted in 2019 by the Utah Public Service Commission (PSC) to implement the Act. The
Act and associated Rules outlined a process whereby interested communities could work with
RMP to develop a Program Application that the utility could file with the PSC on behalf of those
communities. This effort and program is more frequently called the Utah Renewable Communities
(URC). During the 2026 legislative session, additional amendments were adopted by the State
legislature to this section of code 5 regarding additional customer noticing and opt out features.



1 See https://le.utah.gov/~2019/bills/static/HB0411.html
2 State Code §54-17-901 to §54-17-901: https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title54/Chapter17/54-17-S901.html?v=C54-17-

S901_2024050120240501
3 See https://le.utah.gov/~2024/bills/static/HB0241.html
4 Utah Administrative Code R746-314: https://adminrules.utah.gov/public/rule/R746-314/Current%20Rules
5 See https://le.utah.gov/~2026/bills/static/HB0238.html



                                                       2
These changes are not anticipated to have a significant impact on the Program and are pending
the Governor’s signature.

Throughout this document, “Community Clean Energy Program” and “URC” will be used
interchangeably, but it is important to note that the program is formally called the Community
Clean Energy Program in statute and by the PSC.

Community involvement
To pursue this opportunity, and as contemplated by the original version of the Act, 23 Utah
communities established clean energy goals, taking the first step towards participating in the
effort to jointly design a program in partnership with RMP. Eighteen of the original 23 interested
communities continued participating by adopting the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement Among
Public Entities Regarding the Community Renewable Energy Program, creating the Community
Renewable Energy Agency (Agency), known informally as URC. Following a change to the enabling
legislation in 2024 6 which removed the requirement that a community establish a clean energy
goal in order to be eligible to participate, one additional community, Midvale City, joined the
Agency in 2024, bringing the number of participating communities to 19.

Three subcommittees were formed by the board in 2021 to advance program development: the
Program Design, Low-Income Plan, and Communications Committees. Board members and
support staff from URC communities appointed to and supporting these committees have worked
diligently and thoughtfully since 2021 to design the program, with the Program Design Committee
working closely with the Agency’s legal and technical consultants and directly with RMP to
negotiate the program. In addition, board officers serving in the roles of Chair, Vice-Chair,
Treasurer, and Secretary have been appointed by the board over the years to assist in managing
the Agency’s finances, planning and running meetings, documenting the Agency’s activities, and
organizing the appointed board members from each of the 19 member communities.

What is the goal of URC and how would this work?
The goal of the program is to drive the development of clean energy while keeping the program
affordable and accessible for customers and to build enough program resources to match the
amount of electricity used annually by program participants. While no longer required for
communities to have joined the Agency, the URC board still aims to push for making net-100%
clean electricity available to homes and businesses in participating communities by 2030,
however, this target may be adjusted over time.

6 See https://le.utah.gov/Session/2024/bills/static/SB0214.html



                                                        3
The clean energy counting towards the Community Clean Energy Program is proposed to come
from both existing clean energy on the grid plus new clean energy projects specifically built to
serve program eligible customers. These resources are and will be part of the PacifiCorp grid.
PacifiCorp is RMP's parent company whose grid serves six states7, including Utah. The URC
program has been developed and will be implemented in collaboration with RMP, and all URC
participants will remain RMP customers. RMP will continue to be required to provide reliable
power to all customers, regardless of a customer’s URC participation status. Additional details
about how the program will work are provided later in this document and are further defined
through the Act, Rules, Program Application, and March 4th (and possibly future) PSC Orders.

Why create a new clean energy option?
Participating Communities, as defined under the Act, are served by RMP – i.e., they do not have
their own municipal utilities – and their options for procuring clean energy resources are,
therefore, limited. The URC program offers homes and businesses in our community a new option
for supporting clean energy. Furthermore, the program creates a unique opportunity to drive
investment in new clean energy at scale, since collectively URC members represent about 25% of
RMP's electricity sales in Utah 8, and in total, RMP serves about 80% of the electric load in Utah.

There are a variety of other reasons for communities to be involved in driving more clean energy
development in Utah, including economic development, particularly for rural communities,
promoting energy sources that do not create air pollution, and more. Utah is facing a worrisome
energy shortage, as our energy supply is projected to decrease while demand continues to rise,
according to Governor Cox’s Operation Gigawatt 9. URC is part of the solution: the program will add
hundreds of megawatts of new clean energy to the RMP grid to support our communities’ clean
energy goals and the region’s growing energy needs. By adding new clean energy to our electricity
mix, URC is part of the solution of creating a more reliable energy supply for Utah.

The electricity used to power our homes and businesses comes from a collection of power plants
connected to our grid. This includes electricity generated by natural gas, coal, wind, solar,
hydropower, and more. Throughout the day, power plants are dispatched to generate enough


7 In February 2025, PacifiCorp announced their plans to exit Washington, which will reduce the number of states they

operate in to five in the coming years: https://www.pacificorp.com/about/newsroom/news-releases/pacificorp-to-
sell-washington-service-area-to-pge.html
8 This estimate is based on the 19 currently participating communities. It is possible that not all 19 communities enact

the final program by passing the ordinance
9 Information on Operation Gigawatt: https://energy.utah.gov/homepage/about-us/operation-gigawatt/



                                                         4
electricity to meet the demand. Wind and solar power plants have no fuel costs, so they are often
dispatched before coal and gas plants which do have fuel costs. When coal and natural gas plants
generate electricity, greenhouse gases and air pollutants are emitted into the atmosphere as a
byproduct. By adding more clean energy to the grid, the URC program may reduce how often fossil
fuel plants need to run, avoiding pollution that would otherwise have been created.

In addition to the environmental and health benefits, the URC program supports economic growth
by bringing new energy development to areas of the state that are hotspots for solar, wind, or
other clean energy development. New clean energy projects create construction and operational
jobs; can provide resources to public schools via the Trust Lands Administration if projects are
sited on certain state land; support private landowners if sited privately; and add to local counties’
tax base. These benefits were captured in a recent study by The Western Way 10.

Program comparison
Homes, businesses, and local governments served by RMP have a few different ways to access
clean energy. The URC program is distinct from existing offerings:
    ● The Blue Sky program has been around for nearly 26 years and allows participants to
       voluntarily contribute at $1.95 per 100 kWh “block” or 1.95 cents per kWh to support
       renewable energy. Blue Sky is an important program that supports grants to help
       organizations offset the cost of rooftop solar. Blue Sky participants also fund the purchase
       of renewable energy certificates (RECs) nationwide which, while helpful to the industry,
       does not significantly catalyze the growth of new utility-scale clean energy.
    ● Subscriber Solar offers RMP customers shares in an existing 20 MW solar farm in Southern
       Utah. While allowing customers to directly purchase a share of clean energy is an
       important benefit compared with Blue Sky, Subscriber Solar has a capped participation
       opportunity and RMP has not indicated they plan to build more projects to make available
       to additional subscribers.
    ● Customers can individually install rooftop solar on their homes or businesses. This is an
       important option to support renewable energy growth and energy security. However, it’s
       expensive and only available to some types of customers with the funding and property
       types that allow for it.

For these reasons, the Community Clean Energy Program developed by URC and RMP offers a
unique option for customers.



10 The Economic Benefits of Utah’s Rural Renewable Energy Industry: https://www.thewesternway.org/ut-eco-devo



                                                     5
How and why did [our community] get involved?
Our community has completed all required steps to be at this point in the process and is now at
the final decision point of whether to enact the program ordinance. This process is outlined in
Attachment A.

We became involved in [year] to contribute to the effort to create a new option for clean energy
for homes and businesses in our community. Joining the URC Agency provided an opportunity to
advance our mission in promoting the health, safety, and welfare of residents and our
[sustainability] [environmental stewardship] [clean air] [supporting future generations] [etc] goals.

When our community joined the Agency, we made a financial contribution to the Agency’s budget,
along with every other community that joined. The amount that each community contributed was
proportional to our community’s population and electricity load.

We signed the Utility Agreement along with the other Participating Communities in time to be
included in RMP’s initial Program Application filing in January 2025. Now that the PSC has
approved the program, we have a final decision as to whether to adopt the program ordinance.
Doing so would bring the approved Community Clean Energy Program to all homes and businesses
within our community.

Public Service Commission Order and Program Solicitation
Program approval
As described by step 5 in Attachment A, the Act and Rules dictated that the proposed Community
Clean Energy Program be filed by RMP with the PSC. Following years of careful work and
negotiations between the URC and RMP, on January 24, 2025, and June 4, 2025, RMP submitted
parts I and II, respectively, of a two-part Application to Implement Community Clean Energy
Program Authorized by the Community Clean Energy Act (Docket 25-035-06 11). As required by the
Act, the Program Application included, among other items, information about the customers
within the boundaries of the participating communities, projected rates under the proposed
program, a Utility Agreement between each participating community and RMP, low-income plans
for each community, a draft ordinance that establishes an eligible community’s participation in the
program, and more. Rounds of direct, rebuttal, and surrebuttal testimony by the Parties to the
docket followed. The process concluded with a Hearing and Public Witness Hearing in front of the
PSC on December 16 and 17, 2025. The Parties to the docket are: RMP, URC, the Division of Public



11 Docket No: 25-035-06: https://psc.utah.gov/2025/01/25/docket-no-25-035-06/



                                                     6
Utilities (DPU), the Office of Consumer Services (OCS), Western Resource Advocates, and the Sierra
Club. Each party participated in the rounds of testimony and the hearing.

On March 4, 2026, a significant milestone was achieved when the Utah PSC issued an Order 12 in
Docket 25-035-06 (“Order”) approving the Program with modifications. The PSC ruling was
generally favorable for the program and URC Agency interests and provides clarity on how the
program will work, the initial cost to participate, and more. However, the PSC did not resolve
every issue the URC Agency and RMP raised in this docket. For unresolved items, the Order
provided guidance and clear action items for the communities and RMP to move forward.

The PSC approval of the Program on March 4, 2026, set off the 90-day ordinance adoption
window, as required by the statute. Each URC community has until June 2, 2026, to pass the
required ordinance to formally adopt the Program. More information about the ordinance is
provided in the “Program Ordinance” section below.

Program Solicitation
Separately and ahead of the Program Application, on November 19, 2024, RMP filed an
Application for Approval of Solicitation Process13 with the PSC describing the proposed process to
solicit bids from clean energy developers (Docket 24-035-55 14). The PSC granted the application 15,
clearing the way for URC to issue a Request for Proposals (RFP) on May 22, 2025 16. Fifteen bids
were initially received by the July 10 RFP deadline, one of which was later withdrawn 17. From
there, these bids were evaluated and scored by URC technical consultants, and an “initial short
list” of six projects was selected by URC for further evaluation by RMP. URC received the results of
this analysis in December 2025 and used this information to create a “final short list”. In February
2026, the URC board approved Resolution 2026-02 18 selecting all four final short list projects for
power purchase agreement (PPA) negotiations. PPA negotiations are currently underway and the
process to execute an agreement with one or more projects will eventually coincide with follow up
on the Program Application and preparations towards implementing the URC program.


12 March 4, 2026 Order: https://pscdocs.utah.gov/electric/25docs/2503506/3441662503506oapwm3-4-2026.pdf
13 See https://pscdocs.utah.gov/electric/24docs/2403555/336616Application11-19-2024.pdf
14 Docket No. 24-035-55 on the PSC website: https://psc.utah.gov/2024/11/19/docket-no-24-035-55/
15 See https://pscdocs.utah.gov/electric/24docs/2403555/3397642403555ogrmpaam5-13-2025.pdf
16 URC RFP website: https://www.urc2024rfp.com/
17 URC blog post regarding responses to the RFP: https://www.utahrenewablecommunities.org/post/urc-closes-the-

call-for-clean-energy-resources-the-response-was-outstanding
18 URC Resolution 2026-02 Resolution of the Board Selecting Projects for Contract Negotiation:

https://www.utah.gov/pmn/files/1387795.pdf


                                                        7
Program Details
Customer participation and opt-out
The URC program was established under statute as an “opt-out” program, meaning that every
eligible RMP customer in a community which adopts the program ordinance will be automatically
enrolled with the option to exit at any time. Customers in these communities will see a new clean
energy line item (“Schedule 100”) on their RMP bills as early as the first quarter of 2027. The new
line item will only appear after certain additional processes by the Agency and RMP are completed
and approved by the PSC.

This means that if our [council/commission] adopts the ordinance, all eligible RMP customers in
[our community] will be automatically enrolled when the Program commences, likely not until
early 2027, with the choice to opt out. Customers will be able to exit the program at any time.
There will be an initial “cancellation period” whereby customers exiting the program can do so
without incurring a termination fee. After the “cancellation period” customers can still exit at any
time but will be subject to a termination fee. The termination fees are outlined in Attachment B.

Initial program rate
One of the most significant outcomes of the PSC Order is the establishment of the initial program
rate. The PSC Order established an initial residential flat rate totaling $4 per month ($3.88 per
month plus a $0.12 low-income program surcharge). This amount is in line with the Agency’s
targeted dollar amount to keep the program affordable and accessible to customers.

The low-income proposal from the Agency was also approved by the PSC. Income-qualified
residents who are on Schedule 3 (RMP’s Home Electric Lifeline Program, or HELP 19) will see a
monthly rate of $3.88 which would be matched by a $3.88 credit on their bill, making the program
free for these customers.

For all other (non-residential) customer classes, the PSC approved a volumetric rate of $0.00609
per kWh and a low-income surcharge of $0.12 per month. Bill impacts for these commercial
customers will depend on the amount of electricity they use each month.

Program rates over time



19 Information on RMP bill assistance: https://www.rockymountainpower.net/my-account/payments/bill-payment-

assistance.html


                                                    8
Rates will be adjusted periodically (not more than annually) in order to account for actual
customer participation, annual administrative cost true-ups, and the program valuation and
resource costs. Regular rate adjustments happen with all other utility ratemaking and are not
unique to the URC program. It is not expected that future URC rates will increase significantly from
the initial program rate. Importantly, the PSC in its Order recognized that future rates may even
decline as the required administrative and resource reserve funds are established. Page 24 of the
PSC Order states:

     While future Program rates may diverge from those under RMP’s proposal
     contingent on later determinations regarding Resource Valuation and changes to
     other underlying variables, no evidence in the record suggests that Program rates
     are likely to meaningfully increase from the initial rates approved in this order.
     Instead, under RMP’s proposal, they would decrease rather significantly after the
     first two years. At the Program’s inception, customers will be deciding whether to
     opt-out with reference to rates that are likely to be higher than rates charged later,
     after the reserve balances are sufficiently established.

While this is not guaranteed and will be influenced by multiple factors including additional future
resource procurements, the PSC found it within the public interest to allow the Program to begin
with an initial fixed rate of $4 per month.

Customer noticing and estimated timeline
There are two distinct but important milestones in executing the Program, defined in the
Order/State law.
   ● “Program Implementation” happens when the first customer notices are mailed.
   ● “Program Commencement” is when RMP initiates collection of Program rates.

Once the ordinance deadline of June 2 passes and RMP concludes its customer service upgrades
(i.e. the “Startup Activities”) which are estimated to take approximately five months, RMP
customers in a participating community will receive their first official notices about the Program.
The first noticing date is defined as the beginning of “Program Implementation.”

All eligible RMP customers in communities that adopt the Ordinance will receive two notices that
are separate from their bills. This includes at least one mailed notice. The second notice will be
mailed or digital, depending on customer communication preferences (i.e. if the customer has
signed up for online billing.) Large commercial customers on Schedules 8 or 9 that have an electric
load of one megawatt or greater will be offered a noticing meeting, which may be conducted in-


                                                9
person or via video conference. All RMP customers in a participating community will be eligible for
the Community Clean Energy Program except for customers with rooftop solar on Schedule 135.

The URC Agency forecasts that customer noticing will begin in late 2026. As required in the Act and
Rules and the Utility Agreement, any community that enacts the program (by passing the
ordinance) is responsible for reimbursing RMP for the cost of providing the two required notices to
all program eligible RMP customers within the community’s boundaries. This expense is estimated
to be [$XX] for [our community].

After the first notices go out, there will be two billing cycles, or approximately 60 days, until the
clean energy line item appears on RMP customer bills. This period of initial Program rate collection
is defined as “Program Commencement.” The Agency is estimating that Program Commencement
will occur in early 2027.

Please note that Utah House Bill 238 from 2026 passed and is currently awaiting the Governor’s
signature. This bill adds additional requirements for the customer notices that are not expected to
add additional burden to the already planned noticing process.

Program Ordinance
How the ordinance was developed
A draft of the ordinance was included in the Program Application filed by RMP in 2025 as required
by the Act and Rules. The ordinance was originally drafted in 2022 and 2023 by URC’s outside
attorney with input from several municipal attorneys representing communities on the URC
Program Design Committee. The URC board adopted this first draft of the template ordinance
through Resolution 2023-01 20 in January 2023. Prior to the filing of the Program Application, the
board adopted an updated template ordinance through Resolution 2025-02 21. This next version
was updated to reflect changes to the Act and Rules that removed the requirement that
communities adopt a renewable energy goal by the end of 2019 to be eligible to participate.

Following the March 4, 2026 PSC Order, URC board members and our outside attorney prepared
final revisions to the template ordinance. These edits included minor changes like updating the
date of the PSC order and other changes to clarify where program details live, whether in the Act,
Rules, Program Application, or PSC order. The version of the ordinance before our



20 URC board resolution 2023-01: https://www.utah.gov/pmn/files/929135.pdf
21 URC board resolution 2025-02: https://www.utah.gov/pmn/files/1220655.pdf



                                                    10
[council/commission] is the final template ordinance personalized for our community (see
Attachment C).

Ordinance details
The ordinance must do two key things:
   ● Enact the approved program by the community adopting the ordinance and
   ● Make it clear that the PSC has the final say on how the program will work.

There are three sections in the ordinance that cover the following:
   ● Preamble: describes the history and context for development of the URC program,
       including the Act, Rules, Program Application, and PSC order. The preamble also lays out
       the steps [our community] took to be eligible to enact the program. The preamble is the
       one part of the ordinance that may look different for each of the 19 communities
       depending on how each community chooses to describe their reasoning for being part of
       the program.
   ● Program adoption: while short in length, this is the “action” of the ordinance - that the
       community’s governing body votes to adopt the Community Clean Energy Program.
   ● Exhibit A: provides an overview of the program, not by spelling out every detail regarding
       how the URC program works, but by referring to the PSC order, Administrative rules, and
       Legislative Act (HB 411) for specific details. Exhibit A also describes key elements of the
       approved program that will occur if [our community] adopts the ordinance. This includes:
           ● Enabling all retail electricity customers in the current and future boundaries of [our
               community] to participate in the Program. Customers with rooftop solar are eligible
               to participate, except those on Schedule 135 (the older net metering schedule).
           ● Defining the program “Implementation Date” as the date when RMP sends out its
               first notices to customers of their forthcoming enrollment in the Program and
               describing the noticing requirements of RMP.
           ● Explaining that eligible customers will be enrolled in the Program if they receive
               notices and decline to opt-out by the date used in the notices and that any
               customer in a participating community who is not enrolled in the Program may opt-
               in at any time. Customers in the program can exit at any time.
           ● Acknowledging the Termination Fees for customers who opt out after the
               cancellation period and situations when Termination Fees will not occur.
           ● Describing the process and approvals needed for clean energy acquisition to serve
               the Program.
           ● Acknowledging that the PSC determines the Program rate and can approve
               adjustments to the rates periodically.


                                              11
           ● Acknowledging that RMP is responsible for billing customers and notifying them of
             changes to the Program rate.
           ● Describing the responsibilities of [our community] with the program, including:
                ○ That [our community] has participated in the design and approval of the
                    Program and will continue to participate in future decisions regarding clean
                    energy resource solicitation, acquisition, and other issues.
                ○ That [our community] entered into the Utility Agreement with RMP
                    regarding the program. [Our community] signed the Utility Agreement on
                    [date]. The Utility Agreement is consistent for all communities and RMP, as
                    required by statute.
                ○ Per the Utility Agreement, [our community] will reimburse RMP for their
                    costs to provide the two required notices to all eligible customers within our
                    boundary.
                ○ That [our community] already allocated and paid funds (when we joined the
                    Agency) which, in part, were used to reimburse the OCS and DPU for their
                    costs of contracting third-party expertise to evaluate the program.

Summary, Next Steps, and Requested Action
After seven years of thoughtful, intentional, and complex work to design, negotiate, and apply for
approval, the Community Clean Energy Program has been approved by the Utah Public Service
Commission. This milestone starts a 90-day clock for each of the 19 communities involved in URC
to consider enacting the approved program by adopting the program ordinance by June 2, 2026.
The PSC order established an initial program rate for residential and non-residential customers and
approved what was proposed and some modifications to the customer noticing and opt out
process. Some details of the program, including the specific methodology of how program
resources will be valued and the approval of the first program resource will require follow up with
the PSC. URC will continue working with RMP and the other parties to the PSC docket to pursue
and seek approval for these follow up items in parallel to the ordinance adoption timeline.

The following are the next steps and requested action for [our community council/commission]:
   ● Provide questions and feedback on the material presented
   ● Discuss and consider the program ordinance




                                              12
List of Attachments
    ● Attachment A: Process to develop the Community Clean Energy Program
    ● Attachment B: Termination fee per customer class for Schedule 100, which is the rate
        schedule for Community Clean Energy Program participants
    ● Attachment C: The final program ordinance for consideration




                                             13
     Attachment A




14
                          Attachment B
Information on termination fees included in the Program Application




                              15
16
                                     Attachment C Ordinance


                                       [COMMUNITY]
                                     ORDINANCE NO. [#]

     AN ORDINANCE OF [COMMUNITY] ENACTING TITLE [#/NAME], CHAPTER
      [#/NAME] TO THE [COMMUNITY] CODE, COMMUNITY CLEAN ENERGY
                               PROGRAM

                                           Preamble

      WHEREAS, in 2019, the Utah State Legislature enacted House Bill 411, codified at Utah
Code Ann. §§ 54-17-901 to -909 (“Act”), titled the “Community Renewable Energy Act”; and

        WHEREAS, in 2024, the Utah State Legislature enacted House Bill 241 and Senate Bill
214 which, collectively, renamed the Act the “Community Clean Energy Act” and amended
certain provisions of the Act; and

        WHEREAS, the Act authorizes the Utah Public Service Commission (“Commission”) to
establish a program (“Program”) whereby towns, municipalities, and counties may cooperate with
qualified utilities to provide electric energy for participating customers from clean energy
resources; and

        WHEREAS, the Act provides that a customer of a qualified utility may be served by the
Program if the town, municipality, or county (“Community”) in which the customer resides
satisfies certain requirements, including:

       ● the Community must enter into an agreement with a qualified utility (“Utility
       Agreement”):

          o stipulating to the payment to the qualified utility of the costs of:

                ▪ third-party expertise contracted for by the Division of Public Utilities
       and the Office of Consumer Services, for assistance with activities associated with
       initial approval of the Program; and

              ▪   providing notice to the Community’s customers as provided in the Act;

           o determining the obligation for the payment of any termination charges
       under the Act that are not paid by a participating customer and not included in
       participating customer rates; and

          o    identifying any initially proposed replaced asset;



                                               17
       ● the Community must, within ninety (90) days after the date of the
       Commission’s order approving the Program, adopt a local ordinance that:

           o establishes participation in the Program; and is consistent with the terms of the Utility
             Agreement; and

       ● the Community must comply with any other terms or conditions required by
       the Commission; and

      WHEREAS, the Act further authorizes the Commission to adopt administrative rules to
implement the Act and the Commission has adopted such rules as set forth in Utah Administrative
Code R746-314-101 through -402 (“Rules”); and

        WHEREAS, the Rules require that a customer of a qualified utility may be served by the
Program if, in addition to the requirements of the Act, the Community in which the customer
resides also adopts an agreement (“Governance Agreement”) with other eligible Communities to
establish a cooperative decision-making process for Program design, resource solicitation,
resource acquisition, and other Program issues and provides a means of ensuring that eligible
Communities and those that become participating Communities will be able to reach a single joint
decision on any necessary Program issues; and

        WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Rules, [COMMUNITY] entered into
an agreement with other eligible Communities entitled the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement
Among Public Entities Regarding the Community Renewable Energy Program (“Governance
Agreement”), thereby becoming a member of the Community Renewable Energy Agency
(“Agency”), which endeavors to make certain joint decisions about the proposed Program on
behalf of Communities as set forth in the Governance Agreement; and

        WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, [COMMUNITY] executed a
Utility Agreement with Rocky Mountain Power, a qualified utility under the Act, on [DATE],
which addresses the issues required by the Act; and

       WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, on January 24, 2025, and June
4, 2025, Rocky Mountain Power filed an application with the Commission seeking approval of
the Program and the Commission opened Docket No. 25-035-06 to consider the application; and

      WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, on March 4, 2026, the
Commission issued an order in Docket No. 25-035-06 (“Commission Order”) approving the
Program; and

       WHEREAS, as    contemplated       in     the    Act,       the     [COMMUNITY
COUNCIL/COMMISSION] desires to adopt this ordinance that satisfies the requirements of the
Act; and




                                               18
       WHEREAS, the [COMMUNITY COUNCIL/COMMISSION] desires to take actions
which it has determined promotes the health, safety and welfare of [COMMUNITY]’s residents;
and

       WHEREAS, the [COMMUNITY COUNCIL/COMMISSION] has determined that
adoption of this ordinance will enhance the economic well-being of [COMMUNITY] and its
residents through prudent management of [COMMUNITY]’s financial resources; and

       WHEREAS, the [COMMUNITY COUNCIL/COMMISSION] has determined that
adoption of this ordinance will help address concerns related to poor air quality and other
environmental concerns due in part to the use of fossil fuels; and

        WHEREAS, the [COMMUNITY COUNCIL/COMMISSION] finds that energy sources
utilized by and within [COMMUNITY] therefore can impact public health, safety and welfare;
and

        WHEREAS, recent advances in energy technology have made certain clean energy
resources more economically viable than in the past and, in some cases, more cost-effective than
traditional energy sources; and

        WHEREAS, proximity to outdoor recreation is a key economic contributor to
[COMMUNITY] and one which relies on preservation of the environment and protection of
natural resources; and

       WHEREAS, [COMMUNITY] and its residents have shown an interest in environmental
stewardship through various initiatives and activities surrounding growth and development; and

        WHEREAS, [include description of Participating Community’s prior sustainability
actions]; and

       WHEREAS, the [COMMUNITY COUNCIL/COMMISSION] believes that determining
and undertaking further actions designed to reduce fossil fuel dependence while appropriately
balancing financial stewardship and promoting economic growth is an important component of
safeguarding public health, safety and welfare; and

        WHEREAS, the [COMMUNITY COUNCIL/COMMISSION] met in regular session on
[DATE],to, among other things, consider adopting the Program on behalf of [COMMUNITY’s]
electric customers; and

    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE BODY OF
[COMMUNITY] AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Adoption. [COMMUNITY] Code, Title [#/NAME], Chapter [#/NAME], Community
Clean Energy Program, which is published as a code in book form, is adopted in accordance with
Exhibit A herein, copies of which have been filed for use and examination in the Office of the

                                              19
[COMMUNITY CLERK/RECORDER] (the “Community Clean Energy Program Ordinance”).

Section 2. Savings Clause. In the event one or more of the provisions of this Community Clean
Energy Program Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be unenforceable or invalid in any
respect under applicable laws, such unenforceability or invalidity shall not affect any other
provision; and in such an event, this Community Clean Energy Program Ordinance shall be
construed as if such unenforceable or invalid provision had never been contained herein.

Section 3. Effective Date. This Community Clean Energy Program Ordinance shall take effect
immediately upon the date of its first publication.

APPROVED, ADOPTED, AND PASSED and ordered published by the [COMMUNITY
COUNCIL/COMMISSION], this [DAY] of, 2026.




                                             20
ATTEST:                                 [COMMUNITY COUNCIL/COMMISSION]

_____________________________________   ___________________________________________


Name: _____________________             Name: ________ __________
[COMMUNITY CLERK/RECORDER]              [COUNCIL/COMMISSION CHAIR]



                                        VOTING OF [COUNCIL/COMMISSION]

                                        ____________________________            ___
                                        ____________________________            ___
                                        ____________________________            ___
                                        ____________________________            ___
                                        ____________________________            ___

APPROVED AS TO FORM:


_____________________________


Name:________________________
[CITY/COUNTY ATTORNEY]




                                          21
                                               EXHIBIT A

                                             TITLE [#/NAME]

                                          CHAPTER [#/NAME]

                           COMMUNITY CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM


       SECTION 1. [COMMUNITY’S] PARTICIPATION IN COMMUNITY CLEAN
       ENERGY PROGRAM

      1.1   [COMMUNITY] hereby establishes its participation in the Community Clean
Energy Program (“Program”) as approved by the Public Service Commission of Utah
(“Commission”).

       1.2    On March 4, 2026, the Commission issued an order in Docket No. 25-035-06
(“Commission Order”) approving the Program. The Commission Order is on file with the
Commission. The Program’s rates, Rules, and requirements are governed by the Commission
Order, and may be modified from time to time by subsequent Rules and orders adopted by the
Commission. To the extent that the Commission Order or any subsequent rule or order adopted by
the Commission contradicts any portion of this Title, the Commission order or rule or order
adopted by the Commission shall govern.

       1.3     ELIGIBLE CUSTOMERS. Pursuant to Utah Code § 54-17-905(5), residential
customers participating in the net metering program under Utah Code Title 54, Chapter 15, Net
Metering of Electricity, Rocky Mountain Power Schedule 135, are not eligible to participate in the
Program. All other retail electric customers of Rocky Mountain Power within the current and
future boundaries of [COMMUNITY], including all residential, commercial, and industrial
customers, are eligible to participate in the Program (“Eligible Customer”). Eligible Customers
include rooftop solar customers on Rocky Mountain Power Schedules 136 and 137, which are
compensated through an export credit rather than a net metering credit.

        1.4     IMPLEMENTATION DATE. The Program shall be implemented on the date that
RMP sends out the first Notices identified in Section 2, below (“Program Implementation Date”).
Eligible Customers shall be enrolled in the Program if they receive the Notices and decline to opt
out of participation in the Program by the date set forth in the Notices. Consistent with the Act and
the Rules, the Notices shall be sent to each Eligible Customer before the commencement date that
applies to each such customer (“Customer Commencement Date”), as set forth in the Rules.


       SECTION 2. CUSTOMER               PARTICIPATION           IN    COMMUNITY           CLEAN
       ENERGY PROGRAM.

       2.1     Each Eligible Customer shall be automatically enrolled in the Program unless the

                                                 22
customer opts out of the Program prior to the Customer Commencement Date.

       2.2    NOTICES. As set forth in the Act and the Rules before any Eligible Customer
becomes a participant in the Program, Rocky Mountain Power first shall deliver to each Eligible
Customer certain notices (collectively, the “Notices”) containing content and in the form, manner,
and delivery method as required by the Act and Rules and other orders and Rules.

        2.3.   OPT-OUT. Each Eligible Customer may elect not to participate in the Program
and instead to pay applicable existing electric rates by giving notice to Rocky Mountain Power in
the manner and within the time period set forth in the Notices.

               2.3.1 FIRST OPT-OUT NOTICE. Rocky Mountain Power shall provide a First
       Opt-Out Notice, separate from standard monthly bills, to each Eligible Customer within
       [COMMUNITY], no earlier than sixty (60) days and no later than thirty (30) days before
       the Customer Commencement Date applicable to each customer. The First Opt-Out Notice
       shall, in all material respects, use the form and content of the First Opt-Out Notice as
       approved by the Commission.

              2.3.2 SECOND OPT-OUT NOTICE. Rocky Mountain Power shall provide a
       Second Opt-Out Notice, separate from standard monthly bills, to each Eligible Customer
       within [COMMUNITY], at least fifteen (15) days after the First Opt-Out Notice was
       provided and at least seven (7) days before the Customer Commencement Date applicable
       to such customer. The Second Opt-Out Notice shall, in all material respects, use the form
       and content of the Second Opt-Out Notice as approved by the Commission.

             2.3.3 Each Eligible Customer that receives the First Opt-Out Notice and the
       Second Opt-Out Notice as described herein and declines to opt out of the Program by the
       customer’s Customer Commencement Date will be enrolled in the Program.

        2.4     CUSTOMER OPTION TO OPT IN TO PROGRAM.                     An Eligible Customer
located within [COMMUNITY] that is not enrolled in the Program may at any time elect to
participate in the Program by providing notice to Rocky Mountain Power in the form and content
approved by the Commission. Following such notice to opt in to the Program, the customer will
be enrolled in the Program starting with the billing period following the notice in which it is
reasonably practicable for Rocky Mountain Power to enroll such customer. The reasonably
practicable billing period shall be based on when the notice was received from the customer and
the customer’s billing cycle. Following enrollment in the Program, the customer shall be subject
to all Program requirements.

                       2.5   CUSTOMER OPTION TO EXIT PROGRAM. Customers enrolled
               in the Program may exit the Program by giving notice to Rocky Mountain Power.


       SECTION 3. TERMINATION FEES



                                               23
        3.1    If a customer declines to opt out of the Program prior to the applicable Customer
Commencement Date, but subsequently exits the Program, the exiting customer may be required
to pay a termination fee, as set forth in this Section.

        3.2    When applicable, the amount of the termination fee shall be based on the rate
schedule of the exiting customer as approved by the Commission and may be modified from time
to time by subsequent orders of the Commission.

      3.3     CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICH TERMINATION FEE SHALL NOT APPLY: A
Termination Fee shall not apply in the following circumstances:

               3.3.1   Any customer that opts out of the Program within the “Cancellation Period”
                       applicable to that customer, as defined in the Rules.

               3.3.2   Any customer that ceases to be an electric customer of Rocky Mountain
                       Power;

               3.3.3   Any customer that moves to a new location that is not within the boundaries
                       of a community that participates in the Program;

               3.3.4   Any customer that seeks protection through bankruptcy proceedings;

               3.3.5   Any customer enrolled in Schedule 3 bill assistance (“Low-Income Lifeline
                       Program”).


       SECTION 4. ACQUISITION OF CLEAN ENERGY RESOURCES

        4.1     For purposes of this section, “clean energy resource” shall have the definition set
forth in the Act.

        4.2    Rocky Mountain Power may adopt or procure one or more clean energy resources
to serve the needs and goals of the Program. The acquisition of any such clean energy resource
must follow solicitation application and evaluation criteria approved by the Commission.

       4.3    Any clean energy resource adopted or procured by Rocky Mountain Power to serve
the needs and goals of the Program must be approved by the Commission based on a finding the
same is reasonable and in the public interest.

       4.4     The Commission shall determine the method of cost recovery for any clean energy
resource acquired to meet Program needs and goals, and the Commission’s determination
regarding cost recovery may affect Program rates.


       SECTION 5. PROGRAM RATES AND RATE ADJUSTMENT FILINGS


                                                24
         o    Program rates will be determined by the Commission.

         o    The initial Program rates were determined by the Commission in the Commission
Order.

                     o       Program rates may be adjusted by the Commission from time to
              time, consistent with the procedures approved by the Commission for adjusting
              Program rates.


         SECTION 6. UTILITY BILLING FOR PARTICIPATING CUSTOMERS

                    o       Rocky Mountain Power shall bill each Participating Customer on a
              monthly basis and shall:

              ▪      include information in its monthly bills to participating customers
                     identifying the Program cost; and

              ▪      provide notice to participating customers of any change in rates for
                     participation in the Program.


         SECTION 7. [COMMUNITY] PARTICIPATION IN PROGRAM

                      o        Through its membership in the Community Renewable Energy
              Agency, [COMMUNITY] participated in the design and approval of the Program
              and shall participate in future decisions regarding clean energy resource
              solicitation, clean energy resource acquisition, and certain other Program issues.

                       o     Consistent with Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(a), [COMMUNITY]
              entered into an agreement with Rocky Mountain Power (“RMP”) regarding the
              facilitation of the Program (“Utility Agreement”). Pursuant to the Utility
              Agreement, [COMMUNITY]:

              ▪      shall pay for the costs of third-party expertise contracted for in connection
                     with the Program’s development and initial approval by the Commission;

              ▪      shall pay its proportional costs associated with RMP providing the Notices
                     to the [COMMUNITY’S] customers as discussed in Section 2, above;

              ▪      Termination charges not paid by a participating customer shall be included
                     in participating customer rates and shall not be paid by [COMMUNITY];

              ▪      There shall be no initially proposed “Replaced Asset” as that term is defined


                                              25
       by Utah Code § 54-17-902(15).

         o       [COMMUNITY] has already approved the appropriation of funds
and has already paid those funds to the Agency for the Agency to make payments
for the costs of third-party expertise contracted for in connection with the Program’s
development and initial approval by the Commission pursuant to the Governance
Agreement.

       o       [COMMUNITY] [has approved/hereby approves] the appropriation
of funds to pay its proportional costs associated with RMP providing the Notices to
the [COMMUNITY’S] customers as discussed in Section 2, above.

      o        [COMMUNITY] shall not be obligated to pay any costs of the
Program other than those costs set forth herein and any costs that [COMMUNITY]
may bear as a utility customer that participates in the Program, if applicable.




                                 26
   Community Impact Coordinator
City of Kearns | Part-Time: $24,000 – $35,000

Location: Must reside within Kearns City limits.

   Core Mission

You are the voice of the City and the ears of the neighborhood. Your job is to humanize local
government by turning complex city operations—from visionary master plans and beautification
projects to public works (MSD) updates and neighborhood standards—into clear, engaging
stories that empower our residents. Working closely with the City Administrator and
stakeholders, you will bridge the gap between City Hall and the community to ensure every
resident is informed, heard, and inspired.




   Key Responsibilities

   ●​ Visionary Storytelling: Partner with the City Administrator and Creative Content
      Creator to share the "Big Picture" for Kearns. Help residents see the long-term benefits
      of new developments and city-wide goals.
   ●​ Service & Safety Liaison: Act as the primary bridge between residents and key
      providers, including the Municipal Services District (MSD) and the Unified Police
      Department (UPD). Translate technical updates on infrastructure, road repairs, and
      public safety into resident-friendly information.
   ●​ Stakeholder Coordination: Maintain active communication channels with local partners
      to ensure a unified flow of information regarding all Kearns community services.
   ●​ Business Engagement: Gather insights from current local businesses to understand
      their needs and work to attract new businesses by sharing the Kearns success story.
   ●​ Neighborhood Vitality & Education: Drive "proactive compliance" by educating the
      public on city standards. Whether it’s a beautification grant or a code update, focus on
      the why and the how-to to improve our neighborhoods.
   ●​ Community Pulse-Taking: Conduct regular outreach and surveying to identify
      emerging trends, concerns, or success stories within Kearns.
   ●​ Media Advocacy: Utilize a communications background to draft press releases and
      pitch positive Kearns stories to local media outlets, ensuring our city’s progress is
      recognized regionally.
   Qualifications & Requirements

   ●​ Kearns Residency: Must be a current resident of Kearns (Required).
   ●​ Communication Background: Preference given to candidates with experience in
      Public Relations, Communications, or Journalism and an ability to reach local media.
   ●​ Collaborative Spirit: Ability to work seamlessly with the City Administrator and creative
      teams to produce educational content.
   ●​ Relationship Builder: A natural "people person" who can navigate conversations with
      business owners, stakeholders, and diverse resident groups.




   Why Join the Kearns Team?

In 2026, Kearns is more than just a place to live—it’s a city on the move. As our Community
Impact Coordinator, you have the unique opportunity to shape the narrative of your own
neighborhood and help build a "Visionary Kearns" from the ground up.
Docusign Envelope ID: 3197E723-63CA-4313-B334-EAC81B770A83



                                                                                                      Contract #            246488

                                                  STATE OF UTAH CONTRACT
 1.     CONTRACTING PARTIES: This contract is between the following agency of the State of Utah:
        Department Name: Natural Resources Agency Code: 560 Division Name: Office of Energy Development, referred to as the State
        Entity, and the following Contractor:

            Sustainable Real Estate Solutions, Inc.                                                                   LEGAL STATUS OF CONTRACTOR
                                                 Name                                                                     Sole Proprietor
            179 Main State #61                                                                                            Non-Profit Corporation
                                                Address                                                                   For-Profit Corporation
            Monroe                                    CT                  06468                                           Partnership
            City                                      State               Zip                                             Government Agency

         Contact Person: Brian J McCarter Phone # 203-459-0567 Email: bmccarter@paceworx.com
         Vendor # VC205852 Commodity Code # 80100
 2.     GENERAL PURPOSE OF CONTRACT: The general purpose of this contract is to provide: C-PACE Administration
 3.     PROCUREMENT: This contract is entered into as a result of the Solicitation               RQM# or              RQS# 560 250E000002,
        Solicitation# AS24-119, Solicitation Type: RFP.
 4.     CONTRACT PERIOD: Effective Date: 07/01/2024 Termination Date: 06/30/2029 unless terminated early or extended in accordance
        with the terms and conditions of this contract. Renewal options (if any): none.
 5.     CONTRACT COSTS: CONTRACTOR will be paid a maximum of $0.00 for costs authorized by this contract. Prompt Payment
        Discount (if any): n/a. Price Guarantee Period (if any): term of the contract. Additional information regarding costs: n/a.
 6.     ATTACHMENT A: State of Utah Standard Terms and Conditions for      Goods or     Services
        ATTACHMENT B: Scope of Work
        ATTACHMENT C: N/A
        ATTACHMENT D: N/A
        Any conflicts between Attachment A and the other Attachments will be resolved in favor of Attachment A.
 7.      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED INTO THIS CONTRACT BY REFERENCE BUT NOT ATTACHED:
         a.  All other governmental laws, regulations, or actions applicable to the goods and/or services authorized by this contract.
         b.  Utah State Procurement Code, Procurement Rules, the Solicitation, and Contractor’s response to the Solicitation.
 8.     Each person signing this Agreement represents and warrants that he/she is duly authorized and has legal capacity to execute and deliver
        this Agreement and bind the parties hereto. Each signatory represents and warrants to the other that the execution and delivery of the
        Agreement and the performance of each party’s obligations hereunder have been duly authorized and that the Agreement is a valid and
        legal agreement binding on the parties and enforceable in accordance with its terms. Further, that Contractor is registered with the Utah
        Department of Commerce and is in good standing.
        The parties sign and cause this contract to be executed. This contract is not fully executed until the State of Utah Approving Authorities
        have signed this contract.

       CONTRACTOR                                                              STATE ENTITY
        Brian McCarter
      Brian McCarter (Jul 12, 2024 11:53 EDT)
                                                          07/12/2024           Dusty Monks (Jul 12, 2024 09:54 MDT)
                                                                                                                                             07/12/2024
        Contractor's signature                            Date                   Agency's signature                                          Date

       Brian McCarter                                    CEO
        Type or Print Name and Title
                                                STATE OF UTAH APPROVING AUTHORITIES

                                                           7/19/2024

        Director, Division of Purchasing                  Date

               Jayden Ellsworth                   801-419-8765                      jellsworth@utah.gov
               Agency Contact Person              Telephone Number                  Email
                                                                                                                                             (Revision 11/15/2023)
Docusign Envelope ID: 3197E723-63CA-4313-B334-EAC81B770A83

                        ATTACHMENT A: STATE OF UTAH STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR SERVICES
       This is for a contract for services (including professional services) meaning the furnishing of labor, time, or effort by a contractor.
       1.   DEFINITIONS: The following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
            a)   “Confidential Information” means information that is deemed as confidential under applicable state and federal laws,
                 including personal information. The State Entity reserves the right to identify, during and after this Contract, additional
                 reasonable types of categories of information that must be kept confidential under federal and state laws.
            b)   “Contract” means the Contract Signature Page(s), including all referenced attachments and documents incorporated by
                 reference. The term “Contract” may include any purchase orders that result from this Contract.
            c)   “Contract Signature Page(s)” means the State of Utah cover page(s) that the State Entity and Contractor sign.
            d)   “Contractor” means the individual or entity delivering the Services identified in this Contract. The term “Contractor” shall
                 include Contractor’s agents, officers, employees, and partners.
            e)   “Custom Deliverable” means the Work Product that Contractor is required to deliver to the State Entity under this
                 Contract.
            f)   “Services” means the furnishing of labor, time, or effort by Contractor pursuant to this Contract. Services include, but
                 are not limited to, all of the deliverable(s) (including Custom Deliverable, supplies, equipment, or commodities) that result
                 from Contractor performing the Services pursuant to this Contract. Services include those professional services identified
                 in Section 63G-6a-103 of the Utah Procurement Code.
            g)   “Proposal” means Contractor’s response to the State Entity’s Solicitation.
            h)   “Solicitation” means the documents used by the State Entity to obtain Contractor’s Proposal.
            i)   “State Entity” means the department, division, office, bureau, agency, or other organization identified on the Contract
                 Signature Page(s).
            j)   “State of Utah” means the State of Utah, in its entirety, including its institutions, agencies, departments, divisions,
                 authorities, instrumentalities, boards, commissions, elected or appointed officers, employees, agents, and authorized
                 volunteers.
            k)   “Subcontractors” means subcontractors or subconsultants at any tier that are under the direct or indirect control or
                 responsibility of the Contractor, and includes all independent contractors, agents, employees, authorized resellers, or
                 anyone else for whom the Contractor may be liable at any tier, including a person or entity that is, or will be, providing or
                 performing an essential aspect of this Contract, including Contractor’s manufacturers, distributors, and suppliers.
            l)   “Work Product” means every invention, modification, discovery, design, development, customization, configuration,
                 improvement, process, software program, work of authorship, documentation, formula, datum, technique, know how,
                 secret, or intellectual property right whatsoever or any interest therein (whether patentable or not patentable or
                 registerable under copyright or similar statutes or subject to analogous protection) that is specifically made, conceived,
                 discovered, or reduced to practice by Contractor or Contractor’s Subcontractors (either alone or with others) pursuant to
                 this Contract. Work Product shall be considered a work made for hire under federal, state, and local laws; and all interest
                 and title shall be transferred to and owned by the State Entity. Notwithstanding anything in the immediately preceding
                 sentence to the contrary, Work Product does not include any State Entity intellectual property, Contractor’s intellectual
                 property (that it owned or licensed prior to this Contract) or Third Party intellectual property.

       2.   GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE: This Contract shall be governed by the laws, rules, and regulations of the State of Utah.
            Any action or proceeding arising from this Contract shall be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in the State of Utah.
            Venue shall be in Salt Lake City, in the Third Judicial District Court for Salt Lake County.
       3.   LAWS AND REGULATIONS: At all times during this Contract, Contractor and all Procurement Items delivered and/or
            performed under this Contract will comply with all applicable federal and state constitutions, laws, rules, codes, orders, and
            regulations, including applicable licensure and certification requirements. If this Contract is funded by federal funds, either in
            whole or in part, then any federal regulation related to the federal funding, including CFR Appendix II to Part 200, will
            supersede this Attachment A.
       4.   RECORDS ADMINISTRATION: Contractor shall maintain or supervise the maintenance of all records necessary to properly
            account for Contractor’s performance and the payments made by the State Entity to Contractor under this Contract. These
            records shall be retained by Contractor for at least six (6) years after final payment, or until all audits initiated within the six
            (6) years have been completed, whichever is later. Contractor agrees to allow, at no additional cost, the State of Utah, federal
            auditors, and State Entity staff, access to all such records.
       5.   CERTIFY REGISTRATION AND USE OF EMPLOYMENT "STATUS VERIFICATION SYSTEM”: The Status Verification
            System, also referred to as “E-verify”, only applies to contracts issued through a Request for Proposal process and to sole
            sources that are included within a Request for Proposal.
            1.   Contractor certifies as to its own entity, under penalty of perjury, that Contractor has registered and is participating in the
                 Status Verification System to verify the work eligibility status of Contractor’s new employees that are employed in the
                 State of Utah in accordance with applicable immigration laws.
            2.   Contractor shall require that each of its Subcontractors certify by affidavit, as to their own entity, under penalty of perjury,
                 that each Subcontractor has registered and is participating in the Status Verification System to verify the work eligibility
                 status of Subcontractor’s new employees that are employed in the State of Utah in accordance with applicable
                 immigration laws.
            3.   Contractor’s failure to comply with this section will be considered a material breach of this Contract.
       6.   CONFLICT OF INTEREST: Contractor represents that none of its officers or employees are officers or employees of the State
            Entity or the State of Utah, unless disclosure has been made to the State Entity.

                                                                           1
Docusign Envelope ID: 3197E723-63CA-4313-B334-EAC81B770A83

       7.   INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR: Contractor and Subcontractors, in the performance of this Contract, shall act in an
            independent capacity and not as officers or employees or agents of the State Entity or the State of Utah.
       8.   INDEMNITY: Contractor shall be fully liable for the actions of its agents, employees, officers, partners, and Subcontractors,
            and shall fully indemnify, defend, and save harmless the State Entity and the State of Utah from all claims, losses, suits,
            actions, damages, and costs of every name and description arising out of Contractor’s performance of this Contract to the
            extent caused by any intentional wrongful act or negligence of Contractor, its agents, employees, officers, partners, or
            Subcontractors, without limitation; provided, however, that the Contractor shall not indemnify for that portion of any claim,
            loss, or damage arising hereunder due to the fault of the State Entity. The parties agree that if there are any limitations of the
            Contractor’s liability, including a limitation of liability clause for anyone for whom the Contractor is responsible, such limitations
            of liability will not apply to injuries to persons, including death, or to damages to property.
       9.   EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES: Contractor agrees to abide by federal and state employment laws, including: (i) Title VI and
            VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e), which prohibits discrimination against any employee or applicant for
            employment or any applicant or recipient of services, on the basis of race, religion, color, or national origin; (ii) Executive
            Order No. 11246, as amended, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex; (iii) 45 CFR 90, which prohibits
            discrimination on the basis of age; (iv) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, or the Americans with Disabilities Act of
            1990, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disabilities; and (v Utah's Executive Order 2019-1, dated February 5,
            2019, which prohibits unlawful harassment in the workplace. Contractor further agrees to abide by any other laws, regulations,
            or orders that prohibit the discrimination of any kind by any of Contractor’s employees.
       10. AMENDMENTS: This Contract may only be amended by the mutual written agreement of the parties, provided that the
           amendment is within the Scope of Work of this Contract and is within the scope/purpose of the original solicitation for which
           this Contract was derived. The amendment will be attached and made part of this Contract. Automatic renewals will not apply
           to this Contract, even if listed elsewhere in this Contract.
       11. DEBARMENT: Contractor certifies that it is not presently nor has ever been debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment
           by any governmental department or agency, whether international, national, state, or local. Contractor must notify the State
           Entity within thirty (30) days if debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from
           participation in any contract by any governmental entity during this Contract.
       12. TERMINATION: This Contract may be terminated, with cause by either party, in advance of the specified expiration date,
           upon written notice given by the other party. The party in violation will be given ten (10) days after written notification to correct
           and cease the violations, after which this Contract may be terminated for cause immediately and is subject to the remedies
           listed below. This Contract may also be terminated without cause (for convenience), in advance of the specified expiration
           date, by the State Entity, upon thirty (30) days written termination notice being given to the Contractor. The State Entity and
           the Contractor may terminate this Contract, in whole or in part, at any time, by mutual agreement in writing. On termination of
           this Contract, all accounts and payments will be processed according to the financial arrangements set forth herein for
           approved Services ordered prior to date of termination.
            Contractor shall be compensated for the Services properly performed under this Contract up to the effective date of the notice
            of termination. Contractor agrees that in the event of such termination for cause or without cause, Contractor’s sole remedy
            and monetary recovery from the State Entity or the State of Utah is limited to full payment for all Services properly performed
            as authorized under this Contract up to the date of termination as well as any reasonable monies owed as a result of
            Contractor having to terminate other contracts necessarily and appropriately entered into by Contractor pursuant to this
            Contract. In no event shall the State Entity be liable to the Contractor for compensation for any services neither requested by
            the State nor satisfactorily performed by the Contractor. In no event shall the State Entity’s exercise of its right to terminate
            this Contract for convenience relieve the Contractor of any liability to the State Entity for any damages or claims arising under
            this Contract.
       13. NONAPPROPRIATION OF FUNDS, REDUCTION OF FUNDS, OR CHANGES IN LAW: Upon thirty (30) days written notice
           delivered to the Contractor, this Contract may be terminated in whole or in part at the sole discretion of the State Entity, if the
           State Entity reasonably determines that: (i) a change in Federal or State legislation or applicable laws materially affects the
           ability of either party to perform under the terms of this Contract; or (ii) that a change in available funds affects the State
           Entity’s ability to pay under this Contract. A change of available funds as used in this paragraph includes, but is not limited
           to, a change in Federal or State funding, whether as a result of a legislative act or by order of the President or the Governor.
            If a written notice is delivered under this section, the State Entity will reimburse Contractor for the Services properly ordered
            until the effective date of said notice. The State Entity will not be liable for any performance, commitments, penalties, or
            liquidated damages that accrue after the effective date of said written notice.
       14. SUSPENSION OF WORK: Should circumstances arise which would cause the State Entity to suspend Contractor’s
           responsibilities under this Contract, but not terminate this Contract, this will be done by written notice. Contractor’s
           responsibilities may be reinstated upon advance formal written notice from the State Entity.
       15. SALES TAX EXEMPTION: The Services under this Contract will be paid for from the State Entity’s funds and used in the
           exercise of the State Entity’s essential functions as a State of Utah entity. Upon request, the State Entity will provide Contractor
           with its sales tax exemption number. It is Contractor’s responsibility to request the State Entity’s sales tax exemption number.
           It also is Contractor’s sole responsibility to ascertain whether any tax deduction or benefits apply to any aspect of this Contract.
       16. CONTRACTOR’S INSURANCE RESPONSIBILITY. The Contractor shall maintain the following insurance coverage:
                 a.   Workers’ compensation insurance during the term of this Contract for all its employees and any Subcontractor
                      employees related to this Contract. Workers’ compensation insurance shall cover full liability under the workers’
                      compensation laws of the jurisdiction in which the work is performed at the statutory limits required by said
                      jurisdiction.
                                                                           2
Docusign Envelope ID: 3197E723-63CA-4313-B334-EAC81B770A83

                b.   Commercial general liability [CGL] insurance from an insurance company authorized to do business in the State of
                     Utah. The limits of the CGL insurance policy will be no less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per person per
                     occurrence and three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) aggregate.
                c.   Commercial automobile liability [CAL] insurance from an insurance company authorized to do business in the
                     State of Utah. The CAL insurance policy must cover bodily injury and property damage liability and be applicable
                     to all vehicles used in your performance of Services under this Agreement whether owned, non-owned, leased, or
                     hired. The minimum liability limit must be $1 million per occurrence, combined single limit. The CAL insurance
                     policy is required if Contractor will use a vehicle in the performance of this Contract.
                d.   Other insurance policies required in the Solicitation.

            Certificate of Insurance, showing up-to-date coverage, shall be on file with the State Entity before the Contract may
            commence.

            The State reserves the right to require higher or lower insurance limits where warranted. Failure to provide proof of
            insurance as required will be deemed a material breach of this Contract. Contractor’s failure to maintain this insurance
            requirement for the term of this Contract will be grounds for immediate termination of this Contract.

       17. RESERVED.

       18. PUBLIC INFORMATION: Contractor agrees that this Contract, related purchase orders, related pricing documents, and
           invoices will be public documents and may be available for public and private distribution in accordance with the State of
           Utah’s Government Records Access and Management Act (GRAMA). Contractor gives the State Entity and the State of Utah
           express permission to make copies of this Contract, related sales orders, related pricing documents, and invoices in
           accordance with GRAMA. Except for sections identified in writing by Contractor and expressly approved by the State of Utah
           Division of Purchasing and General Services, Contractor also agrees that the Contractor’s Proposal to the Solicitation will be
           a public document, and copies may be given to the public as permitted under GRAMA. The State Entity and the State of Utah
           are not obligated to inform Contractor of any GRAMA requests for disclosure of this Contract, related purchase orders, related
           pricing documents, or invoices.
       19. DELIVERY: All deliveries under this Contract will be F.O.B. destination with all transportation and handling charges paid for
           by Contractor. Responsibility and liability for loss or damage will remain with Contractor until final inspection and acceptance
           when responsibility will pass to the State Entity, except as to latent defects or fraud. Contractor shall strictly adhere to the
           delivery and completion schedules specified in this Contract.
       20. ACCEPTANCE AND REJECTION: The State Entity shall have thirty (30) days after the performance of the Services to
           perform an inspection of the Services to determine whether the Services conform to the standards specified in the Solicitation
           and this Contract prior to acceptance of the Services by the State Entity.
            If Contractor delivers nonconforming Services, the State Entity may, at its option and at Contractor’s expense: (i) return the
            Services for a full refund; (ii) require Contractor to promptly correct or reperform the nonconforming Services subject to the
            terms of this Contract; or (iii) obtain replacement Services from another source, subject to Contractor being responsible for
            any cover costs.
       21. INVOICING: Contractor will submit invoices within thirty (30) days of Contractor’s performance of the Services to the State
           Entity. The contract number shall be listed on all invoices, freight tickets, and correspondence relating to this Contract. The
           prices paid by the State Entity will be those prices listed in this Contract, unless Contractor offers a prompt payment discount
           within its Proposal or on its invoice. The State Entity has the right to adjust or return any invoice reflecting incorrect pricing.
       22. PAYMENT: Payments are to be made within thirty (30) days after a correct invoice is received. All payments to Contractor
           will be remitted by mail, electronic funds transfer, or the State of Utah’s Purchasing Card (major credit card). If payment has
           not been made after sixty (60) days from the date a correct invoice is received by the State Entity, then interest may be added
           by Contractor as prescribed in the Utah Prompt Payment Act. The acceptance by Contractor of final payment, without a
           written protest filed with the State Entity within ten (10) business days of receipt of final payment, shall release the State Entity
           and the State of Utah from all claims and all liability to the Contractor. The State Entity’s payment for the Services shall not
           be deemed an acceptance of the Services and is without prejudice to any and all claims that the State Entity or the State of
           Utah may have against Contractor. The State of Utah and the State Entity will not allow the Contractor to charge end users
           electronic payment fees of any kind.
       23. TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE: The Services shall be completed by any applicable deadline stated in this Contract. For all
           Services, time is of the essence. Contractor shall be liable for all reasonable damages to the State Entity, the State of Utah,
           and anyone for whom the State of Utah may be liable as a result of Contractor’s failure to timely perform the Services required
           under this Contract.
       24. CHANGES IN SCOPE: Any changes in the scope of the Services to be performed under this Contract shall be in the form of
           a written amendment to this Contract, mutually agreed to and signed by both parties, specifying any such changes, fee
           adjustments, any adjustment in time of performance, or any other significant factors arising from the changes in the scope of
           Services.
       25. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION: The State Entity may conduct a performance evaluation of Contractor’s Services, including
           Contractor’s Subcontractors. Results of any evaluation may be made available to Contractor upon request.
       26. STANDARD OF CARE: The Services of Contractor and its Subcontractors shall be performed in accordance with the
           standard of care exercised by licensed members of their respective professions having substantial experience providing
                                                                          3
Docusign Envelope ID: 3197E723-63CA-4313-B334-EAC81B770A83

            similar services which similarities include the type, magnitude, and complexity of the Services that are the subject of this
            Contract. Contractor shall be liable to the State Entity and the State of Utah for claims, liabilities, additional burdens, penalties,
            damages, or third party claims (e.g., another Contractor’s claim against the State of Utah), to the extent caused by wrongful
            acts, errors, or omissions that do not meet this standard of care.
       27. REVIEWS: The State Entity reserves the right to perform plan checks, plan reviews, other reviews, and/or comment upon the
           Services of Contractor. Such reviews do not waive the requirement of Contractor to meet all of the terms and conditions of
           this Contract.
       28. ASSIGNMENT: Contractor may not assign, sell, transfer, subcontract or sublet rights, or delegate any right or obligation under
           this Contract, in whole or in part, without the prior written approval of the State Entity.
       29. REMEDIES: Any of the following events will constitute cause for the State Entity to declare Contractor in default of this
           Contract: (i) Contractor’s non-performance of its contractual requirements and obligations under this Contract; or (ii)
           Contractor’s material breach of any term or condition of this Contract. The State Entity may issue a written notice of default
           providing a ten (10) day period in which Contractor will have an opportunity to cure. Time allowed for cure will not diminish or
           eliminate Contractor's liability for damages. If the default remains after Contractor has been provided the opportunity to cure,
           the State Entity may do one or more of the following: (i) exercise any remedy provided by law or equity; (ii) terminate this
           Contract; (iii) impose liquidated damages, if liquidated damages are listed in this Contract; (iv) debar/suspend Contractor from
           receiving future contracts from the State Entity or the State of Utah; or (v) demand a full refund of any payment that the State
           Entity has made to Contractor under this Contract for Services that do not conform to this Contract.
       30. FORCE MAJEURE: Neither party to this Contract will be held responsible for delay or default caused by fire, riot, act of God,
           and/or war which is beyond that party's reasonable control. The State Entity may terminate this Contract after determining
           such delay will prevent successful performance of this Contract.
       31. CONFIDENTIALITY: If Confidential Information is disclosed to Contractor, Contractor shall: (i) advise its agents, officers,
           employees, partners, and Subcontractors of the obligations set forth in this Contract; (ii) keep all Confidential Information
           strictly confidential; and (iii) not disclose any Confidential Information received by it to any third parties. Contractor will promptly
           notify the State Entity of any potential or actual misuse or misappropriation of Confidential Information.
           Contractor shall be responsible for any breach of this duty of confidentiality, including any required remedies and/or
           notifications under applicable law. Contractor shall indemnify, hold harmless, and defend the State Entity and the State of
           Utah, including anyone for whom the State Entity or the State of Utah is liable, from claims related to a breach of this duty of
           confidentiality, including any notification requirements, by Contractor or anyone for whom the Contractor is liable.
           Upon termination or expiration of this Contract, Contractor will return all copies of Confidential Information to the State Entity
           or certify, in writing, that the Confidential Information has been destroyed. This duty of confidentiality shall be ongoing and
           survive the termination or expiration of this Contract.
       32. PUBLICITY: Contractor shall submit to the State Entity for written approval all advertising and publicity matters relating to this
           Contract. It is within the State Entity’s sole discretion whether to provide approval, which must be done in writing.
       33. CONTRACT INFORMATION: Contractor shall provide information regarding job vacancies to the State of Utah Department
           of Workforce Services, which may be posted on the Department of Workforce Services website. Posted information shall
           include the name and contact information for job vacancies. This information shall be provided to the State of Utah Department
           of Workforce Services for the duration of this Contract. This requirement does not preclude Contractor from advertising job
           openings in other forums throughout the State of Utah.
       34. INDEMNIFICATION RELATING TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY: Contractor will indemnify and hold the State Entity and
           the State of Utah harmless from and against any and all damages, expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees), claims,
           judgments, liabilities, and costs in any action or claim brought against the State Entity or the State of Utah for infringement of
           a third party’s copyright, trademark, trade secret, or other proprietary right. The parties agree that if there are any limitations
           of Contractor’s liability, such limitations of liability will not apply to this section.
       35. OWNERSHIP IN CUSTOM DELIVERABLES: In the event that Contractor provides Custom Deliverables to the State Entity,
           pursuant to this Contract, Contractor grants the ownership in Custom Deliverables, which have been developed and delivered
           by Contractor exclusively for the State Entity and are specifically within the framework of fulfilling Contractor’s contractual
           obligations under this contract. Custom Deliverables shall be deemed work made for hire, such that all intellectual property
           rights, title and interest in the Custom Deliverables shall pass to the State Entity, to the extent that the Custom Deliverables
           are not recognized as work made for hire, Contractor hereby assigns to the State Entity any and all copyrights in and to the
           Custom Deliverables, subject to the following:
            1.   Contractor has received payment for the Custom Deliverables,
            2. Each party will retain all rights to patents, utility models, mask works, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and any
            other form of protection afforded by law to inventions, models, designs, technical information, and applications (“Intellectual
            Property Rights”) that it owned or controlled prior to the effective date of this contract or that it develops or acquires from
            activities independent of the services performed under this contract (“Background IP”), and
            3. Contractor will retain all right, title, and interest in and to all Intellectual Property Rights in or related to the services, or
            tangible components thereof, including but not limited to (a) all know-how, intellectual property, methodologies, processes,
            technologies, algorithms, software, or development tools used in performing the Services (collectively, the “Utilities”), and (b)
            such ideas, concepts, know-how, processes and reusable reports, designs, charts, plans, specifications, documentation,
            forms, templates, or output which are supplied or otherwise used by or on behalf of Contractor in the course of performing
            the Services or creating the Custom Deliverables, other than portions that specifically incorporate proprietary or Confidential


                                                                            4
Docusign Envelope ID: 3197E723-63CA-4313-B334-EAC81B770A83

            Information or Custom Deliverables of the State Entity (collectively, the “Residual IP”), even if embedded in the Custom
            Deliverables.
            4. Custom Deliverables, not including Contractor’s Intellectual Property Rights, Background IP, and Residual IP, may not
            be marketed or distributed without written approval by the State Entity.
            Contractor agrees to grant to the State Entity a perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free license to use Contractor’s Background IP,
            Utilities, and Residual IP, as defined above, solely for the State Entity and the State of Utah to use the Custom Deliverables.
            The State Entity reserves a royalty-free, nonexclusive, and irrevocable license to reproduce, publish, or otherwise use and to
            authorize others to use, for the State Entity’s and the State of Utah’s internal purposes, such Custom Deliverables. For the
            Goods delivered that consist of Contractor’s scripts and code and are not considered Custom Deliverables or Work Product,
            for any reason whatsoever, Contractor grants the State Entity a non-exclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable, perpetual right
            to use, copy, and create derivative works from such, without the right to sublicense, for the State Entity’s and the State of
            Utah’s internal business operation under this Contract. The State Entity and the State of Utah may not participate in the
            transfer or sale of, create derivative works from, or in any way exploit Contractor’s Intellectual Property Rights, in whole or in
            part.
       36. OWNERSHIP IN INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY: The State Entity and Contractor agree that each has no right, title, interest,
           proprietary or otherwise in the intellectual property owned or licensed by the other, unless otherwise agreed upon by the
           parties in writing. All deliverables, documents, records, programs, data, articles, memoranda, and other materials not
           developed or licensed by Contractor prior to the execution of this Contract, but specifically created or manufactured under
           this Contract shall be considered work made for hire, and Contractor shall transfer any ownership claim to the State Entity.
       37. WAIVER: A waiver of any right, power, or privilege shall not be construed as a waiver of any subsequent right, power, or
           privilege.
       38. ATTORNEY’S FEES: In the event of any judicial action to enforce rights under this Contract, the prevailing party shall be
           entitled its costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney’s fees incurred in connection with such action.
       39. PROCUREMENT ETHICS: Contractor understands that a person who is interested in any way in the sale of any supplies,
           services, construction, or insurance to the State of Utah is violating the law if the person gives or offers to give any
           compensation, gratuity, contribution, loan, reward, or any promise thereof to any person acting as a procurement officer on
           behalf of the State of Utah, or to any person in any official capacity participates in the procurement of such supplies, services,
           construction, or insurance, whether it is given for their own use or for the use or benefit of any other person or organization.
       40. DISPUTE RESOLUTION: Prior to either party filing a judicial proceeding, the parties agree to participate in the mediation of
           any dispute. The State Entity, after consultation with the Contractor, may appoint an expert or panel of experts to assist in the
           resolution of a dispute. If the State Entity appoints such an expert or panel, State Entity and Contractor agree to cooperate in
           good faith in providing information and documents to the expert or panel in an effort to resolve the dispute.
       41. ORDER OF PRECEDENCE: In the event of any conflict in the terms and conditions in this Contract, the order of precedence
           shall be: (i) this Attachment A; (ii) Contract Signature Page(s); (iii) the State of Utah’s additional terms and conditions, if any;
           (iv) any other attachment listed on the Contract Signature Page(s); and (v) Contractor’s terms and conditions that are attached
           to this Contract, if any. Any provision attempting to limit the liability of Contractor or limit the rights of the State Entity or the
           State of Utah must be in writing and attached to this Contract or it is rendered null and void.
       42. SURVIVAL OF TERMS: Termination or expiration of this Contract shall not extinguish or prejudice the State Entity’s right to
           enforce this Contract with respect to any default or defect in the Services that has not been cured.
       43. SEVERABILITY: The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision, term, or condition of this Contract shall not affect the
           validity or enforceability of any other provision, term, or condition of this Contract, which shall remain in full force and effect.
       44. ENTIRE AGREEMENT: This Contract constitutes the entire agreement between the parties and supersedes any and all
           other prior and contemporaneous agreements and understandings between the parties, whether oral or written.
       45. ANTI-BOYCOTT ACTIONS: In accordance with Utah Code 63G-27 et seq., Contractor certifies that it is not currently engaged
           in any “economic boycott” nor a “boycott of the State of Israel” as those terms are defined in Section 102. Contractor further
           certifies that it has read and understands 63G-27 et. seq., that it will not engage in any such boycott action during the term of
           this Contract, and that if it does, it shall promptly notify the State in writing.
                                                                                                                    (Revision Date: 7/20/2023)




                                                                           5
Docusign Envelope ID: 3197E723-63CA-4313-B334-EAC81B770A83




                                                  ATTACHMENT B SCOPE OF WORK



             Section 1 Introduction

             Utah’s Commercial Property Assessed Clean Energy (C-PACE) program is a private financing tool for
             qualifying commercial and industrial building improvements. Property owners can receive up to 100
             percent financing with $0 down for a fixed term of up to 30 years (or the expected life of the improvement).
             In order to receive financing, the property owner must consent to a voluntary energy assessment and lien
             on their property. The lien is assigned to a third-party lender (referred to as “capital provider” in this RFP) 1
             to secure private financing. The capital provider then directly lends to the property owner. Financing is
             repaid directly to the capital provider. The C-PACE assessment is treated the same as a property tax
             assessment.

             The Utah C-PACE enabling legislation was passed in 2013 and amended in 2024. The program is described
             in Title 11, Chapter 42a (the C-PACE Act) of the Utah Code and can be reviewed at:
             https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title11/Chapter42A/11-42a.html

             Section 1.1 Purpose

             Section 11-42a-106 of the Utah code established a C-PACE District with Utah’s Office of Energy
             Development (OED) responsible for administration and operations. OED can delegate its administrative
             powers to a third party to support its role as C-PACE District administrator.

             Section 1.2 Goals

             Utah’s economy can benefit from C-PACE financing through reduced operational costs, new investment
             and job opportunities, improved property values, and environmental enhancement through lower emissions.
             To realize these values, OED is interested in developing a robust, self-sustaining C-PACE District that
             supports market-based and competitive approaches to energy financing, resulting in several C-PACE
             projects completed annually.

             Section 2 Scope of Work

             The Contractor will provide administrative services to the C-PACE District that are tailored to the Utah
             C-PACE statute and achieve the goals described above. The Contractor will provide the minimum,
             following services:

             (1) Program administration services,

             (2) Financial services, and

             (3) Education and outreach for the C-PACE District.




             1
                 See Section 11-42a-102 for definition.

                                                                    1
Docusign Envelope ID: 3197E723-63CA-4313-B334-EAC81B770A83




             The contract is for five years. The contractor’s costs incurred by executing the contract shall be
             recouped solely through a fee charged against each project, which is collected upon financial closing. All
             activities will be in accordance with the C-PACE statute and associated statutes.

             The specific activities for each service are described below.

             Task 1: Program administration services

             The contractor will provide administrative services to OED. Related activities will be conducted in a
             transparent and timely manner, with at least monthly consultation with OED. Program administration
             services should include the following:

                 ●   Registering with the Utah Department of Commerce
                 ●   Maintaining a minimum of one full-time employee physically located in Utah to develop C-PACE
                     projects
                 ●   Communicating at least monthly with OED and C-PACE stakeholders
                 ●   Advising OED to help develop administrative rules governing the C-PACE District
                 ●   Managing all aspects of C-PACE project pre-applications and applications, including verification
                     of project eligibility against statute and monitoring the C-PACE website submissions
                 ●   Securing opt-in agreements between OED and the governing body, which includes, but is not
                     limited to, educating governing bodies on C-PACE and the C-PACE District; educating governing
                     bodies on the opt-in agreement; coordinating and participating in meetings between OED and the
                     governing body; coordinating communication between OED and the governing body; and tracking
                     progress of opt-in agreements within the governing body process through execution
                 ●   Helping OED draft an agreement between OED and the relevant public electrical utility to establish
                     the scope of the improvement to be financed; coordinating and participating in meetings and
                     communications between OED and the electrical utility; and tracking the progress of the
                     agreements through execution
                 ●   Educating property owners and mortgage holders about C-PACE mortgage holder consent;
                     disseminating the mortgage holder consent agreement to C-PACE stakeholders; meeting with
                     mortgage holders; and tracking mortgage holder consent agreements through to execution
                 ●   Managing all aspects of the capital provider lists
                 ●   Developing and maintaining an electronic document management system and archival process for
                     C-PACE project documents, which is fully owned by the State, in compliance with Utah’s
                     Department of Technology Services security requirements, and can be accessed by OED
                 ●   Providing a written report on a monthly basis documenting activities, including the number of
                     project applications received, assessments levied, projects in the pipeline, and any other relevant
                     activities.
                 ●   Advising on municipality activities, such as how to record energy assessments and liens
                 ●   Maintaining and giving input to OED on any updates required for the C-PACE District guides,
                     templates, agreements, and forms


             Task 2: Financial services

             The Contractor will provide financial services for the C-PACE District. All activities will be conducted in
             a transparent manner, which will include monthly reporting and providing OED with access to all
             program materials. These activities should clearly demonstrate how potential conflicts of interest
             are mitigated; generates competition within the Utah market to keep project financing competitive;
             and supports OED’s goal of an open market.

                                                                  2
Docusign Envelope ID: 3197E723-63CA-4313-B334-EAC81B770A83




             Per Section 11-42a-106, the contractor will be subject to an audit by the state auditor regarding the
             delegation of OED’s administration.

             The Contractor’s costs incurred by executing the contract shall be recouped solely by a fee charged against
             each project that is financed.

             Financial services will include the following:

                 ●   Working with capital providers to collect applicable fees
                 ●   Advising OED and C-PACE stakeholders on national C-PACE best practices and Utah statute
                     throughout the project lifecycle and financing decision points
                 ●   Advising capital providers on their responsibilities regarding calculating, recording, collecting and
                     distributing relevant fees and remittances.


             Task 3: Education and outreach

             The Contractor shall provide education and outreach support to the C-PACE District to realize C-PACE
             projects. Year one will focus on development of educational materials and education and outreach to C-
             PACE stakeholders. All activities shall be based on C-PACE best practices and be in accordance with Utah
             statute. Educational materials must be developed in coordination with and approved by OED prior to
             distribution. Education and outreach activities will include the following:

                 ●   Planning and executing education and outreach events for C-PACE stakeholders (i.e., the third-
                     party administrator, building owners, governing bodies, mortgage holders, and capital providers)
                     to realize new C-PACE projects and ensure that C-PACE stakeholders have relevant program
                     information
                 ●   Expanding the presence of the C-PACE District in Utah and nationally
                 ●   Creating, updating, and distributing tailored educational materials for each type of C-PACE
                     stakeholder
                 ●   Managing and regularly updating the C-PACE website (utahcpace.com)
                 ●   Maintaining downloadable C-PACE District guides, templates, forms, and agreements on the C-
                     PACE website
                 ●   Responding to C-PACE inquiries
                 ●   Maintaining an educational training calendar for C-PACE stakeholders
                 ●   Developing case studies and success stories of completed C-PACE projects




                                                                  3
                       ASSIGNMENT OF ENERGY ASSESSMENT AND LIEN


       This Assignment of Energy Assessment and Lien is made and entered into as of _____ day
of _________, 20__ by and between ______________________, a political subdivision of the
State of Utah (“City” or “County”) and_______________, a ____________ limited liability
company duly authorized to conduct business in Utah, together with any successors or assigns
(“Third-Party Lender”), pursuant to the Commercial Property Assessed Clean Energy Act (the
“Act”), Utah Code Title 11, Chapter 42a.

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants set forth herein
the City/County hereby quit-claims, grants, bargains, sells, conveys, assigns, and transfers to
Third-Party Lender, without warranty, covenants or recourse, all of its right, title and interest in
and to the Energy Assessment and Lien executed of even date herewith and filed in the Land
Records of ___________ County (the “Lien”). The Assessment (as such term is defined in the
Lien) constitutes a lien against the real property owned by ____________________ (the “Property
Owner”) and more particularly described in Schedule I attached hereto and incorporated herein by
reference (the “Property”). The Property is commonly referred to as _____________________,
_______________City, Utah 84___.

       All assessment payments due under the Lien will be billed, collected and received by Third-
Party Lender, or an assignee thereof, in accordance with that certain PACE Supplemental
Agreement by and between Property Owner and Third-Party Lender dated as of the date hereof
(“Financing Agreement”). Third-Party Lender will be responsible for all servicing duties.

        The Financing Agreement must clearly state the amount financed, which may not exceed
the sum of: 1) the contract price or estimated contract price; 2) overhead costs not to exceed 15%
of the sum of the contract price or estimated contract price; 3) an amount for contingencies of not
more than 10% of the contract price or estimated contract price, if the Assessment is levied before
the completion of construction of the improvements in the energy assessment area; 4) capitalized
interest; and, 5) an amount sufficient to fund a reserve fund.

        In the event of an Event of Default (as defined in the Financing Agreement) or nonpayment
by Property Owner of payment of the installments due under the Financing Agreement, the Third-
Party Lender possesses the rights and powers at law or in equity to enforce the Lien only in
accordance with Section 11-42a- 303(2) of the Act. Third-Party Lender shall appoint a Trustee and
the Lien shall be enforced by the Third-Party Lender in accordance with Section 11-42a-
303(1)(a)(ii)(B) or (C). In any action to collect a delinquent installment of the Assessment, the
Third-Party Lender shall be entitled to any additional sums including contractual penalties and
interest, due to it under the Financing Agreement and in accordance with the Act.

       In the event that any such installment shall remain unpaid for 7 days, the Third-Party
Lender may:

         (i)       declare the delinquent amount to be immediately due and subject to collection as
                   provided in the Act;


Assignment of Energy Assessment Lien
HB: 4821-4941-2014.6
         (ii)      if the financed improvements are not completed by the completion deadline to
                   which the Property Owner agreed in financing documents, then within 60 days after
                   the completion deadline, accelerate payment of the total unpaid balance of the
                   Assessment and declare the whole of the unpaid principal and the interest then due
                   to be immediately due and payable; and
         (iii)     charge and collect all costs of collection, including attorney fees.

        Except as provided in subsection (ii), the Third-Party Lender may not accelerate payment
of the total unpaid balance of the Assessment.

       At such time as the payments of the Assessment have been satisfied and paid in full, the
Third-Party Lender shall file a release in the Land Records of _______________ County.

        Third-Party Lender, or any assignee thereof, shall have the right to assign the Lien by
notifying the Property Owner in writing of any such assignment or transfer and the address to
which payment of future installments should be mailed at least 30 days before the next installment
is due according to the payment schedule included in the Financing Documents; and

        The assignee or transferee of the right to receive installments shall execute an explicit
written assumption of all of Third-Party Lender’s obligations under the Lien and this Assignment
of Energy Assessment and Lien. The transferee shall provide written notice of the assumption
agreement to the City/County.

        This Assignment of Energy Assessment and Lien is made, given, and executed pursuant to
the authority granted to the City/County by the Act.

       The City/County is not liable to pay the Assessment, and the financing in connection with
this Assignment of Energy Assessment and Lien is not an obligation of the City/County or a
charge against the City’s/County’s general credit or taxing power.

       At the election of the Governing Body, Third-Party Lender shall be subject to an audit
regarding the assigned Lien.

      Third-Party Lender shall submit monthly reports to the City/County regarding the
payments received from the Property Owner commencing on ______________, 20__ and on the
same day of each successive month thereafter until the assessment is paid in full.

         Third-Party Lender shall be subject to an audit by the State Auditor regarding the assigned
Lien.

        Third-Party Lender hereby releases the City/County from possible claims resulting from
any act or omission of the City/County relating to this Assignment of Energy Assessment and Lien
or the financing to which it relates.

      Third-Party Lender shall indemnify and hold harmless the City/County from and against
any and all losses, liabilities, penalties, fines, damages, and claims, and all related costs and

Assignment of Energy Assessment Lien
HB: 4821-4941-2014.6
expenses (including attorneys’ fees and disbursements and costs of investigation, litigation,
settlement, judgments, interest and penalties) arising from or in connection with any of the
following:

        (a) Any dispute, claim, demand, action, citation, or legal proceeding arising out of or
related to the financing of the energy improvement:

        (b) Any dispute, claim, demand, action, citation, or legal proceeding arising out of or
related to the enforcement of the Energy Assessment and Lien;

       (c) Any dispute, claim, demand, action, citation, or legal proceeding resulting from any act
or omission of the Third-Party Lender or any act or omission of the City/County.

    By executing this Assignment of Energy Assessment and Lien, Third-Party Lender certifies
that it has received documentation from Property Owner evidencing: (i) Property Owner is current
on payments on all loans secured by a mortgage or deed of trust lien on the Property, (ii) Property
Owner is not insolvent or subject to bankruptcy proceedings, and (iii) Property Owner's title to the
Property is not in dispute.

         Third-Party Lender represents and warrants that it shall comply with all provisions of the
Act.

       This Assignment of Energy Assessment and Lien by the City/County is absolute and
irrevocable, and the City/County shall retain no interest, reversionary or otherwise, in the Lien.

REPRESENTATION REGARDING ETHICAL STANDARDS FOR CITY/COUNTY
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES AND FORMER CITY/COUNTY OFFICERS AND
EMPLOYEES:

       Third-Party Lender represents that it has not: (1) provided an illegal gift or payoff to a
City/County officer or employee or former City/County officer or employee, or his or her relative
or business entity; (2) retained any person to solicit or secure this contract upon an agreement or
understanding for a commission, percentage, or brokerage or contingent fee, other than bona fide
employees or bona fide commercial selling agencies for the purpose of securing business; (3)
knowingly breached any of the ethical standards set forth in the City’s/County’s conflict of interest
ordinance, Chapter _____, __________City/County Code; or (4) knowingly influenced, and
hereby promises that it will not knowingly influence, a City/County officer or employee or former
City/County officer or employee to breach any of the ethical standards set forth in the
City’s/County’s conflict of interest ordinance, Chapter ____, _____________ City/County Code.


Executed effective as of _______________, 20________

                                     [Signature pages follow]


Assignment of Energy Assessment Lien
HB: 4821-4941-2014.6
Third-Party Lender:

______________________

By: ______________________
Name: __________________________
Title: _______________________
Address: _______________________________



STATE OF

                                  ss:

COUNTY OF



          On the ____day of _________, 20___ personally appeared before me
____________________________________________________________(insert signer name),
who being duly sworn upon their oath did say that he/she (delete one) is the _____________
_____________ _____________ of
______________________________________________________________________________
_______________, and that the attached instrument was signed on behalf of said Company, and
that the company executed the same.




                               _______________________________________________

                                                        Notary Public




Assignment of Energy Assessment Lien
HB: 4821-4941-2014.6
_______________________CITY/COUNTY ENTITY:

By: ________________________________________

Name: _________________________________

Title: _____________________

Address: _______________________, _____________ City, Utah 84___



STATE OF UTAH

                                  ss:

COUNTY OF _______________________



          On the ____day of _________, 2019 personally appeared before me
_______________________________________________________(insert signer name), who
being duly sworn upon their oath did say that he/she (delete one) is the _____________ of Salt
Lake City Corporation, and that the attached instrument was signed on behalf of said City and
that the City executed same.



                                                        _______________________________

                                                          Notary Public




Assignment of Energy Assessment Lien
HB: 4821-4941-2014.6
                                       SCHEDULE I

                              DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY



PIN: _________________




Assignment of Energy Assessment Lien
HB: 4821-4941-2014.6
THIS PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT is between ______________, a Utah City,
and SUSTAINABLE REAL ESTATE SOLUTIONS, INC., a Delaware corporation, whose
address is 461 Monroe Turnpike #60, Monroe, CT 06468 (“SRS”, and collectively with the City,
the “Parties”), and is dated as of the date that the ___________ City Recorder attests the applicable
City signature (“Effective Date”).
                                            RECITALS
       A.      Utah Code Title 11, chapter 42a (the “C-PACE Act”) authorizes the City to create
an energy assessment area (“C-PACE Area”) and levy an assessment on a private property to cover
the costs of an energy efficiency upgrade, a renewable energy system, or an electric vehicle
charging infrastructure.

     B.     The City may delegate its administrative powers to a third party to administer its
C-PACE program in accordance with the C-PACE Act and other relevant codes;

       C.     The City desires that SRS act as a consultant to assist the City in administering any
energy assessment areas that the City may create during the term of the Agreement.

         D.      SRS, which is under contract with the State of Utah, Office of Energy
Development, to provide C-PACE program administration services, is qualified and desires to
assist the City in the City’s administration of any energy assessment areas that the City may create
during the term of the Agreement.


                                          AGREEMENT
       FOR GOOD AND VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, the Parties agree as follows:

       1.      Scope of Services: City agrees to engage SRS and SRS agrees to provide its
professional and technical services as shown on the Scope of Services attached hereto as Exhibit
A.

        2.      Compensation and Method of Payment: SRS’ sole compensation for the Scope of
Services it provides under the terms of this Agreement shall be a program administration fee
charged against each project that is financed. The fee is set at 3.0 percent of the total amount of C-
PACE financing, not to exceed $90,000 per project. Upon financial closing, the capital provider
will send the total fee (3.0 percent of the total amount of C-PACE financing, not to exceed $90,000)
to SRS. SRS acknowledges and agrees that SRS would not be able to participate in C-PACE
financing without the City’s cooperation, and therefore the City has no financial obligation to SRS
for the services it provides under the terms of this Agreement, whether any or all project(s) do or
do not close.

         3.      Term: This Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and terminate
three/five years thereafter (“Term”), unless terminated earlier by either party. SRS shall perform
its services in a timely manner, in accordance with the best professional standards of practice, and
in accordance with any schedule in the Scope of Services.


                                                                                                    1
        4.     Amendments: Any change in this Agreement shall be mutually agreed upon by
the City and the SRS and shall be set forth in a written amendment to this Agreement.

        5.      Subconsultant Agreements: All of the services required hereunder will be
performed by SRS or under its supervision and all personnel engaged in providing the services
shall be fully qualified and shall be authorized or permitted under state and local law to perform
such services.

        6.      City’s Obligations: The City shall provide, at no expense to SRS, such books,
maps, records, plans, reports, statistics or other data or information, that are existing, as may be
reasonably required by SRS to perform the tasks or services. The City makes no representation
that such information will be provided or that review of any information submitted by SRS to the
City will be made within any given timeframe. City shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever
for any loss or damage of any kind incurred by SRS related to the City’s review of any information
submitted to or requested from the City.

       7.       Assignment: SRS shall not assign any obligation under this Agreement without
City’s written consent, which may be withheld in City’s sole discretion.

      8.     Discrimination: SRS shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant for
employment because of race, color, religion, sex, disability, or national origin.

         9.     Ownership of Materials: All materials and other documentation prepared for public
consumption pursuant to this Agreement (whether completed or uncompleted, or draft or final)
shall become the property of the City upon expiration of the Term. The City shall have unrestricted
authority to publish, disclose, distribute, and otherwise use, in whole or in part, any reports, data
or other materials prepared under this Agreement. Credits for work prepared by SRS shall be
included with all documents issued by the City. SRS retains the right to duplicate and retain copies
of all reports and other documents it prepared in providing services pursuant to this Agreement.

       10.     Independent Contractor Relationship: The legal relationship of the SRS to the City
with respect to the services required under this Agreement shall be that of an independent
contractor and not that of an agent or employee.

       11.     Notices: All notices under this Agreement shall be sent to the following address:
               City: ___________ City
                      _________________________
                      _________________________
                      _________________________
                      Attention:

               SRS: Sustainable Real Estate Solutions, Inc.
                    179 Main Street, #61
                    Monroe, CT 06468
                    Attention: Brian McCarter, CEO




                                           Page 2 of 8
        12.     Indemnification: SRS agrees to indemnify, save harmless and defend the City, its
officers and employees, from and against all losses, claims, counterclaims, demands, actions,
damages, costs, charges and causes of action of every kind or character, including attorney’s
fees, costs, and expenses, arising out of SRS’s intentionally wrongful, reckless, or negligent
performance hereunder. SRS’s duty to defend City shall exist regardless of whether City or SRS
may ultimately be found to be liable for anyone’s negligence or other conduct. If the City’s
tender of defense, based upon this indemnity provision, is rejected by SRS, and SRS is later
found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have been required to indemnify the City, then in
addition to any other remedies the City may have, SRS shall pay the City’s reasonable costs,
expenses and attorney’s fees incurred in proving such indemnification, defending itself or
enforcing this provision. Nothing herein shall be construed to require SRS to indemnify the City
against the City’s own negligence.

        13.    Termination: City may terminate this Agreement at any time, for any reason, by
providing SRS at least thirty days (30) business days written notice of its intent to terminate the
Agreement. In such event, all finished or unfinished documents, data, studies, and reports prepared
by SRS or SRS’s subconsultants under this Agreement shall, at the option of the City, be delivered
to City within three (3) days after the effective date of termination. Notwithstanding the above,
SRS shall not be relieved of liability to the City for damages sustained by the City by virtue of any
breach of this Agreement by SRS, and the City may withhold any payments, if any, otherwise due
to the SRS until such time as the exact amount of damages due to the City from SRS is determined.

        14.     Compliance with laws and regulations: SRS shall obey all laws, ordinances,
regulations and rules of the federal, state, county and municipal governments that may be
applicable to its operations. Said laws include, but are not limited to, equal employment
opportunity laws (including without limitation, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Civil Rights Act
of 1991, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Age Discrimination in Employment
Act of 1967), the Fair Labor Standards Act, Occupational Safety & Health Administration (OSHA)
laws, the Utah Immigration Accountability and Enforcement Act, and all applicable building
codes. Any violation of applicable law shall constitute a breach of this Agreement and SRS shall
hold the City harmless from any and all liability arising out of, or in connection with, said
violations including any attorneys’ fees and costs incurred by the City as a result of such violation.

        15.      Standard of Care: All services provided by SRS and SRS’s subconsultants
hereunder shall be performed in accordance with the professional standards of licensed
professionals of their respective disciplines experienced, competent and specializing in the
services being provided to the project (whether licensed and/or practicing in the jurisdiction where
the project is located or elsewhere).

      16.     Insurance: SRS, at its own cost, shall secure and maintain during the term of this
Agreement, including all renewal terms, the following minimum insurance coverage:

               a.      Worker’s compensation and employer’s liability insurance sufficient to
cover all of SRS’s employees under Utah law. In the event SRS subcontracts any work under this
Agreement, SRS shall require its subcontractor(s) similarly to provide worker’s compensation
insurance for all of the latter’s employees, unless a waiver of coverage is allowed and acquired




                                           Page 3 of 8
pursuant to Utah law.

               b.     Commercial general liability (“CGL”) insurance with a policy endorsement
naming City as an additional insured on a primary and non-contributory basis in comparison to all
other insurance including the City’s own policy or policies of insurance, in the minimum amount
of $1,000,000 per occurrence with a $2,000,000 general aggregate and $2,000,000 products-
completed operations aggregate. The policy shall include contractual liability insurance for the
indemnity provided under this Agreement. These limits can be covered either under a CGL
insurance policy alone, or a combination of a CGL insurance policy and an umbrella insurance
policy and/or a CGL insurance policy and an excess insurance policy. The policy shall protect the
City, SRS, and any subcontractor from claims for damages for bodily injury, including accidental
death, and property damage that may arise from SRS’s operations under this Agreement, whether
performed by SRS itself, any subcontractor, or anyone directly or indirectly employed by either of
them. Such insurance shall provide coverage for premises operations, acts of independent
contractors, and products-completed operations.

             c.      Professional liability insurance in the minimum amount of $1,000,000 per
claim made with a $1,000,000 annual aggregate limit.

                d.      Any insurance coverage required herein that is written on a “claims made”
form rather than on an “occurrence” form shall (i) provide full prior acts coverage or have a
retroactive date effective before the date of this Agreement, and (ii) be maintained for a period of
three (3) years following the end of the term of this Agreement or contain a comparable “extended
discovery” clause for “tail coverage.”

               e.      All policies of insurance provided shall be issued by insurance companies
licensed to do business in the State of Utah and either (i) currently rated A- or better by A.M. Best
Company or (ii) listed in the United States Treasury Department’s current Listing of Approved
Sureties (Department Circular 570), as amended.

               f.     SRS shall, upon the City’s request, furnish certificates of insurance,
acceptable to the City, verifying the foregoing matters concurrent with the execution hereof, at
each renewal, and thereafter as required.

       17.    Jurisdiction: This Agreement and all transactions contemplated hereunder shall be
governed by, construed under, and enforced in accordance with the internal laws of the State of
Utah without giving effect to any choice of law or conflict of law rules or provisions.

        18.   Entire Agreement: This Agreement contains all of the agreements, representations
and understandings of the Parties hereto relating to the subject matter of this Agreement and
supersedes any previous understandings, commitments, proposals, or agreements whether oral or
written.

        19.     Representation Regarding Ethical Standards: SRS represents that it has not (1)
provided an illegal gift or payoff to a City officer or employee or former City officer or employee,
or his or her relative or business entity; (2) retained any person to solicit or secure this contract




                                           Page 4 of 8
upon an agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, or brokerage or contingent fee,
other than bona fide employees or bona fide commercial selling agencies for the purpose of
securing business; (3) knowingly breached any of the ethical standards set forth in City’s conflict
of interest ordinance; or (4) knowingly influenced, and hereby promises that it will not knowingly
influence, a City officer or employee or former City officer or employee to breach any of the
ethical standards set forth in City’s conflict of interest ordinance.

       20.    Counterparts: This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which will
be deemed an original and all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument.

        21.    Electronic Signatures: Each party agrees that the signatures of the parties included
in this Agreement, whether affixed on an original document manually and later electronically
transmitted or whether affixed by an electronic signature through an electronic signature system,
such as DocuSign, are intended to authenticate this writing and to create a legal and enforceable
agreement between the parties hereto.


                             (Signatures Begin on Following Page)




                                          Page 5 of 8
        IN WITNESS WHEREFORE, the parties are signing this Agreement as of the Effective
Date.

                                            CITY:

                                            ____________CITY, a Utah municipality

                                            By
                                            Name:
                                            Title:


 ATTEST & COUNTERSIGN:                      APPROVED AS TO FORM:
 ___________ Recorder’s Office              _____________ Attorney’s Office

 ____________________________               ____________________________
 City Recorder                              City Attorney
                                            Date________________________



                                            SRS:

                                            SUSTAINABLE REAL ESTATE SOLUTIONS,
                                            INC., a Delaware Corporation

                                            By: __________________________________

                                            Name: Brian McCarter
                                            Title: CEO




                                      Page 6 of 8
                                   EXHIBIT A
                                      TO
                         CONSULTING SERVICES AGREMENT

                                       (Scope of Services)

The SRS shall perform the following services as requested by City:

Section 1 – Services Provided by SRS.

       1.1    SRS will provide the following services for the City:

              a)      Program Administration Services,
              b)      Financial Services, and
              c)      Education and Outreach Services.

       1.2     SRS Program Administration Services include the following:

              a)      Managing all aspects of C-PACE project pre-applications and
                      applications, including verification of project eligibility against statute.
              b)      Coordinating communication between the City and program participants,
                      and tracking progress of projects through origination, development, and
                      finance agreement execution.
              c)      Educating property owners and mortgage holders about C-PACE
                      mortgage holder consent; disseminating the mortgage holder consent
                      agreement to C-PACE stakeholders; meeting with mortgage holders; and
                      tracking mortgage holder consent agreements through to execution.
              d)      Managing all aspects of the C-PACE contractor and capital provider
                      communications.
              e)      Coordinating with City to facilitate City activities such as recording
                      energy assessment liens and assigning such liens to project capital
                      providers.
              f)      Maintaining C-PACE Area template agreements and forms.

       1.3    SRS Financial Services include the following:

              a)      All financial services for the C-PACE Area.
              b)      Conducting financial services in a transparent manner, which include
                      periodic reporting and providing the City with access to all program
                      materials.
              c)      Mitigating potential conflicts of interest and ensuring competition within
                      the City’s C-PACE program to keep project financing competitive in an
                      open market structure.
              d)      Working with capital providers to collect applicable program
                      administration fees.
              e)      Advising the City and C-PACE stakeholders on national C-PACE best




                                         Page 7 of 8
             practices and Utah statute throughout the project lifecycle and financing
             decision points.

1.4   SRS Education and Outreach Services include the following:

      a)     Periodic outreach events for C-PACE stakeholders (i.e., contractors,
             building owners and capital providers) to realize new C-PACE projects
             and ensure that C-PACE stakeholders have relevant program information.
      b)     Maintaining C-PACE Area templates, forms, and agreements.
      c)     Responding to inquiries about C-PACE Areas.
      d)     Developing case studies and success stories of completed C-PACE
             projects.
      e)     All Education and Outreach Services shall be based on C-PACE best
             practices and be in accordance with Utah statute.




                                Page 8 of 8
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:

_______________________
_______________________
_______________________
_______________________



                                 Energy Assessment and Lien

        In consideration for the financing advanced or to be advanced to ____________________,
a ___________ limited liability company (“Property Owner”) by ___________________, a
_____________ limited liability company, together with its successors and assigns (“Third-Party
Lender”) for the qualified energy efficiency upgrade as defined by the Commercial Property
Assessed Clean Energy Act (“Act”) Utah Code Title 11, Chapter 42a, Property Owner hereby
requests and agrees to the imposition by _____________________ (the “City/County”) by its
___________________(executive officer, Administrator, Mayor) of an assessment in the amount
of __________________ (the "Assessment"), in addition to all interest, fees, penalties, costs, and
other sums due under and authorized by the Act. The undersigned _____________________
(executive officer, Administrator, Mayor) of the City/County, with an office at
___________________________________, acting pursuant to authority granted under Sections
11-42a-203 and 11-42a-302 of the Act, hereby designates the hereinafter defined Property as a
voluntary energy assessment area for purposes of section 11-42a-302(2) of the Act and HEREBY
LEVIES AN ENERGY ASSESSMENT AGAINST AND LIEN UPON certain real property
commonly referred to as __________________, ______________________, Utah 84___ and
more particularly described in Schedule I, attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference
(the “Property”), and situated in _____________ County, Utah.

       Property Owner hereby consents to the City’s/County’s designation of the energy
assessment area, the levying of the Assessment, and creation of the Lien on the Property.

       Property Owner hereby acknowledges that participation in the Commercial Property
Assessed Clean Energy Program (the “C-PACE Program”) is expected to result in enhanced
performance of the building and other improvements located on the Property.

       As required by section 11-42a-202 of the Act, Property Owner has provided to the
City/County:




                                                1
HB: 4820-3197-1502.6
        (a) the written consent from each person or institution holding a lien on the Property;
        (b) evidence that there are no delinquent taxes, special assessments, or water or sewer
charges on the Property;
        (c) evidence that the Property is not subject to a trust deed or other lien on which there is
a recorded notice of default, foreclosure, or delinquency, that has not been cured; and
        (d) evidence that there are no involuntary liens, including a lien on the Property, or on the
proceeds of a contract relating to the Property, for services, labor, or materials furnished in
connection with the construction or improvement of the Property.

The Assessment, together with any penalties and interest thereon:

         (a) is superior to the lien of a trust deed, mortgage, mechanic’s lien or materialman’s lien,
             or other encumbrances against the Property from the date on which this Energy
             Assessment and Lien is filed in the Official Public Records of ____________ County;
         (b) has the same priority as:
             (i) a lien for general property taxes;
             (ii) any other energy assessment levied under the Act;
             (iii) an assessment levied under Title 11, Chapter 42, Assessment Area Act; and
         (c) continues until the Assessment and any related reduced payment obligations, interest,
             penalties, and costs are paid.

         Contemporaneously with execution of this Energy Assessment and Lien, the City/County
shall assign, pursuant to an Assignment of Energy Assessment Lien of even date herewith, all of
its right, title, and interest in and to the Energy Assessment and Lien to Third-Party Lender. This
Energy Assessment and Lien shall secure the repayment of a loan to finance one or more eligible
improvements as evidenced by the PACE Supplemental Agreement between the Property Owner
and the Third-Party Lender dated __________, 20__ (the “Financing Agreement”). This Energy
Assessment and Lien is subject to the terms and conditions of the Financing Agreement and all
statutory requirements of the Act.

         The Assessment shall not exceed the sum of:

         (a) the contract price or estimated contract price;
         (b) overhead costs not to exceed 15% of the sum of the contract price or estimated contract
         price;
         (c) an amount for contingencies of not more than 10% of the sum of the contract price or
         estimated contract price, if the Assessment is levied before the completion of the
         construction of the improvements in the energy assessment area;
         (d) capitalized interest; and
         (e) an amount sufficient to fund a reserve fund.

       Upon the transfer or conveyance of the Property, each subsequent owner of the Property,
by accepting title to the Property, assumes and agrees to perform all of the obligations and
covenants set forth herein and in the Financing Agreement and all other documents referenced


                                                   2
HB: 4820-3197-1502.6
therein, including, without limitation, making the installment payments described in the Financing
Agreement, from and after the date such owner acquires title to the Property.

       This Energy Assessment and Lien constitutes a notice of assessment interest and Third-
Party Lender, on behalf of the City/County, shall file it, within five days after its effective date,
with the office of the ___________ County Recorder pursuant to the provisions of the Act to
evidence a lien for the energy assessment levied upon the Property for the special benefits
conferred upon said Property by the installation of one or more eligible improvements. As required
by section 11-42a-201(4) of the Act, this Energy Assessment and Lien hereby states that the
City/County has an assessment interest in the Property and describes the Property by legal
description and tax identification number.

        In the event of a sale or transfer of the Property by Property Owner, the obligation for the
Assessment and the Property Owner’s obligation under the Financing Agreement will be
transferred to the succeeding owner without recourse on the City/County and with recourse on the
Property Owner only for the unpaid installments of the Assessment that became due during
Property Owner’s period of ownership. Property Owner agrees that all improvements purchased,
constructed and/or installed through financing obtained pursuant to the Act, shall be permanently
affixed to the Property and will transfer with the Property to a transferee in the event of a sale or
assignment of the Property.

        The lien created by this Energy Assessment and Lien runs with the land and is binding
upon the Property Owner, its heirs, successors and assigns. Any portion of the Assessment that
has not yet become due and payable is not eliminated by a foreclosure.

        This Energy Assessment and Lien shall in all respects be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of Utah. Each party expressly agrees to the jurisdiction of
the district courts of the State of Utah.


REPRESENTATION REGARDING ETHICAL STANDARDS FOR CITY/COUNTY
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES AND FORMER CITY/COUNTY OFFICERS AND
EMPLOYEES:

       Property Owner represents that it has not: (1) provided an illegal gift or payoff to a
City/County officer or employee or former City/County officer or employee, or his or her relative
or business entity; (2) retained any person to solicit or secure this contract upon an agreement or
understanding for a commission, percentage, or brokerage or contingent fee, other than bona fide
employees or bona fide commercial selling agencies for the purpose of securing business; (3)
knowingly breached any of the ethical standards set forth in the City’s/County’s conflict of interest
ordinance, Chapter ____________, ______________ City/County Code; or (4) knowingly
influenced, and hereby promises that it will not knowingly influence, a City/County officer or
employee or former City/County officer or employee to breach any of the ethical standards set
forth in the City’s/County’s conflict of interest ordinance, Chapter ____, ___________
City/County Code.



                                                 3
HB: 4820-3197-1502.6
Legal description of assessed property:


Tax ID No:


THE ENERGY ASSESSMENT AREA PURSUANT TO UTAH STATE CODE 11-42A-202
SHALL NOT INCLUDE ANY PROPERTY ENCUMBERED BY ANY PREVIOUSLY
RECORDED MORTGAGE OR DEED OF TRUST LIEN UNLESS A WRITTEN CONSENT
AGREEMENT IS EXECUTED BY THE HOLDER OF EACH EXISTING MORTGAGE OR
DEED OF TRUST OR OTHER LIEN ON THE PROPERTY. EACH SUCH CONSENT
AGREEMENT IS ATTACHED HERETO AND MADE PART HEREOF, OR HAS
OTHERWISE BEEN PREVIOUSLY RECORDED.




                                 [Continues on following page.]




                                               4
HB: 4820-3197-1502.6
EXECUTED effective as of ________________, 20_____.

PROPERTY OWNER:

______________________

         By: _____________________

         By: _____________________________

         Name: ___________________________

         Title: ____________________________

         Address: __________________________



STATE OF UTAH

                                  ss:

COUNTY OF __________



           On the ____day of _________, 20__ personally appeared before me
____________________(insert signer name), who being duly sworn did say that he/she (delete
one) is the _____________ of _______________________________, and that the attached
instrument was signed on behalf of said Company, and said person acknowledged to me that said
______________ company executed the same.




                                            ________________________________________

                                                         Notary Public




                                              5
HB: 4820-3197-1502.6
EXECUTED effective as of ________________, 20_____.



LOCAL GOVERNMENT: ________________________________________

By: ____________________________

Name: ______________________________

Title:




STATE OF UTAH

                       ss:

COUNTY OF ________________



           On the ____day of _________, 20__ personally appeared before me
____________________(insert signer name), who being duly sworn did say that he/she (delete
one) is the _____________ of the ____________________, and that the attached instrument
was signed on behalf of the City/County , and that the City/County executed the same.




                                    _______________________________________________

                                                        Notary Public   Address




                                             6
HB: 4820-3197-1502.6
                                SCHEDULE I

                       DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY




                       Tax ID No: ____________________




                                      7
HB: 4820-3197-1502.6
                               KEARNS COMMUNITY COUNCIL
                               Rules of Order and Procedure
                     Adopted April 13, 2026 via Ordinance 2026-O-03
These Rules of Order and Procedure (“Rules”) shall govern the Kearns Community Council’s
(“Committee”) meeting and set forth procedures to facilitate efficient and effective decision-
making processes that are accountable and transparent.

ARTICLE I – MEETINGS GENERALLY
   A. Regular Meetings

       1. Regular meetings shall be held at least monthly, or as often as it deems necessary but
          not less than quarterly.

   B. Electronic Meetings

       1. Committee members may participate in meetings electronically (by phone, internet, or
          other similar technology) in accordance with the provisions of the City’s Electronic
          Meeting Policy.

   C. Parliamentary Order and Procedure

       1. General order for a deliberative agenda item;

          a. The Chair introduces each agenda item;

          b. City staff or Committee members are invited to present background on the item and
             provide comments and/or recommendations;

          c. Committee members ask questions and seek clarification on issues presented;

          d. Committee members discuss and debate the issues;

          e. Committee members put forth a motion for consideration and vote;

          f. The Chair requests a vote on the item.

   D. Voting

       1. Each voting Committee member shall be entitled to only one vote upon each matter
          submitted to a vote.




                                               1
ARTICLE II COMMITTEE MEETING SCHEDULE, AGENDAS, AND MINUTES

The Committee shall have a notice and agenda that complies with the Utah Open and Public
Meetings Act, Utah Code § 52-4-102 et seq.
   A. The Committee Chair may direct the assigned staff liaisons to cancel or reschedule a
      meeting. Changes to a meeting date shall be noticed on the City website and Utah Open
      and Public Notice website at https://www.utah.gov/pmn.

   B. Electronic meeting participation shall be in accordance with Utah Open and Public
      Meetings Act and City’s Electronic Meeting Policy; however, in-person attendance is
      strongly encouraged to avoid possible technical difficulties that may arise with electronic
      meetings.

   C. Staff liaisons shall have discretion to prepare agendas with consultation of the Committee
      Chair prior to finalization of the agenda.

   D. Committee Members may submit agenda items to the Chair and staff liaisons for
      consideration prior to inclusion on the agenda. All agenda item requests shall be submitted
      a minimum of two (2) weeks prior to the meeting to provide staff liaisons the ability to
      research and prepare materials for the meeting packet.

   E. The Chair and staff liaisons shall consider agenda items for alignment with Committee
      mandates, objectives and goals, workplans, and strategic plan priorities prior to addition to
      the Committee agenda.

   F. Agendas shall contain:
      1. Date, time and place of meeting
      2. Citizen comment
      3. List of all matters to be discussed with accompanying materials included in packet
      4. Chair & staff announcements or reports
      5. Approval of minutes
      6. Adjournment

   G. Agendas and all meeting materials shall be published and provided to the Committee
      members a minimum of five (5) days prior to the meeting.

   H. Revised agendas may be provided with the approval of the Chair up to twenty-four (24)
      hours prior to the scheduled meeting.

   I. Minutes of every meeting shall be recorded by the staff liaison, or designee, and approved
      by the Committee at their subsequent meeting.

   J. Approved minutes shall be posted on the City website and Utah Public Notice website.




                                                2
ARTICLE III ROLE OF THE CHAIR AND OTHER COMMITTEE MEMBERS:
The Chair shall preside at meetings of the Committee and shall:
   A. Participate in discussion of all matters.

   B. Vote as a member.

   C. Possess primary responsibility for ensuring that the rules of procedure are followed:

       1. Maintain the dignity of Committee meetings.

       2. Call the meeting to order and confine the discussion to the agenda.

       3. Recognize Committee members for motions and statements and permit audience and
          staff participation at appropriate times.

       4. Follow and apply the rules of parliamentary procedure.

       5. Ensure compliance with the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.

       6. Discourage members courteously from monopolizing the discussions.

       7. Ensure those who have the floor are not interrupted.

       8. Recognize the member offering the motion, restates the motion, requests a second to
          the motion, presents it to the Committee for consideration, calls for the vote, announces
          the vote, and then announces the next order of business.

   D. The Committee members shall:

       1. Ensure their remarks apply to the agenda item being considered.

       2. Avoid references to personalities and refrain from questioning motives of other
          members or staff personnel.

       3. Demonstrate courtesy and do not disrupt proceedings.

       4. Refrain from using their positions to secure privileges or personal gains and avoid the
          appearance of impropriety.

       5. Be dedicated to the effective use of the City’s available resources.

       6. Refrain from any activity that would hinder their ability to be objective and impartial.

       7. Ensure that City business is discussed in open, well-publicized meetings.



                                                  3
ARTICLE IV PARLIAMENTARY RULES:
The Committee shall follow the following parliamentary rules.
RULE NO. 1: The meeting is governed by the agenda and the agenda constitutes the
Committee’s agreed-upon roadmap for the meeting.
PROCEDURE. Each agenda item can be handled by the Chair in the following basic format:
   •   The Chair should clearly announce the agenda item number and should clearly state what
       the agenda item subject is.

   •   The Chair should invite the appropriate person or persons to report on the item, including
       any recommendation that they might have.

   •   The Chair should ask members of the Committee if they have any technical questions for
       clarification.

   •   The Chair may invite public comments on the matter being considered.

   •   The Chair should invite a motion and request a second for the motion by another member.

   •   The Chair shall announce the name of the members making and seconding the motion. If
       no second to the motion is offered the motion fails.

   •   The Chair shall repeat the motion and invite discussion of the motion.

   •   If no discussion is made or after the discussion, the Chair shall call for a vote of the motion.

   •   The Chair shall announce the votes in favor and opposed to the motion and announce the
       results of the motion.

   •   A motion to adjourn the meeting shall not require a second of the motion but shall require
       a vote of the committee members.

PURPOSE OF THE RULE. To provide structure for the conduct of the Committee’s meetings in
an orderly manner.




                                                  4
RULE NO 2: One question at a time and one speaker at a time.
PROCEDURE. Only one question shall be discussed at a time. There shall only be one speaker at
a time. Anyone who wishes to speak should raise their hand first after the current speaker finishes
or otherwise indicate to the Chair that they would like to comment. The Chair shall call upon the
person by name. Once a member has been recognized, the member has been granted “the floor”
and may begin speaking. The speaker may not be interrupted except as allowed by these rules.
PURPOSE OF THE RULE. The purpose is to focus on only one question and to allow committee
members the ability to fully express their points of consideration with composure and without fear
of interruption.
RULE NO 3: Five yes votes are required to pass any item before the committee.
PROCEDURE. Regardless of how many committee members are present, an affirmative vote of
five (5) members is required to pass any motion.

PURPOSE OF THE RULE. Utah statutes set out both the number of the quorum and the minimum
vote required on any issue.

RULE NO 4: Public Comments and Rules of Conduct

PROCEDURE. Any person presenting public comments or other information to the Committee
shall speak in a civil manner, with due respect for the decorum of the meeting, and with due respect
for all persons attending.

   •   No member of the public shall be heard until recognized by the Chair.

   •   Public comments shall only be heard during the “public comment” portion of the meeting
       unless a member of the public is asked to speak on a matter by the Chair.

   •   Speakers must state their name and address for the record.

   •   Any resident requesting to speak shall limit him or herself to matters of fact regarding the
       issue of concern.

   •   Comments should be limited to three (3) minutes unless given prior approval by the Chair.

   •   Personal attacks made publicly toward any person by any person, including members of
       the public, Committee members, or City employees or agents, are not allowed.

   •   Any member of the public interrupting Committee proceedings or creating a disturbance,
       or failing to abide by these rules of procedure in addressing the Committee, shall be deemed
       to have disrupted a public meeting and, at the direction of the Chair, shall be removed from
       meeting by the police or another designated agent of the City.


                                                 5
PURPOSE OF THE RULE. To ensure that: (i) residents of the City have the right to provide public
comment at Committee meetings; and (ii) to provide rules of conduct to govern the conduct of the
Committee’s meetings.




                                               6
   Freelance Visual Storyteller & Content Producer
Location: Kearns, UT (Hybrid: On-site filming/meetings; Remote editing)

Compensation: $1,500 – $2,000 Monthly Retainer (Based on Portfolio)

Type: Independent Contractor

   The Mission

Kearns is a city of stories. We are seeking a creative partner to build the visual image of our
community. We don't just want someone to "record events"; we want a storyteller who can take
city initiatives and turn them into educational, entertaining, and emotionally resonant videos that
make residents proud to call Kearns home.

   The Workload

This role operates on a flexible monthly retainer.

   ●​ Video Production: Average of 3 videos per month (Max 5 during peak seasons).
   ●​ Video Length: Average of 2 minutes, with occasional "Deep Dives" up to 5 minutes.
   ●​ Civic Support: Provide technical production management for one Monthly City
      Council Meeting. We offer high flexibility—if a scheduling conflict arises, we work with
      you to find a solution.

   Key Responsibilities

   ●​ End-to-End Production: Storyboarding, filming, lighting, audio, and professional
      editing.
   ●​ Image Building: Create a consistent, high-quality "look and feel" for the City.
   ●​ Meeting Management: Ensure the monthly council meeting is produced professionally
      for public record and viewing.

   Required Equipment

As a freelancer, you must provide your own professional production kit, including:

   ●​   4K-capable camera and professional lenses.
   ●​   Audio gear (Lavalier and shotgun microphones).
   ●​   Stabilization (Gimbals/Tripods) and portable lighting.
   ●​   Professional editing suite (Adobe Premiere, DaVinci Resolve, or Final Cut).
   How to Apply (Submission Requirements)

To be considered, please submit the following:

   1.​ A Professional Demo Reel: A highlight video showcasing your best cinematography,
       color grading, and editing rhythm.
   2.​ A Narrative Work Sample: A link to one full-length video (2–5 minutes) that
       demonstrates your ability to tell a story with dialogue, interviews, or educational content.
   3.​ Equipment List: A brief summary of the gear and software you will use for this contract.
   4.​ Resume/Bio: Highlighting your experience with community or brand storytelling.
                   Kearns City Council & Community Update
                                                               April 13, 2026




Our Vision: A sustainable, united organization that provides for the welfare of our communities.
Our Mission: To provide sustainable quality integrated waste and recycling collection services for the health and safety of our community… because not
everything fits in the can.
Our Goals: Sustain a High 90th percentile of Customer Satisfaction, Achieve a High 80th Percentile of Employee Satisfaction, Environmental and Financial
Stewardship and Loss Prevention.
                                                   WFWRD Services Overview
Base Residential Services ($26/month) include:
  • Weekly 96-gallon curbside garbage & recycling collections
  • Bulky waste collection via Seasonal Container Reservation Program (SCRP)
        • April through September (~$1.2M/year)
  • Landfill Vouchers for a residential truck, car, or trailer loads (~$75k/year)
  • Central glass drop-off recycling locations and hauling
  • Container Repair and Replacement (5 to 7 business days)
  • Seasonal Services:
        • Central leaf bag distribution, collections/hauling, and disposition (~$125k/year)
        • Curbside Christmas tree collections and disposition (~$75k/year)
  • Recycling Education & Outreach and Special Events participation
  • In-House, Local Customer Service (M-F 8am-4:45pm)
  • In-House, Local Billing/Account Management
        • Monthly Billing began in 2026 (first bill in February)

Subscription Services:
  • Curbside Green Waste Reclamation Services (March-December)
        • $12.00 per month

  • Curbside Glass Recycling                                                            2025 District-wide Tonnages
                                                                                           Jan. 1 - Dec. 30, 2025
        • $8.50 per month
WFWRD Service Areas
                             No. of Homes
         Service Area         Serviced
     Millcreek                     15,748
                                            •   WFWRD services more
     Taylorsville                  13,790
                                                than 10,000 households in
     Herriman                      10,906
                                                the City of Kearns
     Kearns                        10,023
     Cottonwood Heights             9,978
                                            •   86,495 total homes
     Holladay                       9,091
                                                serviced as of December
     Magna                          7,991
                                                31, 2025
     Murray                         2,865
     White City                     1,826
                                            •   Collection and go-back
     Sandy Hills                      819
                                                days are established to
     Emigration Canyon                607
                                                maximize efficiencies
     Brighton                         591
     Sandy City                       506
                                            •   Disposition facilities for
     Willow Creek                     501
                                                trash and recycling are
     Granite                          435
                                                based on geographic
     Copperton                        285
                                                service area and cost
     Willow Canyon                    248
     Southwest                        211
                                            •   “Other” includes Little
     Other                             56
                                                Cottonwood Canyon and
     Big Cottonwood Canyon             13
                                                North Salt Lake County
     4B Lane                            5
     Totals                        86,495
 Homes Serviced by WFWRD
                        Total Homes Serviced & Cans per Service Area as of December 31, 2025

                           No. of Homes    Trash Cans      Recycle Cans    Green Cans      Glass Cans
    Service Area             Serviced      Combined         Combined       Combined        Combined
                                                                                                           Total Cans
Millcreek                         15,748         16,838           15,656          3,343             821          36,658
Taylorsville                      13,790         15,650           13,903          1,697             117          31,367
Herriman                          10,906         12,445           11,273          1,866             -            25,584
Kearns                            10,023         10,988           10,184            520             -            21,692
Cottonwood Heights                 9,978         10,985           10,084          1,756             405          23,230
Holladay                           9,091         10,399            9,164          1,841             364          21,768
Magna                              7,991          8,763            8,040            474             -            17,277
Murray                             2,865          3,172            2,863            433             102           6,570
White City                         1,826          2,018            1,848            182               21          4,069
Sandy Hills                          819            942              831            103                8          1,884
Emigration Canyon                    607            629              592              92              60          1,373
Brighton                             591            -                -              -               -               -
Sandy City                           506            588              505              70              13          1,176
Willow Creek                         501            618              518              97               6          1,239
Granite                              435            545              446              53              24          1,068
Copperton                            285            301              287               8            -               596
Willow Canyon                        248            273              249              50               9            581
Southwest                            211            256              222               3            -               481
Other                                 56            -                -              -               -               -
Big Cottonwood Canyon                 13            -                -              -               -               -
4B Lane                                5              11               2            -               -                 13
Totals                            86,495         95,421           86,667         12,588           1,950         196,626
       2025 Curbside Tons Collected by Service Area
                                                                      2025 Curbside Tons by Service Area, Material Type, and Disposition Facility
                                                                                       Total
                                                                                                                               Total      Curbside                                                                                      Diversion
    Service Area                    SLV LF                SLV TS       TransJordan Curbside          RMR          WM                                                                              Glass                 Totals
                                                                                                                              Recycle      Green                                                                                          Rate
                                                                                      Waste
Millcreek                                   193.63            18,357.46                  -             18,551.09            3,004.67                 -          3,004.67            1,567.89            409.50           23,533.15                21%
Taylorsville                              1,732.20            15,992.35                  -             17,724.56            2,305.00              601.94        2,906.94              822.53             57.50           21,511.53                18%
Herriman/SW Unicorp.                           -                    -              14,931.67           14,931.67            2,605.92                 -          2,605.92              817.21             33.76           18,388.56                19%
Kearns                                   11,707.03             2,492.38                  -             14,199.41               59.46            2,186.00        2,245.46              239.48             11.87           16,696.21                15%
Cottonwood Heights                             -              11,556.87                  -             11,556.87            2,015.71                 -          2,015.71              776.36            159.13           14,508.07                20%
Holladay                                       -              10,994.93                  -             10,994.93            1,920.75                 -          1,920.75              996.51             94.40           14,006.59                22%
Magna                                    11,057.86               479.08                  -             11,536.94               43.18            1,768.71        1,811.89              213.01               -             13,561.84                15%
Murray                                         -               3,486.49                  -              3,486.49              754.37                 -            754.37              236.73             17.74            4,495.33                22%
Sandy Area                                     -               2,908.48                  -              2,908.48              505.90                 -            505.90              163.92             23.17            3,601.48                19%
White City                                     -               2,113.68                  -              2,113.68              375.89                 -            375.89               80.61              8.50            2,578.68                18%
Emigration Canyon                              -                 679.07                  -                679.07              150.29                 -            150.29               40.53             19.73              889.62                24%
Copperton                                      -                    -                 381.25              381.25               64.10                 -             64.10                3.57              0.86              449.78                15%
          Totals                         24,690.72            69,060.79            15,312.92          109,064.43           13,853.16            4,556.65       18,409.81            5,958.34            836.16          134,268.74             18.77%

                                                                                                   2025 Curbside Tons Collected by Service Area
             Millcreek
           Taylorsville
 Herriman/SW Unicorp.
              Kearns
   Cottonwood Heights
             Holladay
               Magna
              Murray
           Sandy Area
            White City
    Emigration Canyon
            Copperton

                           0                                         5,000                                            10,000                                   15,000                                    20,000                                       25,000
                               Copperton       Emigration Canyon      White City         Sandy Area           Murray              Magna             Holladay   Cottonwood Heights     Kearns     Herriman/SW Unicorp.    Taylorsville     Millcreek
          Curbside Waste        381.25              679.07            2,113.68            2,908.48           3,486.49            11,536.94         10,994.93        11,556.87        14,199.41         14,931.67         17,724.56        18,551.09
          Recycle                64.10               150.29               375.89           505.90             754.37              1,811.89          1,920.75        2,015.71         2,245.46          2,605.92           2,906.94        3,004.67
          Curbside Green         3.57                40.53                80.61            163.92             236.73              213.01            996.51          776.36            239.48           817.21              822.53         1,567.89
          Glass                  0.86                19.73                 8.50            23.17              17.74                  -               94.40          159.13            11.87             33.76              57.50           409.50


                                                                                                       Curbside Waste          Recycle       Curbside Green    Glass
Cost Comparisons to Other Companies/Agencies/Service Areas
• WFWRD has developed a new service cost comparison throughout the Salt Lake metropolitan area, including Salt Lake
  County, Utah County, and Davis County
• Due to the varying types of services offered, costs comparisons are often ‘apples to oranges’ and are not directly
  comparable (e.g., biweekly v. weekly recycle collection)
• WFWRD has learned that several cities utilize general fund sources to provide ancillary and administrative services
  whereas WFWRD operates as a single enterprise fund with limited revenue sources and overall serviceability

    2025 Curbside Tipping Costs by Service Area & Material Type                                               2025 Total Curbside Tipping Costs by Service Area and
                                  Total                                                                                    Number of Homes Serviced
                    Curbside                 Curbside
   Service Area                 Curbside                   Totals                                     $1,000,000
                     Waste                    Green
                                 Recycle                                                               $900,000           y = 57.41x + 160.76
                                                                                                                              R² = 0.9835
                                                                                                                                                                                             Taylorsville
                                                                                                                                                                          Herriman/SW Unicorp.
Millcreek                $685,281.89   $146,064.32    $26,656.59   $858,002.80                         $800,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Millcreek
Taylorsville             $642,868.43   $139,646.83    $14,108.12   $796,623.37                         $700,000




                                                                                 Total Tipping Cost
Herriman/SW Unicorp.     $612,907.08   $127,437.37    $13,960.72   $754,305.17
                                                                                                       $600,000
Kearns                   $438,508.07   $119,840.16     $4,093.69   $562,441.93                                                                               Holladay            Kearns

Cottonwood Heights       $427,652.06    $98,635.68    $13,211.67   $539,499.41                         $500,000                                             Magna
                                                                                                                                                                                 Cottonwood Heights
Holladay                 $407,030.55    $94,747.87    $16,860.16   $518,638.58                         $400,000
Magna                    $344,824.23    $97,096.32     $3,638.94   $445,559.49
                                                                                                       $300,000
Murray                   $129,069.46    $36,572.31     $4,005.24   $169,647.01
                                                                                                                           Sandy Area Murray
Sandy Area               $107,625.91    $24,755.62     $2,789.47   $135,171.00                         $200,000
                                                                                                                       Copperton
White City                $78,214.92    $18,393.67     $1,371.75    $97,980.33                         $100,000                        White City
Emigration Canyon         $25,128.26     $7,162.80       $689.70    $32,980.76                                                 Emigration Canyon
                                                                                                             $0
Copperton                 $15,649.16     $3,134.65        $61.03    $18,844.84                                     -          2,000        4,000    6,000     8,000     10,000      12,000      14,000      16,000
          Totals       $3,914,760.02   $914,678.22   $101,447.08 $4,930,885.32                                                                      No. of Homes Serviced
Cost Comparisons to Other Companies/Agencies/Service Areas
                                                     Kearns Service Area
               January through December Tonnage Comparisons and Landfill Vouchers




✓2024: 2,729 Landfill Vouchers redeemed District-wide at the Trans-     ✓2024: 688 Landfill Vouchers redeemed by Kearns Service Area
 Jordan & Salt Lake County Sites totaling $42,370 in customer savings   residents totaling $11,008 in customer savings
✓2025: 2,636 Landfill Vouchers redeemed District-wide at the Trans-     ✓2025: 465 Landfill Vouchers redeemed by Kearns Service Area
 Jordan & Salt Lake County Sites totaling $41,800 in customer savings    residents totaling $7,440 in customer savings
           January-December 2025 Kearns Service Area Tonnages and Diversion


          Curbside Refuse                                           ✓ The 10,023 homes in the Kearns Service Area are
          (Garbage): 14,199 tons
          collected                                                   ~12% of the 86,495 homes serviced by the District

                                                                    ✓ Kearns Service Area residents diverted 15% of waste
                                                                      away from the landfill

                                                                    ✓ Average garbage disposal fee for Kearns = $30.88
                                                                      per ton (Salt Lake Valley Landfill/Transfer Station)

                                                                    ✓ Average recycling processing fee for Kearns at Rocky
                                                                      Mountain Recycling = $43.81 per ton. At Waste
Curbside Green Waste:
Approximately 239 tons
                                     15%      Curbside Recycling:
                                              2,245 tons diverted     Management = $53.63 per ton. Overall was $53.37
diverted (457 Subscribers)         Diverted                           per ton.

                                                                    ✓ Recycling contamination rate has decreased 17.22%
                                                                      from 2023 averaging a 5.7-point reduction per year

                                                                    ✓ Processing for green curbside = $17.09 per ton
2025 Preliminary Revenues & Expenses (unaudited)
                                                YTD             Budget      Percent
                                               Actuals           2025      of Budget
Revenues
Total Revenues                             $   32,901,016   $ 31,292,700     105.14%   • 2025 financials do not include capital
                                                                                         replacement expenses
Expenses                                                                                   • 2025 approved capital expenses totaled
Personnel Expenses                                                                           $5.57M (actual = $2.66M)
Total Personnel Expenses                   $   11,022,435   $ 12,803,700      86.09%
                                                                                       • WFWRD has implemented several cost-
Operating Expenses                                                                       savings measures in 2025 while retaining
Fuel                                       $    1,118,654   $  1,641,500      68.15%     all lines-of-service
Maintenance                                     4,868,365      5,078,600      95.86%       • Reduction-in-Force (RIF) – 3 FTEs
Disposal Fees SLValley Landfill                 3,758,741      3,880,000      96.87%
Disposal Fees TransJordan and Other               707,690        770,700      91.82%       • Reclassification of some administrative
                                                                                             positions
Vendor Recycling Fees                             903,436      1,045,000      86.45%
Can Purchases                                     609,769        565,000     107.92%       • Optimizing scheduling and routing to minimize
County Interlocal IT/Phone Services               273,482        241,200     113.38%         overtime/maximize efficiencies
Land Leases                                        11,500         11,900      96.64%       • Verification of reported missed pickups
County Interlocal Shared Bldg Costs               355,352        370,900      95.81%       • SCRP and Landfill Voucher process
County Interlocal Operations/Truck Lease          137,409        143,800      95.56%         optimization
Attorney/Legal                                     47,771         37,300     128.07%
                                                                                           • Ongoing vendor renewal negotiations
Property Insurance/Claims                         389,734        330,500     117.92%
Other (mailing, postage, office, adv)           1,329,587      1,677,860      79.24%       • Purchase of diesel v. CNG trucks due to
Depreciation                                    2,361,207      2,620,000      90.12%
                                                                                             elevated costs
Interest Expense                                   48,249         74,740      64.56%   • Absorbing increased costs, where
Total Operating Expenses                   $   16,920,946   $ 18,489,000      91.52%
                                                                                         practicable
Total Expenses                             $   27,943,381   $ 31,292,700      89.30%
2025 Costs Savings Realized
                         Description                       Cost Savings                         Notes
Purchase of Diesel v. CNG Trucks ($50,000 × 8)              $400,000          One-time (ongoing in 2026)
Reduction-in-Force (RIF)                                    $225,000          Ongoing
Underfilling Supervisor/QA Positions                        $265,000          Ongoing
Administrative Reclass (i.e., Controller/Treasurer)          $35,000          Ongoing
Route Optimization (fuel/R&M/tipping fee reduction)         $550,000          Ongoing
Scheduling Optimization (Reduction in Overtime)             $135,000          Ongoing
Verification of Reported Missed Pickups                      $95,000          One-time (ongoing in 2026)
Limited Can Service Audit (underbilled accounts)             $90,000          Ongoing
Vendor Transitions & Renewal Negotiations                    $25,000          Ongoing

• Quantifiable cost savings for calendar 2025 totaled $1,820,000, many of which include ongoing
  savings in 2026
      • This equates to ~5% of the combined operating and capital budget ($36.8M) that was approved for 2025
• Priorities, Goals, and Initiatives (PGIs) being led by the General Manager will track efficiency and cost
  savings throughout the calendar year and will identify ongoing v. one-time costs savings
      • New cost savings identified as of March 2026 already exceed $500k with additional savings anticipated
        throughout 2026
 Seasonal Container Reservation Program (SCRP) Updates
City              % of Repeats   % of Repeats   % of Repeats   • In 2026, WFWRD is strategizing to increase SCRP service capacity to better
                  2023           2024           2025             meet SCRP service demand
4B Lane           100%           100%           50%            • The overall bulky waste program offered by WFWRD is being evaluated in an
Copperton         35%            77%            64%              attempt to identify and implement the optimal program structure (estimated
Cottonwood Heights 34%           38%            14%              2027, if applicable)
Granite           57%            35%            25%
                                                               • The fee-based residential trailer rental program is unavailable in 2026 with a
Herriman          36%            40%            33%
                                                                 shift of resources to support SCRP
Holladay          25%            41%            30%
Kearns            38%            41%            23%            • The tiered reservation system has continued to be refined and optimized in
Magna             35%            40%            16%              2026
Millcreek         39%            36%            11%                              Historical & 2026 Projected       2023     2024     2025     2026
Murray            34%            43%            36%            Seasonal Budgeted Positions (Drivers/Ground Crew)   10 / 4   10 / 4   10 / 4   12 / 0
Sandy City        17%            50%            5%
                                                               Permanent Budgeted Positions (Drivers)               NA       NA       NA        2
Sandy Hills       27%            21%            22%
                                                               Total Budgeted Positions (Seasonal & Permanent)     10 / 4   10 / 4   10 / 4   14 / 0
Southwest         73%            21%            54%
Taylorsville      34%            34%            11%
                                                               Actual Positions (Drivers/Ground Crew)               6/3     6/3      8/0       TBD
White City        34%            37%            3%             Trucks Leased / Owned                               10 / 3   8/4      8/3      10 / 4
Willow Canyon     60%            33%            44%            Days of Program                                      119      120      120      TBD
Willow Creek      38%            40%            35%            Total Containers Delivered                          7,421    7,105    7,457     TBD
Avg %             42%            43%            28%            Containers Delivered per Day                          62      59       62       ≥72
Tiered Process: How it Works
• “Early Bird” Customers: Residents who were either on last year’s waitlist and did not receive a
  container, or who did not participate in last year’s program, will receive early/priority access to
  reserve a container before general reservations open (generally a two-day window)
• “General Access” Customers: All remaining eligible residents in the service area. After the “Early
  Bird” window closes, any open reservation spots are made available on a first-come, first-served
  basis to eligible residents, including those who previously had a container

  Key Takeaways from Last Year:
  ◦   Starting mid-season last year, reservation slots began opening at 8:00am instead of midnight, and will continue the
      same this year.
  ◦   Because the volume is spread out over a tiered program, we are able to handle the call volume beginning at 8:00am
      each reservation opening day
  ◦   No need for three different tiers, narrowing the program to two tiers to allow “Early Bird” customers a longer amount
      of time to make their reservations
  ◦   Will explain how the program works in community newsletters and social media posts early on in the year
                               2025 SCRP by City Detail
                                                      # of Homes # of SCRP # of Reservation # of Additional Total Tracked # of Containers % Waitlist Containers Serviced as a Total Tons Avg. Tons per
                              Municipality/Area
                                                      in WFWRD Days Spots Available Waitlist Requests Requests 1             Delivered    Fulfilled % of WFWRD Homes Collected Container

                             Holladay                   9,083                                                                    859                             9%             549.04
                                                                     17          1020             680            1,700                        36%                                            0.64
                             Murray                     2,865                                                                    210                             7%             133.59
                             Cottonwood Heights         9,974                                                                    929                             9%             582.20
                                                                     16          960              725            1,685                        29%                                            0.63
                             Willow Creek                500                                                                      55                            11%             230.23
                             Granite                     435                                                                      40                             9%              30.30
In order of areas serviced




                             Sandy Hills/Sandy City     1,323                                                                    118                             9%              89.37
                                                                     3           180              141             196                         45%                                            0.76
                             Willow Canyon               248                                                                      36                            15%              27.27
                             4B Lane (6 homes)            5                                                                       2                             40%               1.51
                             White City                 1,826        3           180              164             344            193          34%               11%             139.12       0.72
                             Herriman, So West         11,056        15          900              460            1,360           898          61%                8%             498.00       0.55
                             Copperton                   285         5           300               7              307             25          100%               9%              13.86       0.55
                             Magna                      7,982        11          660              465            1,125           662          23%                8%             583.08       0.88
                             Kearns                    10,023        15          900              608            1,508           930          25%                9%             765.00       0.82
                             Taylorsville              13,789        19         1140              895            2,035          1,194         13%                9%            1,130.83      0.95
                             Millcreek                 15,742        21         1260              820            2,080          1,306         23%                8%              1,096       0.84
                                 Totals or Avg.        85,136       120         7,500            4,965          12,340          7,457         29%               9%              5,869        0.79
2026 Kearns Area SCRP Service Dates
         2026 Supplemental Bulky Waste Offerings
Additional residential bulky waste drop-off (June 23-25: 8am-2pm)
 ◦ Up to 30 residential loads per hour – online reservations at WFWRDUTAH.gov
    ◦ Staffed and coordinated by WFWRD
         2026 Supplemental Bulky Waste Offerings
Logistics for additional residential bulky waste drop-off (June 23-25: 8am-2pm)
 ◦ Up to 30 residential loads per hour – online reservations at WFWRDUTAH.gov
    ◦ Staffed and coordinated by WFWRD
2027 Bulky Waste Considerations
• WFWRD is in the preliminary stages of evaluating a curbside bulky waste model
   • Would eliminate the need for containers and individual deliveries to/from the
     landfill/transfer station
     • Average tons/container in 2025 was 0.79 with 7,457 individual hauls to a disposal/transfer facility
     • Rear load trucks can haul a capacity of up to 9.0 tons per load
     • If rear loads were used in 2025 with a maximum payload of ~9.0 tons, the number of hauls
       would have been reduced from 7,457 to 655, significantly reducing mileage/fuel, driver time,
       and repair and maintenance costs
   • A curbside program would utilize a rear load truck, front-end loader, and a
     laborer/helper
     • Two crews on rotation would significantly increase capacity and frequency of service
     • Would reduce the reliance of seasonal drivers
     • Would eliminate the need to lease hook lift trucks from the County (10 in 2026)
     • Would reduce repair, maintenance, and fuel costs (28,000 miles driven in 2025)
   • What would we need?
     • Support from partner cities and code compliance departments
     • Large-scale education and outreach campaign
   • Existing SCRP containers could be used as a fee-based service for construction and
     demolition debris, remodels, roofing replacements, etc.
Acceptable & Prohibited Materials
• Non-WFWRD bulky waste programs do not accept a variety of materials being accepted via SCRP:
   • Construction and demolition debris
   • Rocks, sod, dirt, cinderblocks, and other heavy weight materials
   • Asphalt shingles, roofing replacement materials, contractor/home renovation waste
• In 2026, WFWRD has updated its SCRP agreement to explicitly prohibit the following materials (potential assessments):
   • Tires (of any size or quantity)
   • Hazardous, radioactive, toxic, or other regulated wastes, including but not limited to asbestos, solvents, paints, hydrocarbons, antifreeze,
     pesticides, herbicides, propane tanks, gasoline, freon, batteries, fuel/oil products of any kind, compressed gases, polychlorinated biphenyls
     (PCBs), mercury or mercury containing devices, uranium mill tailings, and biohazardous or infectious laboratory/medical waste
   • Materials contaminated with or used in the production of methamphetamines
   • Ammunition, firearms, or explosives
   • Engines, transmissions, or other items that may pose risks to human health and the environment (e.g., catalytic converters, lead acid batteries,
     and lithium batteries, including electric vehicle batteries)
   • Barrels, drums, or containers over five (5) gallons in capacity unless they have been completely emptied, had the top removed, been cut or
     punctured to render them unusable, and contain no residue
   • Freon or freon-containing appliances
   • Animal carcasses and human excrement, remains, or body parts
   • Materials containing free liquids as defined in 40 CFR 260.10
   • Materials generated by commercial, contractor, or industrial activities
   • Materials that attract, generate, or harbor vermin or rodents, present conditions that are harmful to public health, or that create a fire hazard,
     safety hazard, odor, or nuisance
                                Upcoming Items & Initiatives
• Transition to new payment services platform (May 2026)
    • Simple and secure payments
         • Online, in-person, phone (IVR), automatic payments, etc.
         • Paperless and autopay customers will need to register an account
              • Customers with emails on file will receive a notice with a link to register an
                account (noreply+wasatch-fwr-district@paydici.com)
• Transition to postcard billing (June 2026)
    • Reduced printing and mailing costs ($200k annually)
    • Paperless, e-bills are strongly encouraged
• Board of Trustees Strategic Planning Retreat (April 27)
• Line-of-Service Financial Assessment by Geographic Service Area
    • WFWRD service areas are not all the same (density, needs, wants)
    • Considerations for differing service levels (weekly v. biweekly recycling)
• Continued bulky waste program improvement analysis
• Curbside Glass recycling subscription service pending for Kearns &
  Magna (estimated Summer 2026)
    • Administered by WFWRD – services provided by Momentum Recycling
Additional Information
Thank You!

Questions?
             EVAN T YRRELL                   R ENEE P LANT
             General Manager                 Administrative Manager
             604 West 6960 South             604 West 6960 South
             Midvale, UT 84047               Midvale, UT 84047
             Office: (385) 468-6342          Office: (385) 468-6363
             Email: etyrrell@wfwrdutah.gov   Email: replant@wfwrdutah.gov
