                                     CITY OF KEARNS
                                    COUNCIL MEETING
                                         AGENDA
                                        June 9, 2025

                                          Kearns Library
                                         4275 W 5345 S
                                        Kearns, Utah 84118

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Kearns City Council will hold a meeting on the 9th
day of June 2025 beginning at 6:00 p.m. at the Kearns Library, 4275 W 5345 S, Kearns, Utah as
follows:

**Portions of the meeting may be closed for reasons allowed by statue. Motions relating to any of
the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

                                       PUBLIC MEETING

    1.   CALL TO ORDER
    2.   DETERMINE QUORUM
    3.   VISITING OFFICIALS
    4.   CITIZEN PUBLIC INPUT (Limited to 3 Minutes Per Person)

                                        ORDER OF BUSINESS:
    5. CONSENT AGENDA
         A. Approve Council Meeting Minutes
            a. November 12, 2024
            b. May 12, 2025

   6. PUBLIC HEARING ITEMS

         A. Ordinance 2025-O-12, An Ordinance Adjusting Compensation for Mayor and City
            Manager – Nathan Bracken, Legal Counsel
   7. COUNCIL BUSINESS – ACTION ITEMS (Discussion/Motion)
         A. Ordinance 2025-O-09, An Ordinance Adopting the FY2026 City of Kearns Fee Schedule –
            Nathan Bracken, Legal Counsel
         B. Economic Development Report: Transportation Master Plan Update and Kearns Impact Fee
            Study Update – Dan Torres, Economic Development Manager
         C. Scheduling Board of Canvass Meeting Dates – Diana Baun, City Recorder

   8. WORKSHOP (Discussion only) - None


   9. STAKEHOLDER UPDATES / INFORMATION
         A. Kearns Improvement District (KID) - Greg Anderson, General Manager
         B. Kearns Library - Lee Whiting, Librarian
                                                 1
       C. Wasatch Front Waste Recycling District (WFWRD) - Renee Plant, Manager
       D. Unified Fire Authority (UFA) - Chief Russell
       E. Unified Police Department (UPD) - Chief Hughes
       F. Kearns Community Council – Aaron Nickle

   10. OTHER BUSINESS
       A. Future Agenda Business (Motion/Voting)

   11. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE §52-4-
       205
       A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health of
           an individual
       B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation
       C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property
       D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and/or
       E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205


   12. ADJOURN

Upon request, within three working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
will provide free auxiliary aids and services to qualified individuals (including sign language
interpreters, alternative, etc.). For assistance, please call (385) 377-9466 – TTY 711.

JOIN VIA ZOOM:

Meeting link:

https://us06web.zoom.us/j/87277992611?pwd=AP0BNz8kHOyYbLZdHwdIkX1XgJ54qM.1

Meeting ID: 872 7799 2611
Passcode: 790959

POSTED ON: June 7, 2025




                                                  2
                          CITY OF KEARNS
                          COUNCIL MEETING
                          November 12, 2024, 6:00 PM
                          KEARNS LIBRARY - 4275 W 5345 S, KEARNS, UTAH 84118


                       CITY OF KEARNS COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
                            **DRAFT MINUTES – UNAPPROVED**

Council Members Present:
Tina Snow, Vice Chair
Chrystal Butterfield
Alan Peterson
Patrick Schaeffer

Council Members Excused
Kelly Bush, Chair

Staff Present:
Nathan Bracken, Legal Counsel
Nicole Smedley, Clerk/Recorder
Daniel Torres, Economic Development Director
Brian Hartsell, Municipal Services District Associate General Manager
Stewart Obokia, Finance Director
Chief Russell, Unified Fire Department
Chief Hughes, Unified Police Department
Chad Anderson, SLCo Engineer

Others Present:
Lee Whiting, Britta Watts, Roger Snow

1. Call to Order

Mayor Pro Tempore Tina Snow, presiding, called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM. She
excused Mayor Bush who was unable to attend.

2. Determine Quorum

Mayor Pro Tem Snow announced that a quorum was present

**The council agreed unanimously to move straight to Citizen Comments at this point of
the meeting, and return to discuss visiting officials at a later point in the meeting.**

3. Visiting Official


                                CITY OF KEARNS COUNCIL
                       MAYOR KELLY BUSH, DEPUTY MAYOR TINA SNOW
           COUNCIL MEMBER CHRYSTAL BUTTERFIELD, COUNCIL MEMBER ALAN PETERSON,
                           COUNCIL MEMBER PATRICK SCHAEFFER
4. Citizen Public Input

Gray – I come before you to advocate for a Kearns Arts Council. With some input from the
community as well as the mayor, I have restructured the plan to be more of a Kearns Arts
Advisory Committee. I am happy to send that over to you and maybe discuss how we can pass
a resolution at some point in the future that establishes an Arts Advisory Committee.

Nathan Bracken noted this is something Gray has been working on for a while. There are two
ways to do this, setting up a separate 501c3, coordinating with Kearns but not necessarily part
of the Kearns Organization. The other option is to have a committee that is part of the Kearns
umbrella, which would trigger some of the requirements that apply to the council like the Public
Meetings Act, records, etc. There can always be a committee that can become a 501c3 on its
own at a later date.

Gray noted the previous iteration was for more of an organization that would organize events,
this would be more of an organization that would work to procure funding and grants for artists
within Kearns and for artists that want to create art within Kearns. The group would be
beholden to the City Council, and all of the requirements outlined by law.

Council Member Snow requested Gray send that information over to Mayor Bush so it can be
reviewed and discussed on the next agenda.

5. Council Business

   A. Consider approval of Resolution No. 2024-11-01 Approving an Interlocal Cooperation
      Agreement with the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District to Obligate the use of
      American Rescue Plan Act, (ARPA) Funds to Design, Mobilize, and Construct Certain
      Roads and Sidewalk
Brian Hartsell, MSD Associate General Manager stated that about three years ago Kearns
received a distribution of a little over 4.2 million in American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funds, and
they have spent 1.6 million of those funds since that time. All of the funds need to be obligated
by December 31, 2024, or the remaining funds would be lost. The Interlocal Cooperation
Agreement before them on the agenda tonight extends the deadline for obligating those
remaining funds until December 2026.

Council Member Schaeffer motioned to approve Resolution 2024-11-01, approving an
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement to obligate the use of ARPA Funds. Council Member
Butterfield seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor. Mayor Bush was
absent from the vote.

   B. Financial Report




              City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Stewart Okobia, Director of Finance, presented the city’s financial reports from July 1, 2024 to
October 31, 2024 that were included in the meeting packet. He reviewed the information
contained in those pages and opened the floor for questions from the council.
   C. Consider approval of Ordinance No. 2024-11-01, Appointing the Greater Salt Lake
      Municipal Services District as Municipal Engineer for the City of Kearns
Nathan Bracken provided an update regarding the transition of engineering services for
Kearns. Historically, these services had been delivered through an interlocal agreement with
Salt Lake County Engineering, which served all member entities of the Municipal Services
District (MSD). Effective January 1, however, MSD will be internalizing its engineering
functions. Nearly all of the existing Salt Lake County engineering staff—including those serving
Kearns—will be transferring to become MSD employees. This transition includes the hiring of a
new director for the in-house engineering department. He explained that, under Utah law, the
appointment of a municipal engineer must be formalized through an ordinance. To comply with
this requirement and ensure continuity of service, he proposed that the council adopt an
ordinance at the current meeting designating MSD as the official engineering provider for
Kearns, effective January 1, when the new department becomes operational. He noted that
this step was especially timely given that Kearns traditionally does not hold meetings in
December.

Chad Anderson, one of the engineers involved in the transition and present at the meeting,
confirmed there was nothing further to add.

Nathan Bracken concluded that the ordinance was straightforward and aimed solely at
formalizing the new arrangement in compliance with state law.

Council Member Butterfield moved to approve Ordinance 2024-11-01, Appointing the
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District as Municipal Engineer for the City of
Kearns. Council Member Peterson seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous in
favor. Mayor Bush was absent from the vote.

   D. Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA) Potential Tax Increase

Rachel Anderson, District Administrator and Legal Counsel for the Unified Fire Service Area
(UFSA), along with CFO Tony Hill and Chief Wade Russel, delivered a comprehensive
presentation to the Kearns City Council regarding a proposed property tax increase for the
UFSA. The presentation covered both the rationale for the increase and its fiscal and
operational implications, emphasizing that this was the second phase of a tax increase plan
that began the previous year. She began by explaining that UFSA, a special taxing district,
funds fire services across 12 jurisdictions, including Kearns. Last year, UFSA's board had
opted to split a necessary tax increase into two phases, the second of which is now under
consideration. Additional costs this year also prompted a broader request beyond the original
phase two. These include rising service delivery costs, fire station upgrades (including seismic
retrofits), increased staffing needs, and maintaining the board-mandated 15% fund balance.




              City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
The projected tax increase totals $93 annually for a residential property valued at $525,300, or
roughly $7.77 per month. Phase two of last year’s increase alone represents $41.35 annually
($3.45 monthly).

Chief Wade Russel provided further context, citing dramatic inflation in the costs of critical
firefighting equipment and services. For example, the cost of turnout gear has risen by 86%
since 2018, while fuel and medical supplies have increased by 32% and 21%, respectively.
Personnel costs have also increased by 22% to remain competitive with neighboring agencies
and to retain trained firefighters. Chief Russel highlighted the significant rise in fleet
replacement costs. Fire engines, ambulances, and ladder trucks have all seen double-digit
percentage increases in price. A new ladder truck placed into service at Station 109 in Kearns
cost $1.7 million, a 69% increase from 2018. He also detailed UFSA’s capital investments,
including seismic upgrades at multiple stations and the construction of new facilities. The cost
per square foot for new stations has nearly doubled since 2016, underscoring the challenges
of managing infrastructure in a high-inflation environment. Chief Russel identified Kearns and
Eagle Mountain as top priorities for added resources due to increased call volumes and
service demands. Kearns’ single station, Station 109, responded to approximately 3,000 calls
in 2023 and serves a population of around 36,000, the highest among all UFSA jurisdictions.
Roughly 20% of calls in Kearns required mutual aid from other districts, highlighting the need
for a second engine company. Eagle Mountain faced similar needs, particularly due to slow
response times across its sprawling 50-square-mile area.

Tony Hill closed the presentation by outlining the financial breakdown of the proposal. The
additional staffing request (two new four-person engine crews—one for Kearns and one for
Eagle Mountain) accounts for $6.3 million of the proposed increase, or $51 per year for the
average residence. Combined with the first part of the increase, the total proposed revenue
increase is $11.4 million. He explained that without this increase, UFSA’s fund balance would
fall below its required 15% reserve. The additional revenue would ensure the district maintains
its financial stability through 2026. He also noted that the UFSA’s property tax levy is its sole
source of revenue, as it cannot collect sales or franchise taxes. Finally, he announced a public
hearing scheduled for December 10 at 6:00 p.m. at UFSA's administration offices, encouraging
council members to direct residents with concerns to attend and voice their feedback. He
confirmed that the total proposed increase represents a 23% rise in the property tax rate.

   E. Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA) Information on a Potential
      Tax Increase – Rachel Anderson, District Administrator and Richard Moon,
      Treasurer

Rachel Anderson, administrator and legal counsel for the Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement
Service Area (SLVLESA), provided a detailed presentation to the Kearns City Council
regarding a proposed property tax increase currently moving through the truth-in-taxation
process. She was joined by Rick Moon, SLVLESA’s treasurer, to explain the financial rationale
and implications. She began by noting that, unlike other service entities, SLVLESA is legally
required to receive affirmative votes from all municipalities it serves before it can proceed with
a tax increase. In contrast, other districts like the Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA) can impose
tax increases without local votes due to differences in statutory authority. SLVLESA serves as



              City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
the taxing and funding mechanism for police services provided by the Unified Police
Department (UPD). Following the July 1, 2023, separation of the Salt Lake County Sheriff’s
Office from UPD, SLVLESA has faced structural and financial changes. Cities, including
Kearns, voted unanimously to remain with UPD, necessitating renegotiation of the UPD
interlocal agreement. SLVLESA is no longer a direct party to this agreement; instead, cities
now contract directly, while SLVLESA remains responsible for collecting taxes and paying the
police service bills on behalf of its member cities. Due to the change, SLVLESA must now pay
for services from both UPD and Salt Lake County for unincorporated areas. This dual billing
has led to higher administrative and operational costs and eliminated certain economies of
scale that previously helped reduce expenses. Last year, SLVLESA proposed and passed a
7% tax increase with the goal of reaching its maximum taxing authority. However, due to
higher-than-expected property value assessments in 2024, the district did not reach that cap.
The current proposal seeks to close that gap and raise an additional $3.2 million in revenue to
help stabilize SLVLESA’s fund balance and ensure it can continue to pay for law enforcement
services.

Rick Moon explained that without this increase, SLVLESA would fall below the state-mandated
minimum 5% reserve fund balance by the end of 2025, resulting in an estimated shortfall of
over $800,000. With the increase, the district would maintain a cushion of approximately $1
million above the minimum. He also presented comparative data showing that law enforcement
budgets across Salt Lake Valley cities have increased an average of 45% over the past five
years, driven largely by inflation, personnel costs, and wage competitiveness following civil
unrest and evolving law enforcement demands. The proposed tax increase would result in an
average additional cost of $65.34 per year (or approximately $5.45 per month) for a residential
property valued at $453,000. Commercial property owners would see an increase of $118.79
annually (or about $9.90 monthly). The overall proposed increase equates to approximately
12.8%.

Ms. Anderson emphasized the financial limitations of special districts like SLVLESA, which rely
solely on property taxes for revenue and are not authorized to collect sales or franchise taxes.
She also clarified that the board opted to move forward with the increase to strengthen the
district’s financial position amid rising service costs and the added burden of paying dual law
enforcement entities. The council was reminded that the proposed increase requires a vote,
and that SLVLESA’s final approval process also involves the Salt Lake County Council. If all
member cities vote in favor, the county needs only a simple majority to approve the measure;
otherwise, a two-thirds supermajority is required.

Council Member Patrick Schaeffer asked clarifying questions regarding the percentage and
monthly impact of the increase, which were confirmed as 12.8% and $5.45/month,
respectively, for the average home value. No further questions were posed by the council at
that time.

   F. Consider approval of Resolution No. 2024-11-02, Approving a 2025 Tax Rate in
      Excess of the Certified Tax Rate by the Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area




             City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Council Member Butterfield moved to approve Resolution 2024-11-02, Approving a 2025
Tax Rate in excess of the Certified Tax Rate by the Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement
Service Area. Council Member Peterson seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous
in favor. Mayor Bush was absent from the vote.


6. Stakeholder Updates/Information
      A. Kearns Improvement District (KID) - Greg Anderson, General Manager
No updates.
      B. Kearns Library - Lee Whiting, Librarian
No updates.

      C. MyKearns Community Coalition - Kristen Dietz, Chair
No updates.
      D. Wasatch Front Waste Recycling District (WFWRD) - Renee Plant, Manager
Renee Plant provided a series of community service updates during the council meeting,
beginning with a reminder about the upcoming Christmas season. She announced that live
Christmas tree collections will begin in January and encouraged residents to utilize this service
by filling out the appropriate form online. She emphasized that only undecorated, real trees left
curbside will be accepted and advised against placing them in trash bins. She also reminded
residents that not all gift wrapping materials are recyclable. Wrapping paper that contains
plastic, metallics, or clay coatings—as well as bows and ribbons—should be disposed of in
regular garbage rather than recycling. She advised checking packaging labels to determine
recyclability. In addition, she noted that the green waste collection season would conclude on
December 13, with services resuming in March of the following year. Finally, she announced
the upcoming public hearing to review the 2025 budget and associated fee increases,
including a proposed additional charge of $6.50 per month. The hearing is scheduled for
Monday, November 18, at 6:00 p.m. She encouraged community members to attend and
participate.
      E. Unified Fire Authority (UFA) - Chief Russell
Chief Wade Russel delivered a brief update during the meeting, sharing two significant
developments regarding local fire services. First, he announced that the long-anticipated
ladder truck has officially been placed into service after a three-year wait. He proposed
coordinating a public demonstration or viewing opportunity on the same day as the Christmas
on 54th event, so that council members and community members could see the new
equipment up close. The ladder truck, described as a substantial and visually impressive
addition to the fleet, represents a major investment and enhancement in local fire response
capabilities. Second, he shared that an ambulance will be put into service at Station 107
beginning January 1. The facility, which previously housed special enforcement personnel
such as bomb technicians and arson investigators, has undergone recent upgrades including
new carpet and paint. All posted positions for staffing the ambulance were successfully filled,
which Russel noted was a positive sign of interest and morale, particularly highlighting that


              City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
multiple personnel expressed interest in working in Kearns. If the proposed tax increase
passes, he noted that by this time next year, residents should see both the new ambulance
and an additional engine in active service throughout the community.

Council Member Chrystal Butterfield inquired about coat collection efforts, to which Chief
Russel responded that he would check on the status and follow up.
       F. Kearns Community Council - Roger Snow
Roger Snow provided an update on preparations for the upcoming Christmas on 54th event.
The setup was initially scheduled to begin the morning of the meeting and was expected to
take three to four days to complete. However, due to inclement weather and safety concerns—
specifically, the inability to safely climb the 30-foot metal tree frame—the setup for that day
was canceled and rescheduled to resume the following day, continuing throughout the week.
He confirmed that the Christmas on 54th celebration will take place on Saturday, November
30, and will feature Santa Claus, as well as the distribution of gloves, hats, scarves, and candy
canes for children to help keep them warm. Snow also announced that Holiday Fest will follow
on Saturday, December 7, from 6:00 to 10:00 p.m., and will include another appearance by
Santa and candy cane giveaways. Additionally, he briefly mentioned coordinating access with
others after the meeting to allow officers easier entry as needed.

Council Member Chrystal Butterfield inquired whether the event date listed on the social media
post was accurate, and it was confirmed by multiple council members that the correct date—
Saturday, November 30—had been shared.

       G. Unified Police Department (UPD) – Chief Hughes

Chief Levi Hughes addressed the council with several important updates and expressed
appreciation for their support of the SLVLESA tax increase and the Unified Fire Authority
(UFA) funding proposals. He emphasized the quality of service provided by both public safety
entities and acknowledged the financial burdens associated with maintaining such services,
particularly on residents with fixed incomes. Chief Hughes reiterated that all budget decisions
are made with fiscal responsibility and transparency. He reflected on the consequences of the
recent separation between the Salt Lake County Sheriff’s Office and the Unified Police
Department (UPD), noting that Kearns had lost five officer positions as a result. Two officers
were reassigned to the Shared Services Investigations Bureau to maintain critical investigative
functions, while three other positions were eliminated entirely, reducing overall staffing. These
reductions led to a loss of two patrol officers per shift, bringing the city’s shift coverage down to
three officers at times, and the complete removal of a dedicated traffic enforcement officer.
Chief Hughes explained that these changes significantly impacted the department’s capacity to
provide services and that while patrol officers and community resources like Angie Oldham are
helping fill gaps, the reality is that fewer resources limit their reach. In addressing winter
parking enforcement, Chief Hughes reported that officers had recently issued 180 violation
notices on the north side of 5400 South for illegally or improperly parked vehicles. Similar
enforcement would soon begin on the south side. He explained that while his department
cannot solve Kearns' chronic on-street parking issues, they will continue to address violations
where possible. He also clarified for the council that during major snowstorms, officer



              City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
availability is often consumed by accident response, and tow trucks are similarly tied up, which
complicates the removal of obstructive vehicles despite resident complaints. On the personnel
side, Chief Hughes shared that the department recently completed a promotional test for
lieutenant and expects to fill positions soon. He also noted an encouraging increase in new
UPD applicants, including many lateral transfers from other agencies, driven by recent
organizational changes. Despite the positive recruitment trend, the precinct was currently down
seven officers—the most of any UPD area—but this figure is expected to fluctuate as staffing
needs shift throughout the department. He recognized Lieutenant Nick Nelson for his
dedication to operations and for personally filling in on graveyard shifts to support staffing.
Officer Angie Oldham was also commended for her ongoing contributions in multiple roles.
Chief Hughes highlighted Officer Carter Mann as Employee of the Month for October. Mann, a
recent academy graduate, was recognized for his handling of a firearm-related incident in
which he successfully intervened and gathered additional evidence leading to the arrest of a
repeat offender. The case involved potential psychological concerns, and efforts were being
made to connect the suspect with appropriate services. Additionally, Chief Sean Williams was
acknowledged for reaching his 20-year service milestone with UPD, most of which appears to
have been spent serving Kearns. Lastly, Chief Hughes touched on logistical details for the
upcoming Christmas on 54th event, confirming that the police convoy would depart from
Kearns High School at 4:15 p.m. as directed. A resident had requested the city consider
turning on the event lights earlier in the morning for those who leave for work before dawn,
though Council Member Tina Snow noted that the lights are on a timer and that energy costs
must be considered in city budget decisions.

7. Other Business
      A. Future agenda business

Council Member Patrick Schaeffer inquired whether a vote was necessary to forgo holding a
meeting in the upcoming month.

Council Member Tina Snow responded that while no vote was needed at the moment, a
meeting might still occur, potentially in the form of a special or closed session. She
emphasized that a decision had not yet been finalized.

Council Member Schaeffer acknowledged the possibility and offered to review related matters
during a closed session if needed. Tina Snow and Nathan Bracken briefly discussed the
purpose of such a session, with Nathan Bracken noting he could provide quick context when
appropriate. Council Member Schaeffer suggested waiting for Mayor Kelly Bush to return
before proceeding, but Council Member Snow clarified that the mayor would likely attend any
potential closed session, reinforcing that such a session may still be necessary. The
discussion concluded with an agreement to proceed with a closed session if required.

Council Member Butterfield moved to recess the Council Meeting and move to Closed
Session. Council Member Schaeffer seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous in
favor. Mayor Bush was absent from the vote.

8. Closed Session per Utah Code §52-4-205



             City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
      A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health of
      an individual
      B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation
      C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property
      D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and/or
      E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

9. Motion to Adjourn Meeting

Council Member Peterson moved to adjourn the meeting. Council Member Schaeffer
seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor. Mayor Bush was absent from
the vote.

The November 12, 2024 Kearns City Council Meeting adjourned at 7:26 p.m.

This is a true and correct copy of the November 12, 2024 City Council Meeting Minutes,
which were approved on June 9, 2025.

                                                                                           ______
                                                         Kelly Bush, Mayor
ATTEST:


Diana Baun, City Recorder




            City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
                           CITY OF KEARNS
                           CITY COUNCIL MEETING
                           MAY 12, 2025, 6:00 PM
                           KEARNS LIBRARY - 4275 W 5345 S, KEARNS, UTAH 84118



                      CITY OF KEARNS COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
                           **DRAFT MINUTES – UNAPPROVED**

COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT:                               COUNCIL MEMBERS EXCUSED:
Kelly Bush, Chair
Chrystal Butterfield
Patrick Schaeffer
Alan Peterson
Tina Snow

STAFF PRESENT:
Diana Baun, Recorder
Nathan Bracken, City Attorney
Dan Torres, Economic Development Manager
Chad Anderson, Engineering
Curtis Woodward, Senior Planner
Chief Levi Hughes, Unified Police Department
Chief Wade Russell, Unified Fire Authority

Others Present:

1. CALL TO ORDER

Mayor Bush, presiding, called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM.

2. DETERMINE QUORUM

Mayor Bush announced that a quorum was present allowing the meeting to proceed.

3. VISITING PUBLIC OFFICIALS - None

4. CITIZEN PUBLIC INPUT


Darren Nerdin provided an update on recent tree planting activities at Mountain Man Park. He
reported that six new trees were planted the previous Wednesday with the assistance of local
neighborhood children, and the event proceeded successfully. He also announced the
availability of $1,500 in tree vouchers intended for planting trees in any public park within the
city. He encouraged attendees to contact him with suggestions for appropriate locations.

                                 CITY OF KEARNS COUNCIL
                       MAYOR KELLY BUSH, DEPUTY MAYOR TINA SNOW
           COUNCIL MEMBER CHRYSTAL BUTTERFIELD, COUNCIL MEMBER ALAN PETERSON,
                           COUNCIL MEMBER PATRICK SCHAEFFER
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 2
Kearns Library
May 12, 2025

Mayor Kelly Bush noted that Linear Park has trees that may need to be replaced, and Darren
acknowledged Kearns Park as another potential location. He expressed appreciation for the
council’s support, emphasizing that such projects run more smoothly with official approval.

Council Member Al Peterson inquired about the eligibility of parking strips for tree planting, to
which Mayor Bush clarified that while parking strips are city-owned, they are maintained by
property owners.

Mr. Nerdin stated a preference for planting in fully public spaces like parks. When asked about
the types of trees planted, he listed maples and serviceberries among the species used, and
mentioned a focus on species diversity. He explained that a dozen diverse tree species had
been planted over the past year, which not only benefits the environment but also serves as a
reference for residents interested in selecting tree varieties for their own properties.

5. PRESENTATION ITEMS

    A. Recognition of Chloe Montoya with Representatives Ashlee Matthews

Meeting proceeded with a note to come back to this item when Chloe arrived.

Mayor Kelly Bush introduced and recognized Chloe Montoya, a young Kearns resident and
special guest, for her charitable efforts during the holiday season. Chloe, who is Navajo from
the Navajo Nation, created and leads a program called "Yeti's Spirit of the Season," through
which she hand-sews Christmas stockings for underserved children, particularly Native youth.
She learned to sew from her grandmother and produced 105 stockings by herself last
Christmas, filling them with hygiene products, toys, and essential supplies.

Representatives Ashlee Matthews and Anthony Loubet joined the recognition, commending
Chloe for her dedication and generosity. Representative Matthews presented Chloe with a
certificate of appreciation from the state legislature, praising her for the time, care, and effort
she devotes to helping others and for her inspiring impact on the community.

Mayor Bush, joined by the city council members, presented Chloe with a plaque from the City
of Kearns. The award acknowledged her compassionate work and the meaningful difference
she has made for children across Utah. Mayor Bush also encouraged the public to support
Chloe’s initiative, noting her presence on Instagram under the account "Yeti’s Spirit of the
Season."

Chloe addressed the audience briefly, thanking the Kearns community for the recognition and
support, and explained that her motivation was to help Native children who might not have as
much, so they could feel happiness and love during the holidays. The council concluded the
recognition with a group photo and offered their continued support to Chloe and her charitable
efforts.

6. CONSENT AGENDA




                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 3
Kearns Library
May 12, 2025

    A. Approve Council Meeting Minutes
         a. October 15, 2024
         b. April 3, 2025
         c. April 14, 2025

Council Member Tina Snow moved to approve the October 15, 2024, April 3, 2025 and
April 14, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes as published. Council Member Butterfield
seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

7. PUBLIC HEARING ITEMS

    A. Ordinance 2025-O-11, An Ordinance Adopting the City of Kearns 2025-2026 Annual
       Budget

Council Member Snow moved to open the public hearing as noted above. Council
Member Schaeffer seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

Mayor Kelly Bush presented an overview of the proposed administrative budget for the year
2026. She clarified that this figure includes several pass-through items that the city does not
retain or directly utilize. One such item is the beer tax, which is allocated directly to the Unified
Police Department (UPD) precinct to fund policing overtime and programs targeting alcohol
and drug intervention. Additionally, the budget now includes rent expenses, a new category
introduced in anticipation of a lease agreement with Granite School District for the Oquirrh Hills
Elementary building, which the city is working to acquire. Outside of these pass-through
components, the city’s core administrative budget was reduced by 7%, making it the only
municipality in the area to report a budget decrease. Mayor Bush attributed this to increased
revenue from franchise taxes, which are helping to offset the costs of provided services. She
also discussed road funding, noting that the city receives approximately $1.6 million in B and C
road funds, which are being recalculated this year based on updated road mileage data.
Further, the budget references remaining funds from the CARES Act, labeled as "CARES 2,"
representing a second fund balance totaling $2.6 million. These funds are reserved for local
projects and infrastructure improvements in Kearns. Regarding licensing and permit revenues,
she explained that these figures are currently listed as zero for 2026, as future permit income
cannot yet be projected. Mayor Bush also mentioned that there are no related expenses in
certain budget categories, particularly those related to COVID-19 response, and that the $2.6
million balance in those areas remains unchanged. She referenced services paid to the
Municipal Services District (MSD), including engineering, justice court services, and county-
provided functions such as parks and recreation, all of which are billed through Salt Lake
County. She noted that the overall cost of these services decreased due to several
departments choosing not to request budget increases. She concluded by acknowledging the
complex format of the budget presentation and invited comments or questions from council
members and the public.

Royce Gibson raised concerns regarding the projected revenue figures, stating that they
appeared significantly higher than in previous years, even when accounting for partial-year
adjustments.



                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 4
Kearns Library
May 12, 2025

Mayor Kelly Bush responded by explaining that the increase was primarily due to new revenue
sources available to the city since incorporation. She emphasized the addition of municipal
energy taxes (referred to as "MET Tax") that became effective after the city's formal
establishment. These include revenues from service providers such as Google and Dominion
Energy, which began remitting payments to the city. The mayor clarified that while previous
years reflected only partial revenues, the 2026 projections accounted for a full fiscal year under
these new tax structures.

Mr. Royce expressed further concern over the projections in specific revenue categories
appearing disproportionate to prior actuals. Mayor Bush reiterated that this was due to the
recent implementation of new taxes, specifically noting that Dominion had only just begun
sending tax payments, and the 2026 budget reflected the first full year of expected collections.

Janet Nerdin then inquired about the breakdown of wage allocations, pointing out a $225,000
line item for salaries in the upcoming year.

Mayor Bush explained that this figure encompassed compensation for the mayor, city council
members, and the city manager. She specified that the mayor’s salary was set at $55,000
annually plus benefits for a full-time, 40-hour-per-week role. The city manager’s salary was
budgeted at $180,000, though she noted this figure was set to allow flexibility for future
increases and would not necessarily reflect the actual salary paid. Council members each
received $25,000, and all elected officials were entitled to benefits. Further clarification
revealed that the overall wage figure was intentionally budgeted on the higher end to allow for
potential adjustments. Mayor Bush noted that the final decision to set the mayor's salary at
$55,000 was made following significant public input during the public hearing process, where
there was a call for increased compensation for the mayoral role. She confirmed that this
salary level had already been approved. When Mr. Gibson asked whether the listed amount
included benefits, Mayor Bush affirmed that it did, with total compensation for the mayor
including benefits estimated around $70,000.

Council Member Snow moved to close the public hearing. Council Member Butterfield
seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

Council Member Snow moved to approve Ordinance 2025-O-11, Approving the City of
Kearn’s FY2026 Budget as noted above. Council Member Butterfield seconded the
motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

8. COUNCIL BUSINESS – ACTION ITEMS

    A. City of Kearns Funding Unified Police Department Hiring of Two New Officers and
       Crime Analyst

During the city council meeting, Chief Levi Hughes reviewed Attachment A and provided an in-
depth report on the Kearns precinct's current staffing challenges and funding requests related
to the Unified Police Department (UPD). He began by highlighting the budget-driven cuts made
in the prior fiscal year, which affected the precinct’s patrol, investigations, and traffic units.



                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 5
Kearns Library
May 12, 2025

Specifically, some duties were reassigned to the Shared Services Bureau to reduce costs, and
several officer positions were eliminated to offset financial constraints imposed by SLVLESA,
the precinct's primary funding mechanism. Chief Hughes explained that the creation of a
second law enforcement agency within Salt Lake County after the Sheriff’s Office separation in
July of the previous year had led to both UPD and the Sheriff's Office competing for funds from
the same limited SLVLESA budget. Since SLVLESA has reached its taxing cap, no new
revenue could be drawn, necessitating severe cuts. As a result, Kearns lost several patrol
allocations, including one officer from the traditional day shift and one from the afternoon shift.
This reduced officer availability, especially during peak call periods from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m.,
created significant operational gaps. The overtime budget was also fully eliminated, removing
the department's ability to support community outreach events and non-mandated activities.
Further compounding these challenges, the precinct no longer had a dedicated traffic officer,
leaving Kearns without direct traffic enforcement. Investigative resources were similarly
reduced, and efforts to maintain community policing and engagement were severely
constrained. In light of these issues, Chief Hughes requested funding for three new positions:
two patrol officers and one crime analyst. SLVLESA has tentatively approved funding for one
officer position, which will be used to restore the department's community-oriented policing
detective role. To restore full patrol coverage, Chief Hughes asked the council to fund the two
additional officer positions at a combined cost of $346,680. In addition, he requested $25,000
for the initial purchase of two police vehicles and $90,698 for a full-time crime analyst, bringing
the total funding request to $487,378. Chief Hughes emphasized the critical value of the crime
analyst role, which had previously been filled by an intern and then a part-time employee,
whose funding ends July 1. The analyst has provided significant support in data mining and
investigation work, directly aiding the detective unit and contributing to recent reductions in
violent crime within Kearns. He noted that while SLVLESA would cover the cost of the third
officer and associated vehicle, the precinct still needed city support to maintain essential
services.

Mayor Kelly Bush and Council Members discussed the long-term implications, acknowledging
that the proposed funding would become a recurring annual obligation unless SLVLESA's cap
is raised through legislative action. They discussed the potential future need for a traffic officer
and confirmed that vehicles purchased under the proposed budget would remain assigned to
Kearns. The funding would come from the MET tax (a telecommunications utility tax) that was
instituted specifically to support policing services. Mayor Bush emphasized that this funding
strategy aligns with the tax’s intended use and avoids placing additional burdens on taxpayers.
After discussion and clarification of the MET tax revenue outlook, Council Member Patrick
Schaeffer made a motion to approve the $487,378 funding request to support the UPD
precinct staffing and operational needs in Kearns.

Council Member Schaeffer moved to approve the funding of UPD officers and staff as
noted above from the City of Kearns’ MET Tax. Council Member Snow seconded the
motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

    B. Ordinance 2025-O-08, Consideration of an Ordinance Adopting Kearns Engineering
       Standard Drawings and Specifications




                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 6
Kearns Library
May 12, 2025

Chad Anderson presented a proposal to formally adopt engineering standards specific to
Kearns. This initiative follows the passage of House Bill 368 by the Utah State Legislature,
which mandates that all municipalities formally adopt engineering and inspection standards.
While the city already follows these standards for its capital improvement projects, formal
adoption is now required to enforce compliance among developers, utility companies, and
other entities performing work on public infrastructure, particularly when cutting into roadways.
He recommended the adoption of established industry standards, including those from the
American Public Works Association (APWA), AASHTO’s "Green Book" (Policy on Geometric
Design of Highways and Streets), and the Utah Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
(MUTCD). These documents govern details such as signage, road geometry, and construction
specifications like curb and gutter design. The proposed standards had already been reviewed
and approved by the Planning Commission on May 5, with a minor modification. Anderson
detailed this change, which involved adjustments to Standard Plan 255, the specifications for
“T patches” required when utility providers cut into streets. Originally, the standard required a
two-foot patch on each side of the trench and an additional four-foot mill and overlay area
beyond that. Utility districts, including White City Water and Kearns Improvement District (KID),
objected to the impracticality and expense of requiring milling equipment for smaller cuts. In
response, the standards were modified to allow exceptions under certain conditions: if a capital
improvement project is planned in the next two years, if the pavement is less than three years
old, or if the trench length exceeds 300 feet and the pavement is between three to seven years
old. These exceptions were intended to reduce unnecessary costs for utility districts that
ultimately affect ratepayers.

Mayor Kelly Bush emphasized the importance of accommodating utility districts like KID, which
directly serve the Kearns community, as added costs would ultimately be passed on to
residents.

Mr. Anderson confirmed that the modified language was developed in consultation with KID
and that it reflects the recommendations of both KID and the Planning Commission. He further
noted that the current Kearns code is more stringent in some respects, requiring mill and
overlay to the center of the road for pavement under three years old, but stated that this could
be revised separately in the future. He concluded by affirming that over 90% of Utah
municipalities have adopted APWA standards in some form and recommended adoption of the
proposed standards with the discussed modifications.

Council Member Snow moved to approve Ordinance 2025-O-08, Approving and
adopting engineering standards for the City of Kearns. Council Member Butterfield
seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

**Meeting was paused to honor Chloe Montoya as noted a the beginning of the agenda**

    C. Ordinance 2025-O-09, Consideration of a Resolution Amending Kearn’s Land Use Fee
       Schedule

**Topic delayed for discussion during the workshop later in the agenda**




                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 7
Kearns Library
May 12, 2025

    D. Ordinance 2025-O-10, Consideration of an Ordinance Amending Title 19 of the Kearns
       Municipal Code to Clarify When Infrastructure and Public Improvements Must be
       Installed by a Developer Subject to the Limitations on Exactions in Utah Code.

    Curtis Woodward presented an ordinance aimed at restoring a key provision in the zoning
    code related to the requirement for public improvements—such as curb, gutter, and
    sidewalk—when a property is developed along roads that do not already meet current
    infrastructure standards. He explained that this triggering mechanism had been
    inadvertently removed during a 2023 update to the Kearns code, and the proposed
    ordinance would reinstate it. Additionally, the ordinance includes language to align the city's
    zoning requirements with a more recent state law. This statute mandates that any
    development exaction—such as requiring a developer to install or upgrade public
    infrastructure—must demonstrate both an “essential link” to the proposed development and
    be proportional to the impact that development will have on public facilities. To illustrate the
    necessity and purpose of this provision, he referenced a past case in Kearns involving a
    Walgreens development. In that instance, the county had initially demanded additional land
    from Walgreens to widen the road and adjust sidewalk placement, citing UDOT’s commuter
    traffic needs. However, Walgreens successfully challenged the request, showing that its
    development would generate fewer vehicle trips than the site’s previous uses, and thus did
    not warrant the additional exaction. The county ultimately agreed, recognizing that they
    could not compel a developer to provide improvements not directly tied to the
    development’s impact. The ordinance now seeks to ensure that future requirements for
    infrastructure improvements are legally sound and consistent with state law. Mr. Woodward
    emphasized that developments introducing substantial new traffic, such as transforming a
    vacant lot into a commercial site, would clearly meet the threshold for requiring
    improvements. He concluded by noting that the Planning Commission had reviewed the
    ordinance the previous week and had recommended its approval. He requested that the
    council adopt the ordinance accordingly.

    Council Member Snow moved to approve Ordinance 2025-O-10, Amending Title 19 as
    stated above. Council Member Schaeffer seconded the motion; vote was 5-0,
    unanimous in favor.

9. WORKSHOP

    A. Discussion Regarding Adoption of the 2025-2026 Fee Schedule
Nathan Bracken, city attorney, explained that although the fee schedule does not need to be
adopted until July 1, staff wanted to present it early to align it with the budget and ensure
compliance with recent legislative changes. This year’s approach includes treating land use
fees—such as building permits and planning and zoning charges—as part of a land use
ordinance, which was reviewed and recommended for approval by the Planning Commission.
One amendment from the Commission was to remove mountainous area fees, originally
intended for communities like Emigration Canyon and Brighton, as they do not apply to
Kearns. He recommended that the city council adopt the entire fee schedule as an ordinance
rather than a resolution, clarifying that this change is intended to ensure procedural
compliance. He also noted that this draft includes minimal changes, primarily inflation



                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 8
Kearns Library
May 12, 2025

adjustments to maintain revenue neutrality, as determined by previous studies conducted by
the Municipal Services District (MSD). Two additional changes were discussed. First, the
engineering fee structure is being revised in light of MSD's internalization of engineering
services. Second, he proposed including a new fee framework for fiber optic franchisees. The
proposal would require companies to pay a deposit to cover the cost of a third-party contractor
hired by the city to oversee construction and installation work, ensuring accountability and
minimizing disruption. The fee would be based on the amount of infrastructure affected, and
unused portions of the deposit would be refunded, while any excess costs would require
additional payment before work could continue.

Mayor Bush confirmed the intention to use an ordinance for final adoption and encouraged
council members to review the draft and share feedback with staff before the next meeting. No
concerns or questions were raised by council members at that time.

10. Stakeholder Updates/Information

    A. Kearns Improvement District (KID) - Greg Anderson, General Manager

Cheryle Hatch from the Kearns Improvement District (KID) provided updates in place of
General Manager Greg Anderson. Hatch reported on the ongoing water line replacement
project, which is being conducted in phases, with night work scheduled at intersections to
minimize traffic disruption. She noted that the project is approximately 30% complete and that
another brief intersection closure will be required to connect the new lines. She also shared
information about the district’s annual water conservation art contest. Now in its third year, the
contest had winners across multiple age categories, including adults, high school, junior high,
and elementary school students. She named several winners, including Jamie Chandler (adult
category), Kate McCracken (high school), and Everett Rodriguez (junior high), noting that ties
occurred in the elementary division. Hatch offered to share physical copies of the winning
artwork and mentioned the potential involvement of the winners in the local parade once plans
are finalized.

    B. Kearns Library - Lee Whiting, Librarian

Lee Whiting, representing the local library, provided updates on two key community support
services available at the library. He announced the return of Take Care Utah, a nonprofit
organization affiliated with the Utah Health Policy Project, which specializes in helping
individuals apply for health insurance programs such as Medicaid, CHIP, the Affordable Care
Act (ACA), and Medicare. Take Care Utah staff will be present at the library on the third
Monday of each month from 2:00 to 5:00 p.m. through the end of the year. Their services
include counseling and application assistance in English, Spanish, and other languages, and
are also offered at the Granite and Tyler library branches. He highlighted the importance of this
service, particularly given that the Utah CHIP program had recently renewed its enrollment
cycle at the start of May, making it an ideal time to help uninsured children enroll in health
coverage. He encouraged anyone who knows individuals who have lost insurance or may be
eligible for assistance to refer them to this resource. He also reminded the council and
attendees about South Valley Services, a long-standing partner organization that provides



                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 9
Kearns Library
May 12, 2025

support for low-income, at-risk, and unhoused individuals, especially those affected by
domestic or sexual violence. South Valley Services holds sessions at the library every
Thursday from 1:00 to 5:00 p.m. in a private meeting space. Appointments are required and
must be scheduled through the organization. He concluded with a lighthearted comment
regarding a previously intended request for community-oriented policing (C.O.P.) funding to
support library storytime events. Due to budget cuts in that area, the funding was no longer
available. However, he noted that Chief Russell had offered to step in and provide support for
those events regardless, showing continued collaboration between the police department and
the library.

    C. Wasatch Front Waste Recycling District (WFWRD) - Renee Plant, Manager

No updates

    D. Unified Fire Authority (UFA) - Chief Russell

Chief Wade Russel addressed the council with a few key updates and informational items. He
began by noting that there was an active house fire on Highway Track at the time of the
meeting, acknowledging the frequency of incidents in that area and the community's familiarity
with such events. He then provided clarification on recreational fires, an issue that has
generated numerous complaints both through the internal fire department website and 911
dispatch. Chief Russel explained that recreational fires are legal under certain conditions: they
must not exceed three feet in diameter and two feet in height, must be fully contained, and
require a water source to be present. He provided council members with a printed reference
sheet outlining these parameters. He emphasized that while the fire department will respond to
any call, if the fire meets these legal requirements, it will not be extinguished. He also noted
that many complaints stem from disputes between neighbors rather than actual fire safety
concerns. Chief Russel clarified that there is no residential open burning permitted in Salt Lake
County, meaning that residents cannot legally burn leaves, tree waste, or similar materials.
Agricultural burning is also not applicable within Kearns due to the lack of qualifying land
features such as ditch banks. Next, Chief Russel distributed a fireworks restriction map for
2025, which includes a QR code allowing residents to view specific restrictions by
neighborhood. He noted there have been no changes to the fireworks restriction zones from
the previous year. Legal firework discharge dates remain July 2–5 and July 22–25, with
extended hours until midnight on July 4 and 24. Sales may begin as early as June 24. The QR
code will also be made available on the city’s website for broader access.

Mayor Kelly Bush then congratulated Chief Russel on his recent promotion to second in
command within the department. The council acknowledged the achievement, and Chief
Russel confirmed he would continue to serve as the department's liaison to Kearns,
humorously noting that it was partly out of respect for the mayor. The update concluded with
mutual appreciation and no further questions from the council.

    E. Unified Police Department (UPD) - Chief Hughes




                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 10
Kearns Library
May 12, 2025

Chief Levi Hughes delivered his monthly report to the city council, beginning with a lighthearted
exchange and congratulations to Chief Wade Russel on his recent promotion. He then shifted
to current law enforcement matters, starting with a recap of a recent shooting incident in
Kearns. The victim was reported to be in stable condition, and the investigation was
progressing quickly toward resolution. Chief Hughes used the opportunity to underscore the
ongoing importance of maintaining a dedicated gang detective in the precinct—a resource
Kearns retained even after recent structural changes in county law enforcement. He stressed
that despite fluctuations in visible activity, gang presence remains a constant concern that
requires continuous attention and personnel. Chief Hughes then discussed a significant
development regarding the precinct’s facility. Due to the impending expiration of the current
lease on June 30 and uncertainty surrounding the city’s planned acquisition of a new facility
(the former school building), he had to notify the current landlord that the department would be
vacating the premises. This decision was made based on signals from ongoing lease
negotiations with the city. As a result, the property owner began exploring other options for
selling or leasing the space, creating a situation in which the precinct has no confirmed
location after June 30. Chief Hughes assured the council he remained hopeful that the
transition would resolve favorably, but acknowledged the logistical urgency of relocating the
precinct’s operations. On a more positive note, Chief Hughes reported that a $200,000 request
for the precinct's relocation had been approved by SLVLESA and would be fully funded from
the precinct’s existing fund balance. He credited the precinct’s strong budget management
practices and emphasized their commitment to fiscal responsibility, particularly in consideration
of the financial constraints faced by many Kearns residents. He also reviewed the latest
precinct statistics (Attachment B). Vandalism and graffiti incidents (categorized as damaged
property) showed a continued downward trend. Larceny and theft cases decreased
significantly from 29 to 9 compared to the same month the previous year, and the number of
runaway reports dropped to just two. However, he noted a slight uptick in stolen vehicles—
rising to 12—and acknowledged the need to monitor and respond to that increase. He also
pointed out that citations issued had fallen by half compared to the previous year (110 down to
55), which he attributed to the absence of a dedicated traffic enforcement officer. Chief Hughes
concluded his remarks by reaffirming the need to restore a traffic unit to address community
concerns and boost enforcement activity. He invited questions from the council, and the
meeting closed with a lighthearted exchange and no further inquiries.

    F. Kearns Community Council – Aaron Nickle

Aaron didn’t have an update other than to note that they are fully staffed.

11. Other Business

    A. Future Agenda Business

Council Member Snow moved to recess the City Council Meeting and moved to Closed
Session for the reasons indicated below. Council Member Butterfield seconded the
motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

12. Closed Session if Needed as Allowed Pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-205



                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Kearns City Council Meeting                                                                       Page 11
Kearns Library
May 12, 2025

    A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health of an
       individual
    B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation
    C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property
    D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and/or
    E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

13. Adjourn

Council Member Snow moved to adjourn the May 12, 2025 City Council Meeting. Council
Member Butterfield seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.


The May 12, 2025 meeting adjourned at 7:53 PM


This is a true and correct copy of the May 12, 2025 Town Council Meeting Minutes,
which were approved on June 9, 2025.


Attest:

                                                                Kelly Bush, Mayor
Diana Baun, City Recorder




                   City of Kearns • 4956 W 6200 S, Suite #527 • Kearns, UT 84118 • 801-654-2123
Fee Schedule
for the City of Kearns
adopted June 9, 2025

effective date July 1, 2025




                       1
Contents
Address Fees .......................................................................................................................................................................... 3
Business License Fees ................................................................................, ............................................................................ 3
   General Business Licenses ................................................................................................................................................. 3
   Short-term Rental Licenses .................................................................................................................................................. 4
   Alcohol-Related Licenses ............................................,.........,....................,..........................,........, .........................................4
   Sexually-oriented Business Licenses ...................................................................................................................................4
Building Permit Fees ................................................................................................................................................................4
   Construction Valuation Tables ..............................................................................................................................................6
   Supplemental Construction Valuation Tables .......................................................................................................................8
   Building and Inspection Fee Calculation ...............................................................................................................................8
Plan Check Fees ......................................................................................................................................................................9
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plans (SWPPP)....................................................................................................................9
   SWPPP Fees........................................................................................................, ................................................................... 9
   SWPPP Control Measures.................................................................................................................................................... 9
   SWPPP Illicit Discharge Fines ............................................................................................................................................ 10
Land Use Fees ....................................................................................................................................................................... 10
   Conditional Use Permits ..................................................................................................................................................... 10
   Permitted Uses ................................................................................................................................................................... 10
   Subdivision Permits ............................................................................................................................................................ 11
   Ordinance Adjustments ....................................................................................................................................................... 11
   Other Land Use Applications .............................................................................................................................................. 12
Code Enforcement Fees......................................................................................................................................................... 12
Bond Administration Fees....................................................................................................................................................... 14
Miscellaneous Service Fees................................................................................................................................................... 14
Engineering Fees ................................................................................................................................................................... 14
Glossary of Terms .........................................................,..............,.............................,........................,........................, .............. 17




The City of Kearns contracts with the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District ("MSD") to provide planning and
zoning, building permit, business license, and code enforcement services. The MSD provides these services on behalf of
and under the direction of the City of Kearns.

NOTE: Fees and Fines will be applied as approved and set forth in this schedule. The Director of Engineering, Chief Building
Official or Director of Planning and Development may on occasion adjust fees/fines in unique circumstances up to $1,500
per application. The MSD's General Manager may do the same up to $5,000. These adjustments must be documented and
reported on if requested. Adjustments over $5,000 require approval of the governing body of the jurisdiction to which the
application pertains.



                                                                                           2
Address Fees

I
                    Fee Type                                                Description                                            Amount
                                                                                                                            $100.00 base fee
                                                                                                                          plus $40.00 per lot a ;
                                                   Provide address information on recorded subdivision plat
                                                   and/or individual parcel/building addresses. Ensure                    for multi-family units,
     Assignment of Address                         assignments meet addressing standards and are suitable                  $40.00 for the first 8
                                                   for mail delivery, public safety, utility services and general           units in addition to
                                                   delivery of services.                                                   base fee and $5 per
                                                                                                                          unit for each unit over
                                                                                                                                   8 units
                                                   Confirm that petition includes the required signatures.
                                                   Document street name change and address change for
                                                   each property along street by filing an affidavit with the                  $250.00 base fee
     Street Name Change
                                                   Salt Lake County Recorder's Office. Notify the property                    plus $50.00 per lot
                                                   owner, Public Safety dispatch and the Salt Lake County
                                                   Treasurer of the address/street name change.
       a   The per lot fee does not apply to Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU).



Business License Fees
General Business Licenses


                    Fee Type                   I                            Description                                            Amount
     General Business License -                    For commercial business locations. Includes inspections
                                                                                                                                   $150.00
     Commercial Business                           and verification of zoning compliance.
     General Business License -                    For home-based businesses without on-site visitors and
                                                                                                                                    No Fee
     Home-Based Business (simple)                  customers.
                                                   For home-based businesses with on-site visitors and
     General Business License -
                                                   customers. Includes inspections and verification of zoning                      $150.00
     Home-Based Business
                                                   compliance.
     Per-employee Fee                              Includes verification of EIN documentation.                                      $6.00
                                                   For business operations of up to_      days per year..
     Seasonal Business License                     Includes inspections and verification of zoning                                 $120.00
                                                   compliance.
     Solicitor ID                                  Includes photograph of applicant and issuance of ID card.                        $65.00
     Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)
                                                                                                                                    $50.00
     License
                                                   Issued for operating a business without a license or with
     Administrative Citation                                                                                                       $300.00
                                                   an expired license.
Notes regarding business license fees:

1.     Withdrawn applications are subject to a charge of 25% of the fee amount.

2.     Licenses must be renewed prior to the expiration date.
            o   Licenses renewed within 30 days of expiring will not be charged a penalty.
            o   Licenses renewed 31-60 days of expiring will be charged a penalty of 25% of the general license fee.
            o   Licenses renewed more than 60 days of expiring will be charged a penalty of 100% of the general license fee




                                                                           3
Short-term Rental Licenses


To the extent allowed under Municipal Code the following applies for the City of Kearns:

                  Fee Type                                                  Description                        Amount
    Umbrella Short-term Rental                 Primary license for short-term rental management
                                                                                                               $500.00
    License Fee - main license                 companies with multiple rental units/locations.
    Umbrella Short-term Rental                 Includes inspections and verification of zoning
                                                                                                                $50.00
    License Fee - per unit                     compliance.
                                               Short-term rental license for homeowners renting their
    Short-term Rental License Fee -
                                               primary residence. Includes verification of zoning              $500.00
    homeowner
                                               compliance.


Alcohol-Related Licenses

I


'                Fee Type                                                   Description                        Amount
    Off-Premise Beer Retailer                                                                                   $250.00
    Recreational On-Premise Beer
                                                                                                                $350.00
    Retailer
    Restaurant Liquor                                                                                           $500.00
    Limited Restaurant Liquor                                                                                   $500.00
    Beer-Only Restaurant                                                                                        $350.00
    On-Premise Beer Tavern                                                                                      $350.00
    Resort                                                                                                      $500.00
    Club Liquor                                                                                                 $600.00
    Banquet & Catering                                                                                          $500.00
    Single Event                                                                                                $150.00
    Wholesale Beer                                                                                              $300.00
    Manufacturing                                                                                               $350.00
Alcohol-related business license applications are referred to local communities for consent and approval.




Sexually-oriented Business Licenses


                  Fee Type                                                  Description                         Amount
    Sexually Oriented Business -               Includes inspections and verification of zoning
                                                                                                                $500.00
    Outcall Services                           compliance.
    Sexually Oriented Business -               Includes inspections and verification of zoning
                                                                                                                $300.00
    excluding Outcall Services                 compliance.

Building Permit Fees

Building permits include necessary inspections. If additional inspections are required, applicants will be charged the
reinspection fee for each additional visit. Most building permits will require a plan check fee in addition to the building
permit fee. Plan check fees are listed separately.

Building permits and mechanical, plumbing & electrical permits will be charged a state surcharge equal to 1% of the
permit fee.
                                                                           4
!
                 Fee Type                                        Description                               Amount
     Building Permit - Minimum Fee                                                                         $70.00
     Building Permit - new
                                         See below for valuation schedules                                 Varies a
     construction
     Building Permit - addition or
                                         See below for valuation schedules                                 Varies a
     remodel
     Mobile Home Setup Permit                                                                              $200.00
                                         Includes on-site inspection of one system. Additional
     Mechanical, Plumbing &
                                         appliances and fixtures after the first will be charged the       $70.00
     Electrical Permit
                                         per-unit fee listed below.
     Fee per additional appliance or     Applies to each additional appliance, fixture, etc.
                                                                                                           $20.00
     fixture                             inspected by inspector already on site.
     Grading Permit                                                                                        Varies b
     Retaining Wall Permit                                                                                 Varies c
     Demolition Permit                                                                                     Varies d
     Window & Door Replacement -
                                         Applies when no other work is being done.                         $70.00
     residential
     Window & Door Replacement -
                                         Applies when no other work is being done.                         Varies d
     commercial
    Reroofing Permit Fees
     Reroofing - residential roof with
                                         Includes inspection of sheathing or decking.                      $125.00
     sheathing
     Reroofing - residential roof
                                         Shingles only; no decking or sheathing.                            $75.00
     without sheathing
     Reroofing - small commercial        Commercial roof project under $10,000 valuation.                  $150.00
                                         Commercial roof project between $10,000 and $49,999
     Reroofing - medium commercial                                                                         $175.00
                                         valuation.
     Reroofing - large commercial        Commercial roof project $50,000 valuation or higher.              $250.00
    Solar Power System Permit Fees
     Residential/Small Commercial        Applies to residential and commercial installations up to
                                                                                                           $100.00
     Solar Permit - base fee             20 kW. Does not include fees for required plan check.
     Residential/Small Commercial        Additional fee based on size of installation. Does not
                                                                                                        $30.00 per kW
     Solar Permit - fee per kW           include fees for required plan check.
     Commercial Solar over 20 kW         Applies to larger commercial installations over 20 kW              Varies
                                         Assumes that inspector is already on site for inspection of
     Battery Storage System                                                                            $2.00 per battery
                                         installation.
    ! Additional Inspection Fees
     Reinspection                                                                                           $50.00
                                         Inspections after a fire or disaster to determine extent of
     Pre-inspection                                                                                         $70.00
                                         damage and permits needed for repairs.
     Multi-unit Inspection                                                                                 $100.00




                                                                  5
Administrative Fees                                                                                                             Amount
                                            Applies when permit is cancelled before work commences                        25% of permit fee
Cancellation of building permit                                                                                           ($200 maximum)
                                            Applies when permit has been expired for more than 30
Reinstatement Fee - general                                                                                               50% of permit fee
                                            business days:
Reinstatement Fee - final                   Applies when only final inspection is required, and permit                    50% of permit fee
inspection                                  has been expired for more than 30 business days.                              ($200 maximum)
                                            Base fee equal to 200% of building permit fee, plus daily
                                                                                                                         200% of permit fee,
                                            fees commencing 10 business days after notice of
Building or grading without a                                                                                           plus 1% of permit fee
                                            violation. Example, if the permit fee would have been
permit                                                                                                                  per day ($50 max per
                                            $100, then building or grading without a permit would
                                                                                                                                 day)
                                            result in a $200 permit fee.
  a   Permit fees for new construction, additions and remodels are based on calculated square footage and the current ICC valuation tables (see
      below). When square footage determinations not practical or possible, permit fees will be based on applicant's declared valuation as
      reasonably determined by Director or Designee.
  b   Permit fees for grading are based on the number of cubic yards of earth cut or filled.
  c   Permit fees for retaining walls are based on the size of the project in lineal feet.
  d   Permit fees for demolition and window/door replacement are based on declared valuation.
  e   Permit fees for large solar installations are based on applicant's declared valuation as reasonably determined by Director or designee.




                                                                        6
Construction Valuation Tables

The valuations below are used to determine construction valuations for building permit fee calculations. The valuations
will be updated automatically as new standards are published by ICC, which is usually twice per year.
                                              Square Foot Construction Costs




Supplemental Construction Valuation Tables

The supplemental valuations below may be updated annually as part of the annual fee approval process.

                                                            7
            Construction Type                               Unit                              Valuation
                                                                                       As provided in the ICC
 Basements - Unfinished                                Square Foot                     valuation table footnote
                                                                                                above
 Basements - Finished                                  Square Foot                                 $41.00
 Decks (any type)                                      Square Foot                                 $22.00
 Carport/Covered Patio                                 Square Foot                                 $22.00
 Roof Conversions                                      Square Foot                                 $22.00
 Fence (any type)                                       Lineal Foot                                $20.00
 Retaining Wall (any type)                              Lineal Foot                                $59.00
 Exterior Finish                                       Square Foot                                 $5.00
 Fire Sprinklers                                       Square Foot                                 $6.00
 Remodel/Alteration                                    Square Foot                                 $39.00
 Basement Tl                                           Square Foot                                 $28.00
 Grading                                          Cubic Yard Cut and Fill                      Equation
                                                                                       35% of the valuation for
 Tenant Improvements                                    Calculated
                                                                                         new construction
                                                                                       80% of the valuation for
 Shell Only                                             Calculated
                                                                                         new construction



Building and Inspection Fee Calculation

Building permit fees based on valuation are calculated based on the calculations below.

      Construction Valuation                                          Fee
  Less than and including $2,000     $70.00
                                     $76.50 for the first $2,000
                                     plus $16.50 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof,
         $2,001 to $25,000
                                     to and including $25,000. Example: Valuation of $3,400
                                     would be $76.50 plus $33.00 ($16.50 x 2), or $109.50
                                     $456.00 for the first $25,000
        $25,001 to $50,000           plus $12.00 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof,
                                     to and including $50,000.
                                     $765.00 for the first $50,000
        $50,001 to $100,000          plus $8.50 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof,
                                     to and including $100,000.
                                     $1,181.00 for the first $100,000
       $100,001 to $500,000          plus $6.50 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof,
                                     to and including $500,000.
                                     $3,781.00 for the first $500,000
      $500,001 to $1,000,000         plus $5.50 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof,
                                     to and including $1,000,000.
                                     $6,531.00 for the first $1,000,000
           Over $1,000,001
                                     plus $4.50 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof..




                                                            8
Plan Check Fees

Plan checks for building permits include up to 4 reviews. Additional reviews will be charged the hourly fee listed below.

              Fee Type                                         Description                                   Amount
 Plan Check Fee - residential                                                                            40% of building
 construction                                                                                              permit fee
 Plan Check Fee - commercial                                                                             65% of building
 construction                                                                                              permit fee
 Plan Check Fee - smaller
                                                                                                             $100.00
 projects



 Land Use Review Fee                                                                                         $110.00
 Card File Plan Check Fee -
                                       Includes accessory structures.                                        $175.00
 single-family or duplex
 Card File Plan Check Fee -
                                                                                                             $350.00
 multi-family residential
 Plan Check Fee - hourly                                                                                 $80.00 per hour

Stormwater Review & Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plans (SWPPP)


Stormwater Review & I n s p e c t i o n Fees

             Fee Type                                             Description                                    Amount
  Stormwater Review – base fee           Base fee per project.                                                   $200.00
  Stormwater Review – per-               Additional fee per acre after the first acre; applies when
                                                                                                                  $30.00
  acre fee                               SWPPP required.
                                        Permit is required for any development within a
  Floodplain Development Permit                                                                                   $75.00
                                        mapped floodplain as required by FEMA.
SWPPP Oversite Inspection –            Sites with an NOI are inspected on a monthly basis until                   $60.00
per month                              project is complete and applicant applies for an NOT

SWPPP Control Measures

All penalties and fines may be doubled for a second or third offense. Violations may be referred to the jurisdiction's legal
counsel for further action.

            Penalty Type                                       Description                                   Amount
 Primary Boundary Control
                                       Per day per violation.occurence and then for each                $1,000.00500.00
 ViolationWorking without an
 approved stormwater permit            business day beginning the day after the day on which
                                       fine was issued
 Secondary Boundary Control            Per day per violation. Per occurrence and then for each
                                       business day beginning the day after the day on which               $530000.00
 ViolationTracking mud on road
                                       fine was issued


 Exit Control ViolationFailure to      Per day per violation. Per occurrence and then for each             $25500.00
 clean up or report spills             business day beginning the day after the day on which
                                       fine was issued


                                                              9
 Waste Control Violationfailure to Per day per violation. Per occurrence and then for each                  $1500.00
 conduct stormwater inspections business day beginning the day after the day on which
                                   fine was issued

 Material Storage Control              Per day per violation. Per site, per occurrence and then
                                       for each business day beginning the day after the day                 $250.00
 Violationfailure to use general
 best management practices as          on which fine was issued
 determined by the authority

 Primary Boundary Control              Per day per violation.occurence and then for each                $1,000.00500.00
 ViolationWorking without an           business day beginning the day after the day on which
 approved stormwater permit            fine was issued
 Secondary Boundary Control            Per day per violation. Per occurrence and then for each             $530000.00
 ViolationTracking mud on road         business day beginning the day after the day on which
                                       fine was issued



SWPPP Illicit Discharge Fines

The table below lists illicit discharges common to construction and maintenance activities. It is a violation to discharge
pollutants. The presence of BMPs does not excuse an illicit discharge.

               Penalty Type                                     Description                                  Amount
 Sediment                              Per day per violation.                                               $1,000.00
 Cementitious Material                 Per day per violation.                                                $500.00
 Paints and Solvents                   Per day per violation.                                                $500.00
 Solid Waste                           Per day per violation.                                                $500.00
 Sanitary Waste                        Per day per violation.                                               $2,000.00
 Fuels                                 Per day per violation.                                               $1,000.00
 Fertilizers                           Per day per violation.                                                $500.00
 Organics                              Per day per violation.                                                $250.00
 Cleansers                             Per day per violation.                                                $500.00
 Hazardous materials                   Any illicit discharge may be assigned to this category
                                                                                                            $5,000.00
                                       depending on the impact. Per day per violation.




                                                                10
Land Use Fees


Permitted and Conditional Uses
 Simple Conditional Use Permit   Home daycare/pre-school, mobile store, condominium         $175.00
                                 conversion, similar uses requiring limited staff review.
                                 Commercial uses, residential uses, or signs needing
                                 conditional use approval. Includes agency review,
 Other Conditional Use Permits   technical review and Planning Commission meeting.          $1,640.00




                                                         11
Subdivision and Land Development Permits

             Fee Type                                       Description                               Amount
 Minor Subdivision (<5 lots)        Includes agency review meeting and technical review.              $990.00
 Major Subdivision (Single          Includes agency review meeting, technical review and
                                                                                                     $1,640.00
 Phase)                             Planning Commission meeting.
 Major Subdivision with Multiple
                                    Includes agency review meeting, technical review and
 Phases (Includes Preliminary                                                                        $1,640.00
                                    Planning Commission Meeting
 Plat and First Phase Final Plat)
 Final Plat Approval for Phases
                                    Includes Technical Review                                         $535.00
 Two and Beyond
 Planned Unit Development
                                    Includes agency review meeting, technical review and
 (Preliminary approval and First                                                                     $1,640.00
                                    Planning Commission meeting.
 Phase Final Approval/Plat)
 Final Planned Unit Development
 Approval for Phases Two and        Includes Technical Review                                         $535.00
 Beyond
 Subdivision amendments             Includes agency review meeting and technical review. In
                                    some cases, a Planning Commission and/or Mayors
                                                                                                      $990.00
                                    meeting is required. These fees will be added as needed
                                    based on the applicable fees in this fee schedule.
Simple Boundary Adjustment          Includes limited staff review.                                    $110.00
 Full Boundary Adjustments          Includes limited staff review. Applicable when amended            $175.00
                                    plat not necessary.
 Extension of Time                  Includes review by Director.                                      $275.00




Ordinance Adjustments

             Fee Type                                       Description                               Amount
 Text Change                        Includes Planning Commission meeting and Council
                                                                                                      $765.00
                                    meeting.
 Zoning Map Change - minor          Changes less than 3 acres. Includes limited staff review,
                                                                                                      $940.00
                                    Planning Commission meeting and Council meeting.
 Zoning Map Change - small          Changes 3 up to 10 acres. Includes agency review
                                    meeting, staff review, Planning Commission meeting and           $1,755.00
                                    Council meeting.
 Zoning Map Change - medium         Changes over 10 up to 50 acres. Includes agency review
                                                                                                     $1,755.00
                                    meeting, staff review, Planning Commission meeting,
                                                                                                 plus $200 per acre
                                    Council meeting, and General Plan fees.
 Zoning Map Change - large          Changes over 50 up to 100 acres. Includes agency
                                                                                                     $1,755.00
                                    review meeting, staff review, Planning Commission
                                                                                                 plus $300 per acre
                                    meeting, Council meeting, and General Plan fees.
 Zoning Map Change - Major          Changes over 100 acres.                                      To be determined by
                                                                                                agreement between
                                                                                                agency and applicant
                                                                                                prior to acceptance of
                                                                                                the application.
                                                            12
Other Land Use Applications

               Fee Type                                             Description                                                     Amount
                                              Needed for appeal of decisions, variances,
 Land Use Hearing Officer                     nonconforming use expansions, takings relief petition,                              $1,000.00 a
                                              etc.
 Land Use Hearing Officer                     Double fee if construction has started.                                              $2,000.00
 Administrative Determination                 Requires Director review.                                                             $275.00
 Special Exception to have Use
                                              Planning Commission meeting.                                                          $650.00
 violation declared legal
                                              Base fee plus costs for research time.                                          $25.00 base fee
 Zoning Verification Letter
                                                                                                                            plus $25.00 per hour
                                              Includes limited staff review, Planning Commission
 General Plan Amendment                                                                                                            $2,440.00
                                              meeting, Council meeting, and General Plan fees.
 Agency Review Meeting at
                                              Agency Review meeting that includes outside agencies.                                 $455.00
 applicants' request
 Other applications requiring
                                              Up to 4 total review sessions. Additional charge if 4 total
 preliminary and/or technical                                                                                                       $535.00
                                              sessions exceeded for any application type.
 review.
 Other applications requiring
                                              Planning Commission meeting.                                                          $650.00
 Planning Commission meeting
 Other applications requiring
                                              Council or Mayor's meeting.                                                           $115.00
 Council or Mayor's meeting

   a For appeals, if the Land Use Hearing Officer finds in favor of the appellant then the fee shall be refunded less a $100.00 administration fee.




Code Enforcement Fees



              Fee Type                                                    Description                                              Amount
Administrative Citation                      All minor violations unless specified otherwise.                               $100.00 per violation
Appeal Fee                                   As provided for in 12.04.530 of Kearns code.                                    $375.00 per appeal
                                                                                                                                  request
                                              All violations of the code other than zoning violations and
Civil Penalties
                                              as otherwise prescribed in the code.
                                                                                                                            $100.00 per violation
                                              Violation per day for first 30 days.
                                                                                                                                  per day
                                                                                                                            $150.00 per violation
                                              Violation per day for days 31-60.
                                                                                                                                  per day
                                                                                                                            $200.00 per violation
                                              Violation per day over 60 days.
                                                                                                                                  per day
                                              Administrative fee plus costs billed from Public Works or                      $100.00 plus actual
Clean-up Fees
                                              other contracted firm.                                                               costs
                                              Violations under section 11.20.070, 11.20.080, 11.20.090                       $75.00 per violation
Parking Violation – minor
                                              or 11.20.140

                                                                          13
  Short-Term Rental Violations                                                                                    Amount

  Operating short-term rental                                                                            $650.00 per infraction
  without a business license                                                                                   per day
  Operating short-term rental for
                                                                                                         $650.00 per infraction
  less than two nights for each stay
                                                                                                               per day

  Holding special event at short                                                                         $650.00 per infraction
  term rental - first violation                                                                                per day
  Holding special event at short
                                                                                                              $1,300.00 per
  term rental - subsequent
                                                                                                            infraction per day
  violations
                                                                                                         $100.00 per infraction
  Other short-term rental violations     Violations not covered in the above categories.
                                                                                                               per day


 Civil Penalties for Violation of Zoning Regulations


 Violation of the provisions of Title 19 of the City of Kearns Municipal Code shall result in civil penalties pursuant to the
 following schedule:
CIVIL PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF ZONING REGULATIONS
    Type of Zone                    Classification of Violation                           Fine Per Day (after warning period)
   Residential
   Zones                           Conditional use without a permit
                                                                                         $75
   R-1's                           Other violations
   R-2's
   R-4-8.5
   RMH                                        Non-permitted use
                                                                                         $150
                                              Violation of permit for approval


                                              Conditional use without a
                                                                                         $100
   Mixed Zones                                permit Other violations
   R-M

   NMU                                        Non-permitted use
                                                                                         $200
   TC                                         Violation of permit or approval
   CMU

                                              Conditional use without a permit
   Commercial/Manufacturing Zones                                                        $150
                                              Other violations
   C's
   M's
                                              Non-permitted use
                                                                                         $300
                                              Violation of permit or approval

   Agricultural Zones
                                              Conditional use without a
   A's                                                                                   $75
                                              permit Other violations

                                              Non-permitted use
                                                                                         $150
                                              Violation of permit or approval

  Other Zones                                                                           $100
                                              Conditional use without a
  PR                                          permit
  PF
                                              Other violations
                                                                 14
PI                                                                                                $200
                                                  Non-permitted use
                                                 Violation of permit or approva
 Overlay Zones
 AOZ                                              Violation of provisions                          $200



Each day a violation is continued or maintained after receipt of notice shall give rise to a separate civil penalty for each day of
violation.

Bond Administration Fees


                Fee Type                                                 Description                                           Amount
 Bond Processing Fee                         Must be paid prior to acceptance of bond.                                         $100.00
                                             Will be called if improvements are not complete by
 Bond Forfeiture
                                             expiration date.                                                                  Varies a

 Deferred Curb and Gutter                                                                                                      Varies b
                                             Inspections required for partial bond release or if
 Bond Reinspection                                                                                                             $100.00
                                             applicant fails bond inspections twice.
 Overtime/After-hours Inspection                                                                                        $120.00 (Per hour)

       a Based on bond amount
       b Based on project size



Miscellaneous Service Fees


                Fee Type                                                 Description                                           Amount
 Development Agreements                                                                                                        Varies a
                                             Per hour fees for staff time not covered under specific fee
 Hourly Rate                                                                                                              $80.00 per hour
                                             types.
 GRAMA                                       Time spent on research and compiling.                                          Actual cost b
 Material Costs                              Copies, maps, CDs, USB drives, etc.                                            Actual cost b
                                             Research related to administrative decisions, zoning                        $25.00 base fee
 Research                                    compliance letters, or determination of legal status of a
                                                                                                                       plus $25.00 per hour
                                             lot or parcel.
                                             Activities performed by the Salt Lake County Health
 Health Department Review                                                                                                   County fee c
                                             Department.
 Postage                                     For noticing mailings, postage is charged per meeting.                         Actual cost b
 Newspaper Notices                           Notices of meetings before Councils.                                           Actual cost b
 Candidate Filing Fee                        Fee for Declaration of Candidacy in a Municipal Election                          $50.00

     a Development agreements will be determined between local government agency and Applicant prior to acceptance of the application.
     b Customer will be charged actual costs of materials per MSD Records and Access and Management Policy.
     c Health Department fees will be charged as provided in the Salt Lake County Fee Schedule.




                                                                        15
Engineering Fees

The fees below are collected by the MSD on behalf of the Engineering Division.
    Right-of-way Improvement Review & Inspection Fees                                                             Amount
    Replacement of existing                Replacement of existing curb & gutter, sidewalk, and
                                                                                                                 No charge
    improvements                           drive approach improvements in the same configuration.
                                           Changes to sidewalks and drive approaches where curb              $20.00 base fee
    Changes to improvements
                                           & gutter are already present. Includes review and               plus $1.00 per linear
    (existing curb & gutter)
                                           inspection by County. Design and staking by applicant.                  foot
                                           Addition of curb & gutter, sidewalks, and/or drive
    Changes to improvements (no                                                                             $150.00 base fee
                                           approaches where no curb & gutter or sidewalk are
    existing curb & gutter or                                                                              plus $1.00 per linear
                                           present. Includes review and inspection by County.
    sidewalk)                                                                                                      foot
                                           Design and staking by applicant.
                                                                                                            $100.00 base fee
    Changes to sidewalk (no existing       Addition of sidewalk only. Includes review and inspection
                                                                                                           plus $1.00 per linear
    curb & gutter or sidewalk)             by County. Design and staking by applicant.
                                                                                                                   foot
    Changes to drive approach (no                                                                           $100.00 base fee
                                           Addition of drive approaches only. Includes review and
    existing curb & gutter or                                                                              plus $0.50 per linear
                                           inspection by County. Design and staking by applicant.
    sidewalk)                                                                                                      foot
I   Engineering Plan Check Fees                                                                                   Amount
                                           Engineering check fee, final subdivision fee and plat filing
    For Subdivision Development
                                           for subdivisions                                                     Calculated a

    Amended Subdivision Plat                                                                                      $400.00
                                                                                                           $150 upon submittal
    Non-Subdivision Development                                                                             then Calculated b
    Other Fees                                                                                                    Amount
    Road Dedication (non
                                           Where required for street widening and improvements.                   $150.00
    subdivision development)
                                           Includes sign and installation by MSD or contracted
    Street Sign                                                                                                   $200.00
                                           service provider
Geology/Natural Hazard Review Fees                                                                                Amount
                                           Determination of whether project falls within boundaries
    Initial Site Assessment                                                                                       $200.00
                                           of any mapped hazards.
                                                                                                             Actual cost of third
                                                                                                             party review plus
    Review of Technical Report             Coordination and review of third-party technical report.           $300.00 agency
                                                                                                                  review

Traffic Impact Review Fees                                                                                        Amount
    Initial Site Assessment                Determination of whether project meets TIS threshold.                  $200.00
                                                                                                            Actual cost of third-
                                                                                                             party review plus
    Review of Technical Report             Coordination and review of third-party technical report.
                                                                                                            $100 agency review


      a   Prior to review, 35% of 6% of improvement estimate, default of $90 per lot, minimum of $10 or the appropriate calculation.
          Prior to recording or construction, 100% of 6% of improvement estimate minus fee already paid.
      b   Prior to approval or construction, 4.5% of total improvement estimate for off-site, and on-site storm drainage minus $150 fee
          already paid.




                                                                  16
Public Works - Engineering Special Events
 Special Events within Kearns require the submittal of an application.


 Insurance certificates, maps, and fees will need to be submitted to the Permit Specialist before your request can be
 fully processed. See fee schedule below.

Special Event Permit Fees (for municipalities within the District)

 # of Participants                                                Fee per day

 0 to 100                                                         $50.00

 100 to 200                                                       $100.00

 200 to 400                                                       $200.00

 400 to 600                                                       $500.00

 Over600                                                          $1,000.00

 Filming Fees                                                     $200.00



     •   Special events or Filming held on any state roadway(s) may also require an additional permit from Utah
         Department of Transportation.

     •   Special events or Filming held in any canyon may also require an additional permit from United States
         Department of Agriculture, Forest Service Division.

     •   Sponsors of block parties will also be required to submit paperwork with the signatures of affected
         neighbors' concurrence of the road closure. This paperwork should reflect the addresses of each resident,
         as well as their signature indicating agreement for the road closure. Barricades and security are the
         responsibility of the applicant.




                                                             17
Glossary of Terms


Condominium Plat: The procedure to review and record a condominium plat is subject to the Condominium Ownership
Act (57.8- Utah Code). Staff review includes addressing all units, a review to verify compliance with the zoning ordinance
and conditions of approval previously imposed and an engineering review to verify compliance with platting requirements.

Director: The Director of Planning and Development or designee.

General Plan Amendment: Planning Commissions make a recommendation to the Council who must authorize
Amendments to a General Plan. A study that includes public involvement is conducted after Council gives the direction to
proceed to the Development Services Director.

Home Daycare I Pre-school Application Fees: Although a home daycare or pre-school may be operated out of a private
residence, it is not considered or reviewed in the same manner as a home business. Therefore, they are listed separately
in the fee schedule and in the ordinance.

Modification to a Recorded Subdivision Plat: Utah Code requires a specific process be followed to amend, vacate or
alter a recorded subdivision plat. This involves application, notice, a public hearing before the planning commission and
executive (commonly referred to as a 608 hearing/ Mayor's Meeting). Additionally, an engineering review of the
preliminary and final plat prior to approval and recording is required. Fees may include Planning Commission Review,
Additional Public Body Review, Technical Review.

MSD: Means the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, which the City of Kearns has contracted with to provide
planning and zoning, building permit, business license, and code enforcement services

PUD (Planned Unit Development): In those zones which allow development of a PUD they are listed as a Conditional
Use, which requires review by the Planning Commission. For developers who intend to sell individual lots within the PUD
both the Planning Commission Review, Conditional Use and a Subdivision Preliminary Plat review would be required,
and a Technical Review prior to final approval is also required. Per the fee schedule each of these reviews requires
separate fee.

Additionally, because more than one review process is required the application would also involve an Agency Review
Meeting. Fees may include: Agency Coordination Meeting, Planning Commission Review (Conditional Use), Planning
Commission Review (Preliminary Plat), Technical Review.

The conditional use approval (Planning Commission approval) is required prior to preparation of the subdivision
preliminary plat to ensure that the recommendations of the Planning Commission are properly incorporated into the
preliminary plat.

Re-Zone (Zoning Map Amendment): A request to change the existing zoning (re-zone) requires: review and
recommendation from the planning commission (Public Body Review) and final decision by the council (Additional Public
Body Review) and technical work (Technical Review) for map and index work).

Signs: Signs vary in the type and complexity of review process required therefore they are listed under several review
types. It is intended that the fees are assessed per review process and not per sign. For example, a business that had 2
signs requiring Planning Commission review would be charged for 1 Planning Commission review. However, a business
which had 1 sign which required Planning Commission review and another sign which did not would be charged for 1
Planning Commission review and 1 staff review.

Subdivision: A request to subdivide property requires review and approval of a preliminary plat, and a Technical Review
of the Final Plat. Additionally, an Agency Review Meeting is required. Note that in the case of a "one-lot" subdivision there
might also be an Administrative Review for the proposed Single-Family Dwelling. Fees may include: Agency Coordination
Meeting, Planning Commission Meeting, Technical Review, Staff Review of a Site Plan.

Valuation: The estimated construction cost for a project.




                                                              18
