                                     CITY OF KEARNS
                                    COUNCIL MEETING
                                         AGENDA
                                      October 14, 2025

                                          Kearns Library
                                         4275 W 5345 S
                                        Kearns, Utah 84118

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Kearns City Council will hold a meeting on the
14th day of October 2025 which is scheduled to begin immediately following the Kearns Community
Reinvestment Agency Meeting scheduled to begin at 6:00 p.m. at the Kearns Library, 4275 W 5345 S,
Kearns, Utah as follows:

**Portions of the meeting may be closed for reasons allowed by statue. Motions relating to any of
the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

                                       PUBLIC MEETING

    1.   CALL TO ORDER
    2.   DETERMINE QUORUM
    3.   VISITING OFFICIALS
    4.   CITIZEN PUBLIC INPUT (Limited to 3 Minutes Per Person)

                                        ORDER OF BUSINESS:
    5. PRESENTATION ITEMS
      A. PTA Proclamation – Cassandra Hodges and Utah PTA

    6. CONSENT AGENDA
      A. Approve Council Meeting Minutes
         a. September 8, 2025
      B. Current Financial Reports

   7. WORKSHOP (Discussion only) - None

   8. COUNCIL BUSINESS – ACTION ITEMS (Discussion/Motion)
      A. Ordinance 2025-O-17, An Ordinance Adopting a Water Use and Preservation Element as
         Part of the City of Kearns' General Plan – Biance Paulino, Long Range Planner

   9. STAKEHOLDER UPDATES / INFORMATION
         A. Kearns Improvement District (KID) - Greg Anderson, General Manager
         B. Kearns Library - Lee Whiting, Librarian
         C. Wasatch Front Waste Recycling District (WFWRD) - Renee Plant, Manager
            a. No October updates
         D. Unified Fire Authority (UFA) – Chief Tyler Lintz
         E. Unified Police Department (UPD) – Chief Levi Hughes
         F. Kearns Community Council – Roger Snow

                                                 1
   10. OTHER BUSINESS
       A. Future Agenda Business (Motion/Voting)

   11. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE §52-4-
       205
       A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health of
           an individual
       B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation
       C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property
       D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and/or
       E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205


   12. ADJOURN

Upon request, within three working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
will provide free auxiliary aids and services to qualified individuals (including sign language
interpreters, alternative, etc.). For assistance, please call (385) 377-9466 – TTY 711.

To address security issues this month’s council meeting will not be available online. Thank you for
your patience. We encourage all members of the public interested in participating to attend the meeting
in person at the time and date listed at the top of this agenda.

POSTED ON: October 12, 2025




                                                   2
                                 CITY OF KEARNS

   Ordinance No. 2025-O-17                                  Date: October 14, 2025

AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A WATER USE AND PRESERVATION ELEMENT
         AS PART OF THE CITY OF KEARNS' GENERAL PLAN

       WHEREAS, the City of Kearns is a municipality and political subdivision of the
State of Utah; and

      WHEREAS, the Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act (the
“Act”), Utah Code, Title 10, Chapter 9a, requires each municipality to prepare and adopt
a comprehensive, long-range general plan for present and future needs and growth and
development of all or any part within the municipality as provided in Utah Code §
10-9a-401; and

       WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-9a-401 requires the Kearns general plan (“General
Plan”) to include an element on water use and preservation that complies with the
requirements of Utah Code § 10-9a-403 (the “Water Element”), which Kearns must adopt
by December 31, 2025; and

      WHEREAS, Kearns has prepared a draft Water Element in consultation with the
Kearns Improvement District and the Taylorsville Bennion Improvement District, which
supply culinary water to Kearns and its residents; and

       WHEREAS, on October 6, 2025, the Kearns Planning Commission held a duly
noticed public hearing to take public comment on the draft Water Element after providing
notice pursuant to Utah Code §§ 10-9a-204 and 10-9a-404; and

       WHEREAS, after taking public comment on the draft Water Element, the Planning
Commission issued a favorable recommendation that Kearns City Council adopt the draft
Water Element with some minor amendments, which have been incorporated in the
attached version; and

      WHEREAS, the Kearns City Council has reviewed the Water Element as
recommended by the Planning Commission and determined that it is in the best interests
of Kearns and its residents to adopt the Water Element.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE KEARNS CITY COUNCIL:

       1.     Enactment: Pursuant to Utah Code §§ 10-9a-401 and 10-9a-403, the
attached Water Element is approved.
         2.     Severability: If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of
this ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this ordinance, or specific
application of this ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in
full force and effect.

        3.      Direction to Mayor and Staff: The Mayor and staff are authorized and directed
to take such steps as may be needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah
law, including but not limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-711;
and (b) to finalize and post the ordinance to Municode, including but not limited to making
non-substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.

        4.     Effective Date: The Water Element will become effective on November 1,
2025.

             ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the Kearns City Council
on this 14th day of October 2025.


                                 [execution on following page]




                                                 2
APPROVED and ADOPTED this 14th day of October 2025.

CITY OF KEARNS


___________________________________
By: Kelly Bush, Mayor


 ATTEST:



 ________________________________
 Diana Baun, City Recorder

Voting:
Council Member Bush        voting _____
Council Member Butterfield voting _____
Council Member Peterson voting _____
Council Member Schaeffer voting _____
Council Member Snow        voting _____


   (Complete as Applicable)
   Date ordinance summary was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code §10-3-
   711:__________________________________________________________________
   Effective date of ordinance: ____________________________________________________




                                                3
                                SUMMARY OF
                      KEARNS CITY ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-17

On October 14, 2025, the Kearns City Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-O-14, adopting a
water use and preservation element of the Kearns General Plan, which will go into effect on
November 1, 2025.

CITY OF KEARNS


___________________________________
By: Kelly Bush, Mayor


 ATTEST:



 ________________________________
 Diana Baun, City Recorder

Voting:
Council member Bush          voting _____
Council member Butterfield   voting _____
Council member Peterson      voting _____
Council member Schaeffer     voting _____
Council member Snow          voting _____

A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-17 is available in the office of the Kearns City
Recorder, 860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah 84123.




                                             4
                                SUMMARY OF
                      KEARNS CITY ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-17

On October 14, 2025, the Kearns City Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-O-14, adopting a
water use and preservation element of the Kearns General Plan, which will go into effect on
November 1, 2025.

CITY OF KEARNS


___________________________________
By: Kelly Bush, Mayor


 ATTEST:



 ________________________________
 Diana Baun, City Recorder

Voting:
Council member Bush          voting _____
Council member Butterfield   voting _____
Council member Peterson      voting _____
Council member Schaeffer     voting _____
Council member Snow          voting _____

A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-17 is available in the office of the Kearns City
Recorder, 860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah 84123.




                                             5
Chapter 5: Kearns Water Element

The General Plan Water Element provides an opportunity for municipalities in the state to
coordinate their land use with the goals and supply of their water providers. Kearns is a small
community primarily served by the Kearns Improvement District (KID) and the Bennion-
Taylorsville Improvement District. The Water Element identifies the water resources currently
available in the City and outlines future needs based not only on population projections, but
also on the land use changes shown in the General Plan Future Land Use Map and related
policies.

Engagement with local water providers is crucial to understanding the state of water in the
City. Coordination with providers and major water users is also essential for consolidating and
prioritizing information, recommendations, and policies. In developing this Water Element, the
City consulted with the Kearns Improvement District and the Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement
District through a series of meetings. This collaboration effort allows the City to better
anticipate the challenges that future development will pose to the provision of this key
resource.

This water element fulfills the requirements identified in State Law 10-9a-403 including the
following objectives:

        1. Analyze the effect of permitted development or patterns of development on water
        demand and water infrastructure.

        2. Consider methods of reducing water demand and per capita water use for existing
        development.

        3. Consider methods of reducing water demand and per capita water use for future
        development.

        4. Evaluate modifications that can be made to the City’s government operations to
        reduce and eliminate water waste.

Thank you to our collaborators:

    •   Kearns Improvement District
    •   Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District




Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                                       1
Water Resources




Figure 1. Water Resources Overview




Kearns General Plan: Water Element   2
Existing Water Resources
Kearns residents are served by two public water providers, the Kearns Improvement District
(KID) and the Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District. KID serves the majority of the City
and portions of surrounding areas within West Valley, Taylorsville, West Jordan, and
unincorporated Salt Lake County. Sources for the Kearn’s Improvement District and
Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District include:

    •   Jordan Valley Conservancy District wholesale agreement
    •   12 Kearns Improvement District Deep Wells
    •   9 active Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District active wells

Kearns Improvement District receives much of their water via the wholesale agreement between
Jordan Valley Conservancy District, accounting for roughly 93% of the total KID annual water
use today, with the remaining 7% of water supply produced by 12 KID owned deep wells. The
district is currently contracted to purchase 7,750 acre-feet of water from Jordan Valley
Conservancy District with an allowable increase of 120% annually to meet district supply needs.
In the future, contracted wholesale water deliveries between Jordan Valley Water Conservancy
District and KID are expected to increase to 9,400 acre-feet annually with an allowed increase
of 120% with a maximum annual supply of 11,280 acre-feet.

Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District water production consists of water from 9 active wells
with an additional 13 inactive wells. Currently, Taylorsville-Bennion produces roughly 65% of
their annual water supply from District owned wells. The remaining supply is received from
Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District through a wholesale contract of 4,700 acre-feet
annually, or roughly 35% of the district's annual production, with no additional supply capacity
anticipated in the future. The sources that sustain KID and Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement
District’s culinary water are described in Table 1: Existing Water Sources below.

 Table 1: Existing Water Sources (KID Water Conservation Plan, 2022; Taylorsville-Bennion Water
 Conservation Plan, 2024)
 Existing Source                    Kearns Improvement District       Taylorsville-Bennion
                                    (Ac. Ft.)                         Improvement District (Ac. Ft.)
 Existing Deep Wells               678.9                             15,825

 JVCWD Wholesale Supply            9,300                             4,700
 Contact

 Subtotal                          9,978.9                           20,525


In the future, KID anticipates continued wholesale contracts with the Jordan Valley Water
Conservancy District, with a relatively small share coming from their existing wells. The
Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District plans to rehabilitate active wells over time but does
not require new sources to meet the future demands.

The City accounts for 57% of the parcels within the Kearns Improvement District, with the
remaining service area encompassing sections of West Jordan (26%), West Valley City (13%),
unincorporated Salt Lake County (3%) and Taylorsville (1%). Additionally, Kearns accounts for
7% of the parcels within the Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District, with the remaining
parcels within Taylorsville (88%), West Valley City (4%), and West Jordan (1%). While the
distribution of parcels across these service areas is helpful, this does not necessarily account for
the exact share that the City has in water use from each provider. Water users have different
needs, for example parks which are generally all within one parcel require significantly more




Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                                            3
water than residential parcels, these different uses are dispersed differently throughout the
cities that the districts serve.




         Figure 2. Share of Parcels within         Figure 3. Share of Parcels within
         the Taylorsville-Bennion                  the Kearns Improvement District
         Improvement District Boundary             Boundary



                          KID Supply from Source (Ac-Ft.)
 10000
  9000
  8000
  7000
  6000
  5000
  4000
  3000
  2000
  1000
     0
      2020                  2021                 2022                  2023              2024

       Hercules Tank Well (WS014)                   Monroc Well #10 (WS011)
       Well #1 (WS003)                              Well #11 (WS012)
       Well #12 (WS013)                             Well #2 (WS004)
       Well #3 (WS005)                              Well #5 (WS007)
       Well #6 (WS008)                              Well #8 5350 W 5400 S (WS009)
       Well #9 4550 S 6000 W (WS010)                Purchased from Jordan Valley WCD (WS001)


 Figure 4. KID Culinary Water Supply in 2024 (Division of Water Rights, 2025)




Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                                             4
               Taylorsville-Bennion Supply from Source (Ac-Ft.)
 16000
 14000
 12000
 10000
  8000
  6000
  4000
  2000
     0
      2020                  2021                   2022                  2023                   2024

         Atherton East Well (WS023)                  Atherton West Well (WS024)
         Barker West Well (WS003)                    Pioneer Well (WS027)
         Rawson Well (WS026)                         Swensen Well (WS029)
         Taylorsville East Well (WS002)              Taylorsville West Well (WS021)
         Valley Well (WS028)                         Purchased from Jordan Valley WCD (WS004)

 Figure 5. Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District Culinary Water Supply in 2024 (Division of Water
 Rights, 2025)


Secondary Water

Additionally, about 99 acres of the City are
within the Utah Lake Distributing Co. service
area. Secondary water is available through
Utah Lake Distributing and the Utah & Salt
Lake Canal Co. via Jordan River and the
Utah Lake Dam. Neither KID nor the
Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement Districts
currently supply secondary water or
anticipate development of their own
secondary water infrastructure. The figure
below depicts the secondary and irrigation
service areas within the City.




                                                  Figure 6. Irrigation Companies




Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                                            5
Culinary Water Demand
Demand for culinary water is closely monitored by water providers to help identify trends that
can help them better understand future water supply needs, develop new sources, and identify
conservation goals. The Water Conservation Plans and the Culinary Water Master Plans for
each culinary water provider identify the number of connections, the use per connection and
land use, the per capita water usage for each of the service areas, and peak usage numbers.

The Conservation Plans identify conservation methods and specific timelines and
implementation steps to achieve these goals and the impact that conservation will have on the
total water demand. These plans project water demand and supply requirements to the year
2065, well beyond the life of the Kearns General Plan.

Water Conservation Plans

Water Conservation Plans are updated by water providers every 5 years and are required by
State law to include water conservation goals, actions, and associated timelines. Goals included
in this water element directly reflect the goals and actions from each of the City’s water
providers and should be regularly updated to reflect progress within these service areas and
evolving conservation best
practices.

    •   Kearns Improvement
        District Water
        Conservation Plan
    •   Taylorsville-Bennion
        Improvement District
        Water Conservation Plan

The General Plan Element focuses
more heavily on KID, which covers
a higher proportion of the City.
However, the improvement
districts both extend beyond the
city boundary. Because of this,
additional land use analysis is
used in this Water Element to
identify needs and trends as they
relate to the municipality itself,
not just within the service provider
boundaries. Importantly, this
section identifies total
connections, per capita use and
goals, and actions that are being
taken by both water providers to
make the provision of water more
efficient.




                                       Figure 7. Water Provider Service Boundaries




Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                                      6
Kearns Improvement District
The Kearns Improvement District was established in 1957 to provide water and sewer services to
customers in Kearns after the closure of the Camp Kearns Army Base. In 1957 there were 3,100,
today KID provides culinary water to 14,573 connections and serving a population of 56,555.
The district serves Kearns, but also several surrounding cities, including West Valley, West
Jordan, Taylorsville City, and unincorporated areas of Salt Lake County. Today the water users
that use the most per connection are industrial and commercial users, however, the greatest
proportion of water in the district is used for residential use which accounts for more land than
commercial and industrial.


               Table 2. Customer Connections (2024, Source: DNR Division of
               Water Rights)
               Connection Type                       Connections
               Residential                           14,161
               Commercial                            210
               Industrial                            20
               Institutional                         182
               Total                                 14,573
               ERC Value                             21,298



            Average Gallons per                               Total Use by Type (Ac-Ft)
            Connection per Day                                            674.47 170.78
                               30110

                                                                   1,972.02


                                                                                                  5,590.25
                  8384

      352                                 837

   Residential Commercial Industrial Institutional                       Residential      Commercial
                                                                         Industrial       Institutional




Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                                                 7
Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District
The District serves a population of 67,098 and provides wholesale water (approximately 108.25
ac-ft) to Muirhouse Homeowners Association and Summit Vista Water Company (2024, Source:
DNR Division of Water Rights). Today residential connections use a higher amount of water
compared to residential uses within KID and account for a larger proportion of overall water
supplied by the district.

                 Table 3. Customer Connections (2024, Source: DNR Division of
                 Water Rights)
                 Connection Type                  Connections
                 Residential                      16731
                 Commercial                       528
                 Industrial                       5
                 Institutional                    251
                 Total                            17,515
                 ERC Value                        21,234.46



   Total Use by Type (Ac-Ft)                                  Gallons per Connection Per
                                                                         Day
           1,570.61
                                                                                    8000
        44.67
      935.99
                                                                                                  5586




                                                                       1583
                                 9,478.33
                                                              506

Residential Commercial Industrial Institutional          Residential Commercial   Industrial   Institutional




Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                                         8
Agricultural and Protected Lands
There are no Agricultural Protection Areas
within the City. Kearns is primarily an urban
community. A small portion of the City does
intersect the Utah Lake Distributing
Company service boundary, as shown in
Figure 6. Some residents with property within
the service area may have shares in the
company and access to irrigation water. More
information about the company and
associated water rights and shareholders can
be found at the Division of Water Rights
Online Portal.

Public and Quasi Public Lands
There are not significant amounts of
protected or preserved land within the City
limits. There are, however, public or quasi-
public lands that are opportunity areas for
water conservation and education. Because
these areas may be more frequently
trafficked, they are often larger than typical
single-family residential parcels, and because
they are often managed by larger agencies,
retrofitting landscapes in these facilities may
be more attainable and impactful. In Kearns
the following public/quasi-public uses include
parks, administrative buildings, schools, and
other public facilities like the Olympic Oval.
In 2023, KID retrofitted landscaping             Figure 8. Public and Quasi-Public Land
surrounding 2 of their tanks within the city,
exemplifying the potential that some of these lands may have for water-wise landscaping and
the way that these installations can be marketed to the public as viable options.




Figure 9. KID Office Tank Landscaping and TLA Tank Site Landscaping (Source: KID)




Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                                   9
Current and Future Demands in Improvement Districts
Both service districts have unique water use and availability. These population projections are
sourced differently depending on the key factors present, and do not necessarily account for
land use changes that the county may anticipate over the life of this plan. They also account
for the entire service area, which goes well beyond the Kearns boundary. Because of this, the
Future Land Use Map is used to clearly illustrate the relationship between the desired future
land uses and the water required to support these uses.

The service districts highlight conservation goals that are shown as per capita water use. These
goals are within the target for the Salt Lake County region’s 2065 goal of 183 gpcd. Based on
land use analysis, the City is already within attainment of both conservation goals highlighted
in the chart below.

 Table 4. Water Conservation Demand and Supply Projections


                              Total                                                                          Projected
                              Use      Per capita    Conservation   Population   Capacity      Projected     Demand w
 System          Population                                                                    Demand
                              (Mgal    Use (gpcd)    Goal (gpcd)    Projection   (Mgal/year)   (Mgal/year)   Conservation
                              /year)                                                                         (Mgal/year)




                                       147 (2021 –                  76,266
 KID             56,091       2739.6   5 year        140                         3,896         3,897         N/A
                                       average)                     (2065)




 Taylorsville-
 Bennion         67,098       3919.9   156           171            70,362       661.9         Approx.       Approx.
 Improvement                           (2023)                       (2050)                     6,500         4,900
 District




Anticipated Demands in the City
Future Demand Model for the City of Kearns
In order to understand the needs for the City based on the expected future land use, this
element includes a model that projects water use based on the Future Land Use map. The
Future Land Use map provides information about where and how intensely the City can
anticipate growth that will impact its existing water resources. The map below highlights the
areas in the county where the General Plan envisions additional residential, commercial, or
industrial growth where it currently does not exist, thus adding additional connections to the
existing water providers.




Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                                                     10
Figure 10. Anticipated Future Water Demand

Future annual and per capita water usage for Kearns was modeled at the parcel level, with
projections informed by future land use designations, an Areas of Change analysis, and
established water use factors. Each parcel was modeled to represent both existing and
anticipated future uses, accounting for changes in household and employment numbers where
applicable.


Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                                 11
The areas of change analysis evaluated development potential by cataloging vacant parcels
and identifying redevelopment opportunities. These areas provide the foundation for predicting
where future water demand may increase due to new construction or shifts to higher-intensity
land uses. In Kearns, redevelopment potential was informed by recent redevelopment trends in
key corridors and activity centers.

Water demand calculations were based on a future land use crosswalk table, which translated
each land use into an equivalent residential unit (ERU) factor expressed in gallons per day
(GPD). These ERUs are estimates of number of connections different residential and
employment uses have. A standard factor of 240 gallons per dwelling unit per day was applied
for ERUs.

    •   Residential land uses were modeled using ERUs per dwelling unit.

    •   Employment-based land uses were modeled using ERUs per developed acre.

    •   Mixed-use designations applied both methods, incorporating ERUs for dwelling units
        and ERUs for employment per acre.
 Table 5. Water Usage Factors
        Future Land Use                         Residential                         Employment
 Agriculture                         0                                    3 per developed acre
 Commercial                          0                                    6.6 per developed acre
 Historic Commercial                 0                                    4 per developed acre
 Industrial                          0                                    6.8 per developed acre
 Institutional                       0                                    2.5 per developed acre
 Mixed-Use                           0.7 per dwelling unit                10 per developed acre
 Multi-Family Residential            0.7 per dwelling unit                0
 Neighborhood Commercial             0.7 per dwelling unit                5 per developed acre
 Open Space                          0                                    0
                                     0                                    6.4 per developed acre
 Recreation
 Residential                         1 per dwelling unit                  0
 Transportation                      0                                    0
 Utilities                           0                                    0.5 per developed acre


Parcel-Level Calculation Methods

The Community Water Projections model is a GIS model that considers 5 geospatial
parameters: parcels, land use, building square footage, acres, and areas of change. Parcels
came from Salt Lake County’s Assessors data, building footprints came from an imagery
analysis (to calculate building square footage), land use came from the Municipal Water
Districts, and acres were calculated through parcel geometries.

Residential Parcel-Level Usage
The Residential Water method calculates water usage for both indoor and outdoor use. Below
are the following equations to total each parcel’s water usage:

        Residential Total Gallons Per Day = Households × (ERU per HH by LU) × (Residential GPD per
                                                   ERU)

               Split: Residential Outdoor Use = Residential Total Water Use × Outdoor Share %




Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                                          12
                        Residential Indoor = Residential Indoor – Residential Outdoor

The model first calculates existing water usage through the areas of change analysis
identifying which parcels are currently developed and applying their land use factors. Then the
model calculates future development, again through areas of change, by looking at vacant and
redevelopment parcel potential. Parcels receive density additions based on their development
potential and their future land use factors. Once the model calculates total water usage for
each parcel to account for current and future trends, the model breaks the total water usage
into an indoor and outdoor water share. The “Outdoor Share” is a percentage estimate of how
much total water is used outdoor versus indoor. The model currently assumes 65% of water is
used indoors and 35% is used outdoors for residential.

Employment Parcel-Level Usage

Water usage for employment parcels was also calculated for outdoor and indoor use, as well as
distinguishing the distribution of water based on the estimated number of employees per 1000
sq/ft or by developed acre. Below is the following methodology for this analysis.

  Employment Total Gallons Per Day = (Non-res Building Sqft / 1,000) × (ERU per 1000 ksf by LU) ×
                                  (Employment GPD per ERU)

                   Employment Outdoor = Total Employment x Outdoor Share %

                  Employment Indoor = Total Employment – Employment Outdoor

 Employment Total Gallons Per Day (i.e. Recreation) =Acres x (ERU per acre) x (Employment GPD per
                                                ERU)

Similar to residential parcels, the model calculates the existing and future water usage via the
Areas of Change, projecting water usage based on the likelihood of development on a parcel in
the future. However, employment projections differ in that the projected water demand is tied
to built area (1000 Sqft. blocks, “ksf”) using an ERU per ksf factor, with an exception to
Agriculture and Recreation parcels, which remain acreage based. The “Outdoor Share” for
employment-based land uses has a base of 60% indoor water use and 40% outdoor water use.

For parcels with mixed-use designations, both residential and employment calculations were
applied. For example, a “Mixed-Use” designation used the Multi-Family Residential ERU (0.7
per dwelling unit) alongside the Mixed-Use Employment ERU (10 per developed acre) to
calculate the parcel’s combined daily water use.

 Table 6. Kearns Future Water Projections by Industry
 Future Land      Total GPD     Employment Employment                 Residential       Residential
 Use                            Indoor GPD      Outdoor               Indoor GPD        Outdoor
                                                GPD                                     GPD
  Commercial        379,494.37    128,344.45       85,562.96            107,631.53       57,955.44
    Industrial       112,471.65    67,482.99       44,988.66                 -                -
  Institutional     597,716.26    358,629.75      239,086.50                 -                -
   Mixed Use          7,576.11       1,176.21        784.14              3,905.09         2,102.74
  Multi-Family
   Residential      62,496.00            -              -               40,622.40        21,873.60
 Neighborhood
  Commercial        101,972.20     12,842.48        8,561.65             54,038.77       29,097.80
   Recreation        94,478.59      9,447.86       85,030.73                  -               -
   Residential     2,346,493.48          -              -              1,525,220.76      821,272.72
   Total GPD      3,702,698.67    577,923.74      464,014.65            1,731,418.55    932,302.30


The total share of the water districts supply that is used within the city limits is subject to
change, however the combined total capacity of both districts is 30,504 ac-ft. per year or 8,542



Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                                           13
Mgal per year. The City’s projected demand of 1,351 Mgal per year is approximately 16% of
the total combined supply.

Assuming that the City grows as the Future Land Use map anticipates and maintains relatively
consistent water use the per capita water use in 2065 will be approximately 121.6 gallons per
capita per day by the year 2065. This is well within the targets of the conservation plans. This
assumes that the maximum build out described in the General Plan is realized by the year
2065. Future updates to the General Plan and the Future Land Use Map should be analyzed
with similar methods to identify any changes in land use expectations as they change in the
future.

As identified, the city is within attainment of the conservation goals identified in the
Conservation Plans. Conservation beyond the identified goals is important and should be a
goal for Kearns and all that are served by both Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District and
KID. Both Conservation plans highlight a supply deficit in their conservation plans if
conservation goals are not met. Every drop counts for these communities to ensure adequate
supply and to reduce the costs required to expand water supply. Additionally, the region as a
whole is directly related to the Great Salt Lake. Water that is removed from the system is
water that is ultimately not flowing to the Great Salt Lake. No community is solely responsible
for this regional feature, however, air quality and other environmental conditions for the entire
region will be impacted by lower lake levels. The Utah Department of Environmental Quality
monitors the health of the Lake and the Region. The State also created the Office of the Great
Salt Lake Commissioner in 2023 to consider many factors that affect the Lake and the
potential outcomes of different regional actions, including the conservation of water in
communities within the watershed. Water providers and cities and counties should continue to
monitor these resources to understand changes to conservation goals and the benefits they
may have for the region’s environment.




Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                                       14
Conservation & Protection Today
The water districts go to great lengths to ensure quality water sources that meet the demands
of their customers. The districts maintain their own programming, set payment structures, and
monitor water quality independently of the City. These programs help ensure that Kearns
residents and businesses can access enough reliable and safe water. The City through its land
use regulations can help progress the efforts of the water districts. The analysis above shows
that Kearns’ future land use map
encourages a pattern of development
that will ultimately not put additional
strain on water providers, and the City
can encourage new development also
progress water conservation,
especially through their land use code.

Programming Beyond the
Municipality

Protecting Kearns’ Water Sources
Figure 7. illustrates the designated
culinary source protection zones.
These areas are regulated to prevent
concentrated pollution sources that
could compromise drinking water
quality. The primary focus of
protections relates to onsite
wastewater treatment and disposal,
though restrictions also extend to
potential risks from septic systems,
hazardous materials, and fertilizer
application. Kearns and Taylorsville-
Bennion maintain an annual water
quality report, ensuring that water in
the system meets all state and federal
drinking water standards and
guidelines. Both water providers have
wholesale contracts with the Jordan
Valley Water Conservancy District,
which also takes steps to protect and
monitor water sources.
                                           Figure 11. Ground Water Protection Zones
Utah Water System Efficiency and Water
Loss Control Program

The Utah Water System Efficiency and Water Loss Control Program, launched in 2016
by the Division of Water Resources (DWR) in collaboration with the Intermountain
Section of the American Water Works Association (IMS-AWWA) and Cavanaugh, was
created to help utilities analyze and manage non-revenue water more effectively. The
program promoted the adoption of best practices for water loss control statewide. As
one of three districts in the pilot program, the KID gained valuable insight into its
system efficiency and continues to apply this training to refine leak detection and
water loss monitoring. Current practices include:

    •   Waterwise landscaping
    •   Comprehensive metering and monitoring


Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                                     15
    •   Accounting for construction-related water use
    •   Tracking of non-metered water activities
    •   Ongoing testing, maintenance, and documentation of infrastructure
    •   Annual acoustical leak detection
    •   Main Water Replacement Programs
    •   Systematic recording within GIS system

Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District Water Efficiency Standards
KID has provided significant input and consultation into the development of the Jordan Valley
Water Conservation District (JVWCD) Water Efficiency Standards through the representation
on the JVWCD Board of Trustees and via direct input with JVWCD staff. The water efficiency
standards require conservation standards for indoor plumbing and outdoor landscaping across
land use types and new landscaping construction for new homeowners KID has worked with
Kearns, West Valley City, West Jordan City, and Taylorsville City to adopt these standards.

Water Conservation Rate Structure
As part of the district’s conservation efforts, KID has adopted a tiered water rate structure
where the cost of water significantly increases as water use exceeds basic needs. In 1994, the
Kearns Improvement District adopted an increasing block water rate schedule. The following
table shows the District’s 2022 and 2025-Tierd Water Rate Structure. The Tiered Water Rate
structure is believed to be one of the most significant measures contributing to the reduction of
water use in the District.

Conservation Programs
KID has taken an active role in promoting long-term water conservation by implementing a
variety of programs and community-focused initiatives. These efforts are designed to reduce
water use, increase public awareness, and encourage efficient practices across the district. Key
programs include:

    •   Hiring a part-time water conservation programs coordinator
    •   Conducting public information and education campaigns
    •   Establishing a conservation demonstration garden
    •   Offering a low-flow toilet giveaway program
    •   Distributing reduced-flow showerheads
    •   Providing landscape hose nozzle timers
    •   Conservation messaging on customer bills
    •   Residential and commercial water audits

Advanced Metering

KID is investing in advanced metering infrastructure as part of its long-term water conservation
strategy. As the community continues to grow, efficient water management is critical to
meeting future demand. Advanced metering allows the District and its customers to better
understand consumption patterns. By providing real-time data, the system encourages more
mindful water use and supports conservation practices by encouraging efficient water use. This
tool not only helps protect water resources today but also positions the District to
accommodate future growth while protecting the reliability of its water supply.

Conservation Plan Updates

Both Kearns and Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement Districts are committed to actively
maintaining their Water Conservation Plans to be current and responsive to changing
conditions. Updated every five years in accordance with state requirements, these plans use the


Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                                       16
latest water use data and growth projections to refine conservation goals, evaluate program
effectiveness, and identify new strategies for water efficiency and conservation. By integrating
tools such as advanced metering, public outreach and education, rebates, and partnerships with
local organizations, the districts ensure that conservation remains central to meeting future
demand. Each update also serves as an opportunity to increase transparency and engage the
public, providing residents with a clear roadmap for sustainable water use and encouraging
active participation in protecting local resources.

Conservation Best Management Practices

Kearns and Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement Districts both have an ongoing commitment to
water conservation for the future by following Utah Division of Water Resources’ best
management practices. These practices include:

    •   Appointment of Conservation Director and Committee to help research, coordinate,
        create, and implement public information campaigns, programs, and incentives.
    •   Provide public messaging, materials, and resources to customers on water conservation
        practices.
    •   Hold in-person or remote events to educate and train customers on water conservation
        practices and technologies that can be implemented.
    •   Provide programs for landscape consultation, water budgeting, audits, and
        infrastructure retrofitting and replacement.
    •   Offer rebates, incentives, or rewards for water conservation practices.

Reducing Water Waste
Kearns Improvement District identifies system
improvements. These include grey and green
infrastructure. The District maintains a public
portal highlighting major projects that move the
City and the district toward their water
conservation goals.




                                                   Figure 12. Kearns Improvement District Project Portal

The Kearns Land Use Connection

Ordinances/Standards
While Kearns and Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement Districts do not have direct land use
authority they do work with Salt Lake County, Kearns, West Jordan, and surrounding
communities to promote water-wise landscaping. In 2022, KID adopted water efficiency
landscaping standards that align with the Localscapes concepts. The water efficiency standards
set requirements for indoor and outdoor water use.

The Kearns landscape ordinance reinforces the LocalScapes elements that have been
developed and are reevaluated by the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District. These
standards are not only required by the Kearns Improvement District and the Kearns zoning
ordinance in new development and redevelopment, but they also allow residents to apply for
rebate programs that can provide reimbursements for park strip plantings, front and side yard



Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                                         17
landscape installations, and even classes offered at the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy
Conservation Garden Park.

Kearns subdivision and landscape ordinance was adopted in 2023 and was based closely on
guidance from the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District Localscapes concept. The
ordinance primarily applies to new development, or to building additions that significantly
change the building footprint. Key requirements for residential landscaping include creating a
central open space in front and back yards, locating gathering and activity areas outside this
central zone, using paths and hardscape materials instead of turf for these gathering spaces,
and limiting lawn coverage to no more than 35% of the total landscaped area or 250 square
feet in single-family residential landscapes. Through these standards, the City encourages
functional, attractive, and low-water-use landscapes, supported by educational programs and
incentive opportunities offered by the Kearns Improvement District and the Jordan Valley
Conservancy District.




          Figure 13. Key Components of Landscape Requirements in Residential Development




Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                                         18
The LocalScapes concept has evolved over time, but centers on functional spaces, separation of
irrigation areas into hydrozones, reduction of turfgrass to functional hardscapes and paths, the
use of native or waterwise plants for landscaping, and regular maintenance. The image above
highlights an example of design elements required in new residential development in Kearns.
Multi-family and commercial uses are also subject to water efficiency standards, including the
use of native or water-wise plantings, turfgrass reductions, and efficient irrigation systems.
Commercial and multi-family development have higher restrictions on turfgrass coverage (no
more than 20% of the total landscaped area may be turfgrass). These spaces are also required
to adhere to the landscaping standards in rear yards as well as front and side yards.
Multifamily housing is generally understood to have lower per capita water use than single-
family residential because each dwelling unit shares landscaped areas and other recreation
amenities.

Development of any kind is required to meet the water efficiency standards for the City. The
maximum amount of water that can be used for landscaping is 15 inches per square foot (as an
average of the entire landscaped area). For example, if a lot is 8,000 square feet it may have
approximately 4,000 square feet of landscaped area after removing all buildings, sidewalks,
and drives. The total water use for the entire property is a maximum of 37,479 gallons per year
or 102 gallons per day. This further incentivizes the use of hydrozones, or areas in the
landscaping that have similar water needs and unique irrigation schedules, allowing property
owners to use relatively more water in turfgrass areas or on other non-native plantings while
reducing the average water use in areas of lower water use. To better understand yearly water
needs for certain plant species, the Utah State Extension has an easy to use irrigation
calculator that highlights differences in water use across different types of plantings.
Vegetables and fruits, newly planted and annual plants, and cool season turfgrass generally
have the highest water use. The calculator and other resources highlight the fact that
establishing landscapes requires more water. Depending on species and location different
landscape installations take different amounts of time for establishment. Meaning that root
systems develop fully and can maintain growth with fewer additional resources. In the long
term these water-wise installations provide water conservation and cost savings for property
owners, but before plants are fully established all landscape installations will require relatively
more water. Often establishment may range from one to 3 seasons.

The state and other agencies also provide guidance
on the landscaping of park strips. The most
significant requirement is that park strips less than 8
feet in width may not be planted with turfgrass.
Kearns’ landscape ordinance requires 50 percent
landscape coverage in park strips regardless of
size, and requires trees to be planted every 25
feet along the lot frontage for park strips 8 feet
or wider. Street trees in park strips provide
beautification and health benefits, by lowering the
local temperature, they may also increase property values. The
Kearns landscape ordinance provides guidance on the types of
trees that may be planted and a list of prohibited trees. Options
for park strip plantings are given below to assist property
owners in the installation of landscaping that meets the        Figure 12. Overview of Park Strip Requirements
City’s requirements.




Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                                         19
Goals and Strategies
Some of these strategies and actions are associated with lands that have dynamic ownership
structures. The City and the Municipal Services District should work closely with Salt Lake
County and other collaborators to enact these goals and policies. While some of the physical
improvements included in the action plan note public lands, some public lands are owned and
managed by Salt Lake County. This plan does not govern the county’s management of their
public lands within the city, but should act as guides for any coordination that takes place
between the City and the County in the provision of public land.

 Goal: Reduce outdoor water usage throughout the city.
 Objective: Ensure that the City’s zoning ordinances effectively advance water
 conservation goals.
 Actions                   Responsible Timeline     Cost      Metric          Resources
                           Parties
 Regularly update the      MSD PDS,       Ongoing   Staff     NA              Jordan
 ordinance to reflect the  Kearns PC,               time                      Valley
 most recent guidance      Kearns CC                                          Conservancy
 from the Utah State                                                          District
 University, Jordan                                                           Conservation
 Valley Conservancy                                                           Programs
 District, and other                                                          Utah State
 reputable sources.                                                           University
                                                                              Water-Wise
                                                                              Landscape
                                                                              resources
 Regularly evaluate        MSD PDS,       Ongoing   Staff     NA
 compliance with the       Kearns PC,               time
 City’s landscape          Kearns CC
 ordinance.
 Update the landscape      MSD PDS,       Ongoing   Staff     NA
 ordinance to encourage Kearns PC,                  time
 alternative turf options. Kearns CC
 Provide options for       MSD PDS,       Ongoing   Staff     NA
 landscape design in the Kearns PC,                 time
 General Plan              Kearns CC
 facilitating compliance
 with the City’s
 ordinances.
 Reduce water waste in City-owned spaces.
 Where feasible contract Kearns           Short     $         Number of       Qwel
 landscaping to            Public         term                contracts or    Resources
 landscapers with Qwel     Works                              public works
 certifications or other                                      staff
 water efficient                                              members
 landscape education.                                         with Qwel
                                                              certifications
                                                              (or other
                                                              relevant
                                                              certifications/
                                                              education)
 Prioritize sites for      MSD PDS,       Short     Staff     NA
 retrofitting landscaping Kearns          term      time
 to highlight native       Public
 species and other water- Works
 efficient landscape
 elements.
 Retrofit landscapes in    Kearns         Mid term $$
 publicly owned land to    Public
 emphasize water-wise      Works
 principles.
 Where possible replace    Kearns         Mid term $$
 cool season turf with     Public


Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                                    20
 alternative turfgrasses    Works,
 in public spaces           SLCo Parks
 (including buffalo grass   and
 and fescues).              Recreation
 Monitor water use over     Kearns      Mid term Staff
 time to identify water     Public                   time
 conservation post          Works,
 landscape installation.    SLCo Parks
                            and
                            Recreation
 Objective: Educate private property owners, providing resources that emphasize
 landscape options that are beautiful and conserve water.
 Market resources from      Kearns PC,  Ongoing      $       Number of     KID
 the Kearns                 MSD PDS,                         subscribers   Conservation
 Improvement District       JVWCD,                           or viewers of Programs
 and the Jordan Valley      KID, TBID                        marketing     Jordan
 Conservancy District                                        material on   Valley
 including conservation                                      City channels Water
 gardens and standard                                        including     Conservancy
 landscape plans.                                            website and   District
                                                             social media. Programs
 Incorporate                Kearns PC,  Ongoing      $       Number of     Kearns
 Improvement District       MSD PDS,                         conservation  Improvement
 resources in city          JVWCD,                           classes or    District
 programming and            KID, TBID                        programs per Conservation
 spaces, including                                           year          Programs
 conservation events and
 classes.
 Goal: Advance collaboration with service providers.
 Objective: Engage the improvement districts in development review.
 Include improvement        Kearns PC,  Ongoing      Staff   NA
 district representation in MSD PDS,                 time
 pre application            JVWCD,
 meetings for large multi KID, TBID
 family or mixed-use
 development that may
 have high water
 demand.
 Engage improvement         Kearns PC,  Long         Staff   NA
 districts in all updates   MSD PDS,    term         time
 to the landscaping         JVWCD,
 ordinance.                 KID, TBID
 Engage improvement         Kearns PC,  Long         Staff   NA
 districts in future        MSD PDS,    term         time
 updates to the General     JVWCD,
 Plan, particularly the     KID, TBID
 Water Element and
 Land Use Chapters.




Kearns General Plan: Water Element                                              21
                                                          Ordinance Amendment
Meeting Body: Kearns City Council                                PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Meeting Date: October 13, 2025            The proposed action is the adoption of the Water Use & Preservation
                                          Element as a new chapter of the Kearns General Plan. This update is
File Number &         Project     Type:
OAM2025-001490                            required by Utah Code §10-9a-403 and ensures that the City coordinates
                                          land use planning with available water resources. The Water Use &
This amendment adopts the Water
                                          Preservation Element documents existing supply, projected future
Use & Preservation Element as a new
                                          demand, and establishes conservation strategies. Adoption will impact all
chapter of the Kearns General Plan,
ensuring compliance with state law        properties in Kearns by ensuring new and existing development is
and aligning future land use with         supported by sustainable water resources.
available water resources and
                                                                    ISSUES/CONCERNS
conservation goals.
Planner: Bianca Paulino
                                          Issue 1: State law compliance

Applicant: N/A                            Analysis: Utah Code requires municipalities to adopt a General Plan
                                          Water Use & Preservation Element. Without it, the City risks
Key Findings:
                                          noncompliance. Adoption addresses this by providing an up-to-date
     Finding 1: Adoption of the Water     element with provider coordination, supply and demand modeling, and
Use & Preservation Element is             conservation strategies.
required under Utah Code §10-9a-
403.                                      Issue 2: Growth and water demand
    Finding 2: Projected growth can       Analysis: Projected growth could increase water demand. The Water Use
be supported by existing and planned      & Preservation Element demonstrates that even at full build-out, per
water supplies if conservation goals
                                          capita demand remains within regional conservation goals. Land use
are met.
                                          policies and water-wise ordinances provide tools to maintain efficiency.
    Finding 3: The Element aligns the
General Plan with sustainability and      Issue 3: Regional water conservation
resource management goals.
                                          Analysis: The health of the Great Salt Lake and regional air quality are
                                          tied to water conservation. The Water Use & Preservation Element
Staff   Recommendation:      Staff        strengthens Kearns’ local landscaping standards, tiered rates, and
recommends the City Council adopt         coordination with water providers to reduce waste at the community
the Water Use & Preservation              level, while also advancing shared regional goals.
Element as an amendment to the
Kearns General Plan


Exhibits:   Kearns   Water      Element
Chapter




       Ordinance Amendment: OAM2025-001490                                          Date: 09/19/2025 | Page 1 of 3
                                 GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The proposed amendment adopts the Water Use & Preservation Element as a new component of the
Kearns General Plan. While not previously included, this Element is required under Utah Code §10-9a-
403 and will serve as an addition to the adopted General Plan (2020).

The Element draws upon the Future Land Use Map (pp. 28–35, Kearns General Plan, 2020) to model
anticipated growth and ensure it can be supported with available water resources. Adoption aligns the
General Plan with state law and strengthens the Plan’s goals for sustainability, resource management,
and coordinated land use planning.

                         APPLICABLE FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION
Table 19.16.080 includes the following guidelines a planning commission and Council may consider in
deciding zoning map and text amendments:

GUIDELINES FOR CONSIDERING ZONING TEXT AMENDMENTS

The proposed amendment is compatible with the Adopted General Plan.

The proposed amendment promotes the public health, safety and welfare.

The proposed amendment is compatible with the intent and general purposes of this Ordinance.


The proposed amendment corrects an error or omission, adds clarification to existing requirements, or
reflects a change in policy.

The proposed amendment benefits the citizens of the Municipality as a whole.

The proposed amendment does not create a significant number of nonconformities.



                                           PUBLIC INPUT
On October 6, 2025, Planning Staff received an email from F. Greg Anderson, P.E., General Manager/CEO
of the Kearns Improvement District, expressing support for the document.

       “I have read through the General Plan Water Element Plan document to be heard by the Planning
       Commission tonight for the City of Kearns. On behalf of the Kearns Improvement District, I support
       the document as presented.

       Respectfully submitted,

       F. Greg Anderson, P.E.

       General Manager/CEO”




Ordinance Amendment: OAM2025-001490                                     Date: 09/19/2025 | Page 2 of 3
                              ANALYSIS AND RECOMMENDATION
Analysis and Summary:

The proposed amendment adopts the Water Use & Preservation Element as a new chapter of the
Kearns General Plan, fulfilling the requirements of Utah Code §10-9a-403. This Element was drafted in
coordination with the Kearns Improvement District (KID) and Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District
(TBID) to ensure that anticipated growth reflected in the Future Land Use Map can be supported by
available water resources.

Key issues included ensuring compliance with state law, addressing long-term conservation goals, and
coordinating land use with provider capacity. During the drafting process, staff incorporated feedback
from providers and key stakeholders, integrated updated water conservation goals, and aligned
ordinance references with the City’s adopted landscaping standards. The Element demonstrates that
projected demand at full build-out remains within regional conservation targets, and that ongoing
ordinance updates, conservation programs, and interagency coordination will maintain system
reliability.

Recommendation:

Staff recommends the City Council adopt the Water Use & Preservation Element as an amendment to
the Kearns General Plan

                                     CITY COUNCIL OPTIONS:
As a decisioning body for zoning map amendments and text changes, the Kearns City Council has the
following options:

    1. Approval: The city council recommends approval of application OAM2025-001490 to adopt the
       Water Use & Preservation Element as an additional chapter to the General Plan.
    2. Approval with changes: The city council recommends approval of application OAM2025-001490
       to adopt the Water Use & Preservation Element as an additional chapter to the General Plan.
    3. Denial: Having considered the Guidelines for Zoning Text Amendments contained in Chapter
       19.16 of the City of Kearns zoning ordinance, city council recommends denial of application
       OAM2025-001490 to adopt the Water Use & Preservation Element as an additional chapter to
       the General Plan.




Ordinance Amendment: OAM2025-001490                                     Date: 09/19/2025 | Page 3 of 3
                                          Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                          Standard Financial Report
                                                 50 City of Kearns - 07/01/2025 to 08/31/2025
                                                    16.67% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                                2025             2026
                                                              Year-End           YTD
                                                               Actual           Actual
Net Position
 Assets:
  Current Assets
   Cash and cash equivalents
    10100 Cash - Zions Checking                              1,479,222.21     (562,060.68)
    10110 Cash - Xpress Bill Pay                                 3,315.10        13,350.09
    10200 Cash - PTIF                                        1,148,306.74     1,726,991.56
    10401 Zions Credit Card                                        (80.51)        (164.51)
    10750 Undeposited Receipts                                      (0.09)           (0.05)
   Total Cash and cash equivalents                           2,630,763.45     1,178,116.41
   Receivables
    11530 Accounts Rec. -                                       17,878.51         8,602.71
    12500 Due From Other Gov.                                1,655,726.00     2,547,273.82
    12550 Due from Other Funds                                     510.00         4,050.00
   Total Receivables                                         1,674,114.51     2,559,926.53
  Total Current Assets                                       4,304,877.96     3,738,042.94
  Non-Current Assets
   Restricted assets
    10102 Cash - Zions Bond Escrow                              95,324.92        43,388.77
   Total Restricted assets                                      95,324.92        43,388.77
  Total Non-Current Assets                                      95,324.92        43,388.77
 Total Assets:                                               4,400,202.88     3,781,431.71
 Liabilites and Fund Equity:
  Liabilities:
   Current liabilities
    21000 Accounts Payable                                       8,751.20        48,646.56
    21100 Accrued Expenses                                      17,547.09        17,547.09
    23450 Performance Bonds Payable                             95,324.92        43,388.77
    24000 Due to Other Funds                                 1,674,114.51         6,283.41
   Total Current liabilities                                 1,795,737.72       115,865.83
  Total Liabilities:                                         1,795,737.72       115,865.83
  Equity - Fund Balance
   29000 Unassigned Net Position (Fund Bal)                  1,739,781.47     2,800,882.19
   29010 Net Assets - Restricted Capital Fund                  262,683.69       262,683.69
   29561 Net Assets - Restricted Corridor Preservation         602,000.00       602,000.00
  Total Equity - Fund Balance                                2,604,465.16     3,665,565.88
 Total Liabilites and Fund Equity:                           4,400,202.88     3,781,431.71
Total Net Position                                                    0.00               0.00




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                   Page 1                       9/23/2025 11:31 AM
                                          Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                           Standard Financial Report
                                                  50 City of Kearns - 07/01/2025 to 08/31/2025
                                                     16.67% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                                 2025             2026                           Unearned/            %
                                                               Year-End           YTD               2026          Unused            Earned/
                                                                Actual           Actual            Budget         Budget             Used
Change In Net Position
 Revenue:
  Taxes
   Sales taxes
    3100.300 Sales Tax                                        6,900,633.70     1,050,000.00       6,500,000.00    5,450,000.00          16.15%
   Total Sales taxes                                          6,900,633.70     1,050,000.00       6,500,000.00    5,450,000.00          16.15%
   SB 136 Sales Tax
    3100.350 SB 136 Sales Tax                                   618,184.70       105,000.00        650,000.00      545,000.00           16.15%
   Total SB 136 Sales Tax                                       618,184.70       105,000.00        650,000.00      545,000.00           16.15%
  Total Taxes                                                 7,518,818.40     1,155,000.00       7,150,000.00    5,995,000.00          16.15%
  Intergovernmental revenue
   B&C Road Fund Allotment
     3100.560 B&C Road Fund Allotment                         1,721,486.51       300,000.00       1,600,000.00    1,300,000.00          18.75%
     3100.561 HB244 Corridor Preservation Funds                 302,000.00        73,000.00               0.00      (73,000.00)          0.00%
     3100.562 Public Transportation Tax                           6,283.41             0.00               0.00             0.00          0.00%
   Total B&C Road Fund Allotment                              2,029,769.92       373,000.00       1,600,000.00    1,227,000.00          23.31%
   CARES Act
    3100.322 ARPA Funds                                                0.00               0.00    2,631,285.00    2,631,285.00           0.00%
   Total CARES Act                                                     0.00               0.00    2,631,285.00    2,631,285.00           0.00%
  Total Intergovernmental revenue                             2,029,769.92       373,000.00       4,231,285.00    3,858,285.00           8.82%
  Licenses and permits
   Business licenses
    3100.130 Business Licenses                                   54,126.00          9,576.00        50,000.00        40,424.00          19.15%
   Total Business licenses                                       54,126.00          9,576.00        50,000.00        40,424.00          19.15%
   Building permits
    3100.260 Building Permit                                    190,854.69        31,302.12        200,000.00      168,697.88           15.65%
   Total Building permits                                       190,854.69        31,302.12        200,000.00      168,697.88           15.65%
  Total Licenses and permits                                    244,980.69        40,878.12        250,000.00      209,121.88           16.35%
  Charges for services
   Charges other
    3100.420 Engineering Services                                23,374.00          5,645.75        50,000.00        44,354.25          11.29%
    3100.450 Planning Services                                    5,742.06            531.50        15,000.00        14,468.50           3.54%
   Total Charges other                                           29,116.06          6,177.25        65,000.00        58,822.75           9.50%
  Total Charges for services                                      29,116.06         6,177.25        65,000.00        58,822.75           9.50%
  Fines and forfeitures
   Code enforcement fines and fees
    3100.240 Code Enforcement Fines and Fees                     20,259.64                0.00        5,000.00        5,000.00           0.00%
   Total Code enforcement fines and fees                         20,259.64                0.00        5,000.00        5,000.00           0.00%
   Justice court fines/forfeitures
    3100.500 Justice Court Fines/Forfeitures                    266,369.54        54,445.46        250,000.00      195,554.54           21.78%
   Total Justice court fines/forfeitures                        266,369.54        54,445.46        250,000.00      195,554.54           21.78%
  Total Fines and forfeitures                                   286,629.18        54,445.46        255,000.00      200,554.54           21.35%
  Interest
   3600.100 Interest Earnings                                    54,641.13          4,324.60       125,000.00      120,675.40            3.46%
  Total Interest                                                 54,641.13          4,324.60       125,000.00      120,675.40            3.46%
  Miscellaneous revenue
   Miscellaneous other
    3600.900 Other Revenue                                       18,670.20                0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00%
    3600.902 Other Revenue - Declaration of Candidate               400.00                0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00%
   Total Miscellaneous other                                     19,070.20                0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00%
  Total Miscellaneous revenue                                    19,070.20                0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00%
  Contributions and transfers
   3800.100 Contribution from GF                              1,083,361.00     1,221,141.00       1,221,141.00            0.00         100.00%
  Total Contributions and transfers                           1,083,361.00     1,221,141.00       1,221,141.00            0.00         100.00%
 Total Revenue:                                              11,266,386.58     2,854,966.43      13,297,426.00   10,442,459.57          21.47%
 Expenditures:
  Administration

INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                    Page 2                                                   9/23/2025 11:31 AM
                                        Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                        Standard Financial Report
                                               50 City of Kearns - 07/01/2025 to 08/31/2025
                                                  16.67% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                              2025             2026                            Unearned/          %
                                                            Year-End           YTD                2026          Unused          Earned/
                                                             Actual           Actual            Budget          Budget           Used
   4100.100 Wages                                            103,565.34        19,366.66         225,000.00      205,633.34          8.61%
   4100.130 Employee Benefits                                     75.60            18.90          19,800.00       19,781.10          0.10%
   4100.150 Social Security Tax                                6,339.21         1,185.86          14,000.00       12,814.14          8.47%
   4100.160 Medicare                                           1,482.56           277.34           3,500.00        3,222.66          7.92%
   4100.180 Medical Insurance                                 55,420.94        15,943.08         132,500.00      116,556.92         12.03%
   4100.200 Awards, Promotional & Meals                        1,092.42           149.06           1,500.00        1,350.94          9.94%
   4100.210 Subscriptions/Memberships                         23,630.20        19,802.08          30,000.00       10,197.92         66.01%
   4100.220 Printing/Publications/Advertising                  4,576.52         3,323.87           5,500.00        2,176.13         60.43%
   4100.230 Travel/Mileage                                    11,446.73            18.95           1,500.00        1,481.05          1.26%
   4100.240 Office Expense and Supplies                        3,421.59              0.00          5,000.00        5,000.00          0.00%
   4100.255 Computer Equip/software                                 0.00             0.00         30,000.00       30,000.00          0.00%
   4100.310 Attorney-Civil                                   102,804.50        12,448.00         130,000.00      117,552.00          9.58%
   4100.312 Lobbyist Services                                 12,000.00         2,000.00          12,000.00       10,000.00         16.67%
   4100.320 Attorney - Land Use                                1,971.00        12,802.50          40,000.00       27,197.50         32.01%
   4100.330 Training and Seminars                                750.00              0.00              0.00            0.00          0.00%
   4100.360 Web Page Development/Maintenance                   6,323.92            21.98          15,000.00       14,978.02          0.15%
   4100.370 Software/Streaming                                18,745.98        13,997.70          17,000.00        3,002.30         82.34%
   4100.380 Internet Connections                               5,990.94              0.00          5,500.00        5,500.00          0.00%
   4100.390 Payroll Processing Fees                              504.00           102.00               0.00        (102.00)          0.00%
   4100.420 Contributions/Special Events                      78,500.00              0.00         90,000.00       90,000.00          0.00%
   4100.510 Insurance                                         25,960.79        24,697.28          40,000.00       15,302.72         61.74%
   4100.520 Workers Comp Insurance                                  0.00        2,086.21           8,500.00        6,413.79         24.54%
   4100.590 Postage                                            7,693.10         4,950.49           5,000.00           49.51         99.01%
   4100.600 Professional and Technical                         1,980.00              0.00          7,500.00        7,500.00          0.00%
   4100.621 Victim Critical Needs                                   0.00             0.00         25,000.00       25,000.00          0.00%
   4100.635 Election Support Services                               0.00        3,000.00          84,341.00       81,341.00          3.56%
   4100.640 Grant Related                                     20,547.09              0.00              0.00            0.00          0.00%
   4100.650 SL (Client) County Support Services                   87.07              0.00         50,000.00       50,000.00          0.00%
   4100.750 Non-Cap Improvements                               1,012.50        22,712.00          25,000.00        2,288.00         90.85%
   4100.760 Christmas on 54th Decorations & Lights                64.34              0.00          8,000.00        8,000.00          0.00%
   4100.860 Code Enforcement Mitigation                        7,469.86              0.00         50,000.00       50,000.00          0.00%
   4100.870 Rent                                               6,817.92         1,136.32         135,000.00      133,863.68          0.84%
   4100.880 Non-Classified Expenses                                 0.00             0.00          5,000.00        5,000.00          0.00%
  Total Administration                                       510,274.12       160,040.28       1,221,141.00    1,061,100.72         13.11%
  COVID Related Expenses
   4100.243 ARPA Act Expense and Supplies                           0.00             0.00      2,631,285.00    2,631,285.00          0.00%
  Total COVID Related Expenses                                      0.00             0.00      2,631,285.00    2,631,285.00          0.00%
  Transfers
   4100.928 Contribution to General Fund                   9,775,832.82     1,633,825.43       9,445,000.00    7,811,174.57         17.30%
   4100.932 Contribution to Kearns Restricted Capital F      302,000.00             0.00               0.00            0.00          0.00%
   48450.001 Operational Transfers out                         2,828.09             0.00               0.00            0.00          0.00%
  Total Transfers                                         10,080,660.91     1,633,825.43       9,445,000.00    7,811,174.57         17.30%
 Total Expenditures:                                      10,590,935.03     1,793,865.71      13,297,426.00   11,503,560.29         13.49%
Total Change In Net Position                                 675,451.55     1,061,100.72               0.00   (1,061,100.72)         0.00%




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                 Page 3                                                  9/23/2025 11:31 AM
                                            Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                           Standard Financial Report
                                            52 Kearns Beer Tax Special Fund - 07/01/2025 to 08/31/2025
                                                      16.67% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                                  2025             2026                         Unearned/            %
                                                                Year-End           YTD             2026          Unused            Earned/
                                                                 Actual           Actual          Budget         Budget             Used
Change In Net Position
 Revenue:
  Intergovernmental revenue
   State liquor fund
     3100.580 State Liquor Fund Allotment                          61,156.89               0.00    30,000.00      30,000.00             0.00%
   Total State liquor fund                                         61,156.89               0.00    30,000.00      30,000.00             0.00%
  Total Intergovernmental revenue                                  61,156.89               0.00    30,000.00      30,000.00             0.00%
 Total Revenue:                                                    61,156.89               0.00    30,000.00      30,000.00             0.00%
 Expenditures:
  Administration
   4100.850 Beer Funds                                             61,156.89               0.00    30,000.00      30,000.00             0.00%
  Total Administration                                             61,156.89               0.00    30,000.00      30,000.00             0.00%
 Total Expenditures:                                               61,156.89               0.00    30,000.00      30,000.00             0.00%
Total Change In Net Position                                            0.00               0.00          0.00          0.00             0.00%




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                     Page 4                                                 9/23/2025 11:31 AM
                                        Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                        Standard Financial Report
                               54 City of Kearns Community Reinvestment Agency - 07/01/2025 to 08/31/2025
                                                   16.67% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                             2025            2026
                                                           Year-End          YTD
                                                            Actual          Actual
Net Position
 Assets:
  Current Assets
   Cash and cash equivalents
    10100 Cash - Zions Checking                                  510.00        1,830.00
   Total Cash and cash equivalents                               510.00        1,830.00
  Total Current Assets                                           510.00        1,830.00
 Total Assets:                                                   510.00        1,830.00
 Liabilites and Fund Equity:
  Liabilities:
   Current liabilities
    21000 Accounts Payable                                       510.00          120.00
    24000 Due to Other Funds                                     510.00        4,050.00
   Total Current liabilities                                   1,020.00        4,170.00
  Total Liabilities:                                           1,020.00        4,170.00
  Equity - Fund Balance
   29000 Unassigned Net Position (Fund Bal)                    (510.00)      (2,340.00)
  Total Equity - Fund Balance                                  (510.00)      (2,340.00)
 Total Liabilites and Fund Equity:                               510.00        1,830.00
Total Net Position                                                 0.00              0.00




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                Page 5                                      9/23/2025 11:31 AM
                                           Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                        Standard Financial Report
                               54 City of Kearns Community Reinvestment Agency - 07/01/2025 to 08/31/2025
                                                   16.67% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                             2025            2026                           Unearned/            %
                                                           Year-End          YTD             2026            Unused            Earned/
                                                            Actual          Actual          Budget           Budget             Used
Change In Net Position
 Expenditures:
  Administration
   4100.310.000 General - Attorney-Civil                         510.00        1,830.00           0.00        (1,830.00)            0.00%
  Total Administration                                           510.00        1,830.00           0.00        (1,830.00)            0.00%
 Total Expenditures:                                             510.00        1,830.00           0.00        (1,830.00)            0.00%
Total Change In Net Position                                   (510.00)      (1,830.00)           0.00         1,830.00             0.00%




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                Page 6                                                  9/23/2025 11:31 AM
                                        Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                      Standard Financial Report
                                      55 Kearns Council Designated Fund - 07/01/2025 to 08/31/2025
                                                 16.67% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                             2025             2026
                                                           Year-End           YTD
                                                            Actual           Actual
Net Position
 Assets:
  Current Assets
   Cash and cash equivalents
    10100 Cash - Zions Checking                               32,621.73    (261,634.43)
    10101 Cash - Zions CARES                                   2,828.09        2,828.09
    10200 Cash - PTIF                                        205,800.90      212,826.38
    10202 Cash - PTIF 9074 CARES                             746,187.08      749,019.44
    10750 Undeposited Receipts                                    (0.01)          (0.01)
   Total Cash and cash equivalents                           987,437.79      703,039.47
   Receivables
    12500 Due From Other Gov.                                154,431.59      194,633.26
   Total Receivables                                         154,431.59      194,633.26
  Total Current Assets                                     1,141,869.38      897,672.73
 Total Assets:                                             1,141,869.38      897,672.73
 Liabilites and Fund Equity:
  Liabilities:
   Current liabilities
    21000 Accounts Payable                                   494,288.00               0.00
   Total Current liabilities                                 494,288.00               0.00
   Deferred revenue
    23455 CARES2 Deferred Revenue                            258,120.71      258,120.71
   Total Deferred revenue                                    258,120.71      258,120.71
  Total Liabilities:                                         752,408.71      258,120.71
  Equity - Fund Balance
   29000 Unassigned Net Position (Fund Bal)                  389,460.67      639,552.02
  Total Equity - Fund Balance                                389,460.67      639,552.02
 Total Liabilites and Fund Equity:                         1,141,869.38      897,672.73
Total Net Position                                                 0.00               0.00




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                 Page 7                              9/23/2025 11:31 AM
                                           Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                      Standard Financial Report
                                      55 Kearns Council Designated Fund - 07/01/2025 to 08/31/2025
                                                 16.67% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                             2025             2026                          Unearned/            %
                                                           Year-End           YTD              2026          Unused            Earned/
                                                            Actual           Actual           Budget         Budget             Used
Change In Net Position
 Revenue:
  Taxes
   MET Taxes
    3100.111 MET-Municipal Energy                              3,072.68            0.00              0.00           0.00            0.00%
    3100.112 MET-Municipal Telecom                            55,240.50       12,000.00         60,000.00      48,000.00           20.00%
    3100.113 MET-Pacificorp/Rocky Mtn Power                  271,348.65      232,983.93        600,000.00     367,016.07           38.83%
    3100.114 MET-Questar Gas/Dominion Energy                 391,618.88       27,000.00        720,000.00     693,000.00            3.75%
   Total MET Taxes                                           721,280.71      271,983.93      1,380,000.00   1,108,016.07           19.71%
   Franchise taxes
    3100.401 Google Franchise Fee                             77,303.00               0.00     30,000.00      30,000.00             0.00%
   Total Franchise taxes                                      77,303.00               0.00     30,000.00      30,000.00             0.00%
  Total Taxes                                                798,583.71      271,983.93      1,410,000.00   1,138,016.07           19.29%
  Intergovernmental revenue
   B&C Road Fund Allotment
     3100.561 HB244 Corridor Preservation Funds                    0.00               0.00    300,000.00     300,000.00             0.00%
   Total B&C Road Fund Allotment                                   0.00               0.00    300,000.00     300,000.00             0.00%
   CARES Act
    3100.322 ARPA                                            281,576.11               0.00           0.00          0.00             0.00%
    3100.323 CARES2                                          623,691.70               0.00           0.00          0.00             0.00%
   Total CARES Act                                           905,267.81               0.00           0.00          0.00             0.00%
  Total Intergovernmental revenue                            905,267.81               0.00    300,000.00     300,000.00             0.00%
  Interest
   3600.100 Interest Earnings                                 81,946.53        3,607.42        42,000.00      38,392.58             8.59%
  Total Interest                                              81,946.53        3,607.42        42,000.00      38,392.58             8.59%
  Contributions and transfers
   3100.001 Operating transfers in                             2,828.09               0.00           0.00          0.00             0.00%
  Total Contributions and transfers                            2,828.09               0.00           0.00          0.00             0.00%
 Total Revenue:                                            1,788,626.14      275,591.35      1,752,000.00   1,476,408.65           15.73%
 Expenditures:
  Administration
   4100.420 Contributions/Special Events                           0.00        3,000.00              0.00     (3,000.00)            0.00%
  Total Administration                                             0.00        3,000.00              0.00     (3,000.00)            0.00%
  Professional services
   4100.623 Public Safety                                    493,897.66               0.00     25,000.00      25,000.00             0.00%
  Total Professional services                                493,897.66               0.00     25,000.00      25,000.00             0.00%
  COVID Related Expenses
   4100.242 CARES 2 Expense and Supplies                     623,691.70       22,500.00              0.00    (22,500.00)            0.00%
   4100.243 ARPA Act Expense and Supplies                    281,576.11            0.00              0.00           0.00            0.00%
  Total COVID Related Expenses                               905,267.81       22,500.00              0.00    (22,500.00)            0.00%
 Total Expenditures:                                       1,399,165.47       25,500.00        25,000.00        (500.00)          102.00%
Total Change In Net Position                                 389,460.67      250,091.35      1,727,000.00   1,476,908.65           14.48%




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                Page 8                                                  9/23/2025 11:31 AM
