                                  Planning and Development Services
                                  2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                  Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                  www.pwpds.slco.org




                Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission
                                    Public Meeting Agenda

                      Monday, April 8, 2019 5:30 P.M.
Location
KEARNS ATHLETIC TRAINING AND EVENT CENTER
5658 SOUTH COUGAR LANE
MEETING ROOM
(385) 468-6700
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                    BUSINESS MEETING
    1) Approval of Minutes from the March 11, 2019 meeting
    2) Good Landlord/Fit Premises Ordinance introduction and discussion
    3) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                     PUBLIC HEARINGS
30882 – (Continued from March 11, 2019) - An application to adopt a new chapter to the Kearns
Metro Zoning Ordinance to create two “public facilities” zones, the PF and PI zones, as zoning in
which public uses like parks, schools, recreation centers, civic buildings, churches, utility
buildings, and similar uses are allowed. Planner: Curtis Woodward

                                           ADJOURN




April 8, 2019                               Page 1 of 1            AGENDA – KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
                                                      Planning and Development Services
                                                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                                      www.pwpds.slco.org




                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                         KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                    Monday, March 11, 2019 5:30 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 55 minutes                                    *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 3                                         found on the State and County websites, or from Salt Lake
                                                                          County Planning & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Walton

                                                  ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                                Public     Business                                                              Public      Business
        Commissioners                                    Absent                  Planning Staff / DA
                                 Mtg         Mtg                                                                  Mtg          Mtg
        Jeff Robertson                                     x                        Wendy Gurr                      x             x
          Joy Nelson              x           x                                   Curtis Woodward                   x             x
        Jerry Wellman             x           x                                    Diana Martinez
         Bruce Walton             x           x
           Joe Hatch              x           x

                                                  BUSINESS MEETING

                                              Meeting began at – 5:32 p.m.

    1) Approval of Minutes from the January 14, 2019 meeting.
        Motion: To approve minutes from the January 14, 2019 meeting as presented.
              Motion by: Commissioner Wellman
              2nd by: Commissioner Hatch
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
    2) Other Business Items (as needed)
        No other business items to discuss.

                                              PUBLIC HEARINGS
                                          Hearings began at – 5:35 p.m.

30882 – An application to adopt a new chapter to the Kearns Metro Zoning Ordinance to create two “public
facilities” zones, the PF and PI zones, as zoning in which public uses like parks, schools, recreation centers,
civic buildings, churches, utility buildings, and similar uses are allowed. Planner: Curtis Woodward

Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services Zoning Administrator Curtis Woodward provided

Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – March 11, 2019 – Meeting Summary                                            Page 1 of 3
an analysis to the new zoning chapter.

Commissioner Walton said uses allowed B3 Solar energy systems should have its own line. Mr. Woodward
said there may be push back from the Granite School District and are in the process of working with Magna
on a site. Insisted on having a development agreement state, if and when that school went away, that site
was entitled to a certain number of residential units. Commissioner Walton asked about Chapter 19.83 and
what does it say and is it an allowed use. Mr. Woodward said it has cell sites by zone, category zones are
only allowed in public or Quasi public. Conditional use if its free standing. Commissioner Hatch asked if
it would affect any potential business owner’s resale. Mr. Woodward said if there was extra ground and
allow someone to subdivide, that would trigger a rezone application. All types of facilities are in residential
zones. Commissioner Walton said seminary buildings for Jr. Highs and are for sale right now. Mr.
Woodward said they present a quandary, spoke to Kearns Mayor as seminary building for UPD, but are
too small. Commissioner Nelson said maximum height is 35 feet and does that cause any problems with
church spires. Mr. Woodward said there is an exception under building height. Commissioner Walton asked
about maximum square footage above ground level. Mr. Woodward said 40% foot print.

Commissioner Walton motioned to open the public hearing.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

No one from the public was present to speak.

Commissioner Wellman motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Hatch seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Motion: To continue application #30882 to the April 8th meeting to allow for changes to be made as
discussed.
       Motion by: Commissioner Nelson
       2nd by: Commissioner Wellman
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


30869- Atlas Towers/Ken Bradtke is requesting approval of a Conditional Use – Monopole Cell Tower
and Equipment Building. Acreage: 1.26 acres. Location: 5408 South 5600 West. Zone: C-2. Planner:
Diana Martinez

Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services Zoning Administrator Curtis Woodward provided
an analysis of the staff report.

Commissioner Walton motioned to open the public hearing.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Ken Bradtke
Address: 3002 Bluff Street #300, Boulder, Colorado
Comments: Mr. Bradtke said they are a small Boulder based tower company. Build own, operate and lease
space. Started in early 2000’s main market was Alaska. A carrier will give them coordinates and ask if there
is a parcel to meet requirements. Willing landlord and get the height they needed. Everything is data and

Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – March 11, 2019 – Meeting Summary                       Page 2 of 3
search engines were getting smaller. Emergency crews don’t have enough to pull up on their computers.
More people start using and getting stressed on coverage and capacity. Demand has increased 236% and
over 50% of households are wireless.

Commissioner Wellman asked if the tower would be FCC licensed. Mr. Bradtke said FAA approved and
good at 64 feet. Commissioner Wellman asked if first net. Mr. Bradtke said that’s up to AT&T.
Commissioner Hatch asked access to area, would be southside of Holiday dirt access. Mr. Bradtke said he
is using existing access and construction is quick. Commissioner Hatch asked if they were bringing in more
equipment to utilize the extra pads. Mr. Bradtke said will actively try. Commissioner Hatch said there was
a retainment pond. Mr. Bradtke said environment came back clean. Only light 2% of their towers. Dull
galvanized grey color and blends in with the sky. Commissioner Nelson said this is on West Valley land.
Mr. Woodward said the little corner is still Kearns and surrounding is West Valley. UDot took control of
the property when Smith’s wanted to build.

Speaker # 2: Kearns Improvement District
Name: Cheryle Hatch
Address: 5350 West 5400 South
Comments: Ms. Hatch said that corner is prone to accidents, would it be suggested to have some type of
light because life flight comes to that area.

Commissioner Walton said to be consistent with lighting with other poles.

Commissioner Wellman motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Nelson seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Motion: To approve application #30869 with one additional condition:
      4.     Staff reviews FAA application and existing lighting requirements with 5600 West.
      Motion by: Commissioner Wellman
      2nd by: Commissioner Hatch
      Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 6:27 p.m.




Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – March 11, 2019 – Meeting Summary                   Page 3 of 3
                                                        File # 30920


                     Ordinance Summary (Introduction Only)
Public Body: Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission                  Meeting Date: April 8, 2019

Request: Ordinance amendment requiring regular inspections of residential rental properties for compliance
with basic health, safety, and land use codes.

Planner: Curtis Woodward



                                             EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Enclosed is a first draft of an ordinance to inspect and regulate residential rental units within the Kearns Metro Township to
ensure that rental properties are kept up to minimum health, safety, and livability standards and to keep rental properties
in residential neighborhoods from negatively impacting neighboring properties. This is still and early draft, and has not yet
been fully reviewed by the County Building Official, and is not ready for public hearing and input. It is being provided to the
planning commission as an informational item only.
Chapter 15.32 – RESIDENTIAL RENTALS



15.32.010 - Purpose.

     The Kearns Metro Township finds that a number of dwelling units within the Metro are occupied on
a rental tenancy basis, and that it is in the best interest of the citizens of the Metro to ensure that both
owners and tenants maintain premises in a habitable condition, abide by these standards, maintain
premises in reasonable condition and without building or zoning code violations. Pursuant to the
enactment of the Utah Fit Premises Act, § 57-22-1 et seq. U.C.A., which is not pre-empted by this chapter
or other state regulation, the Metro has the necessary police and other regulatory powers to permit
enactment of the ordinance codified in this chapter.



15.32.020 - Scope.

     This code shall apply to all rental housing units located within the Kearns Metro Township,
including manufactured homes, single family homes (including individual bedrooms within a dwelling
rented to up to four (4) unrelated persons living together in a “family” arrangement as allowed under
section 19.04.230) and multifamily units. The intent of this code is to establish base standards for rental
housing so as to prevent slum and blighted conditions and protect the health, safety and welfare of the
community. Notwithstanding the above, the following are not governed by this chapter.
     A.   Residence at a detention, medical, geriatric, educational, counseling or religious institution;
     B.   Occupancy under a contract of sale of a dwelling unit if the occupant is the purchaser;
     C.   Occupancy by a member of a fraternal or social organization in a building operated for the
          benefit of the organization;
     D.    Transient occupancy in a hotel, or motel (or lodgings subject to Utah Code Section 59-12-301);
          except that single-room occupancy units ("SRO") shall be governed by this chapter. "SRO"
          means an existing housing unit with one combined sleeping and living room of at least seventy
          square feet, but of not more than two hundred twenty square feet, where the usual tenancy or
          occupancy of the same unit by the same person or persons is for a period of longer than one
          week. Such units may include a kitchen and private bath.
     E.   Occupancy by an owner of a condominium unit.


15.32.030 - Administration.

    A. Authority. The Mayor or designee is designated as the administrator of this ordinance and may
       delegate duties of this Code to the building inspectors, code enforcement officers and other
       employees of the Metro or Municipal Services District.

    B. Personnel. The Administrator or designee is authorized to make reasonable and necessary
       inspections of rental housing units and premises to determine compliance with this chapter.




                                                      1
    C. Access. Every owner, agent, manager or tenant of a rental housing unit shall, upon reasonable
       notice, allow access to any part of such rental housing unit at all reasonable times for the purpose
       of making such inspections. If the owner, agent, manager or tenant refuses access to make an
       inspection, the Metro is authorized to obtain an inspection warrant. If complaint is made to the
       Metro of conditions in any rental unit which may be in violation of any applicable code, the
       Metro is authorized to investigate such complaint without notice.

    D. Scope. An inspector may expand the scope of an inspection to include other Metro code
       violations discovered during the inspection.

    E. Compliance. If upon inspection, violations of interior or exterior standards exist, the owner, agent
       or manager will be required to correct all violations within a reasonable period of time as
       determined by the inspector. Failure to comply with the order of the inspector may result in the
       revocation of the existing Residential Rental Certificate. In the event the rental housing unit
       becomes unoccupied, future occupancy will be prohibited until all violations have been corrected
       and the unit has been re-inspected by the Metro and deemed to be in compliance and a new
       Residential Rental Certificate issued.



15.32.040 Definitions

For purposes of this article, the following words, terms and phrases shall have the meaning respectively
ascribed to them as follows, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

        (1)     Accessory Use Areas: Are areas and buildings around a rental dwelling which provide
                space for amenities and facilities, including but not limited to pay phones, picnic areas,
                recreation areas, laundry rooms, recreation rooms, refuse collection facilities, and
                accessory storage buildings.

        (2)     Agent: Is a person authorized by the owner of a rental housing unit to make or order
                repairs or service to the unit and authorized to receive notices on behalf of the owner.

        (3)     Approved: Means in conformance with the appropriate codes and approved by the
                Administrator or designee.

        (4)     Architectural Pool: Means a constructed or excavated exterior area designed to contain a
                regular supply of water other than a swimming pool or a spa.




                                                     2
(5)    Building Official: The official designated by the Mayor to administer and enforce this
       ordinance, and such representatives as may be appointed by such official.

(6)    Change of Occupants: When a rental unit vacated and is occupied by a new tenant.

(7)    Metro: The Kearns Metro Township.

(8)    Cooperative: A Multi-family Dwelling owned and maintained by the residents. The entire
       structure and real property is under common ownership, as contrasted to a Condominium
       Dwelling where individual units are under separate individual occupant ownership.

(9)    Division: Means the Division of Planning and Development Services or its successors,
       which division is responsible for the enforcement of building, licensing, and zoning codes
       of the Kearns Metro Township.

(10)   Deterioration: Means a lowering in quality of the condition or appearance of a building,
       structure or premises characterized by holes, breaks, rot, crumbling, cracking, peeling,
       rusting or any other evidence of physical decay, neglect, damage or lack of maintenance.

(11)   Exterior Opening: Means an open or closed window, door or passage between interior and
       exterior spaces.

(12)   Failure to Comply: Means a failure, refusal, or neglect to obey an official order or comply
       with any adopted ordinance of the Kearns Metro Township.

(13)   Glazed: Means fitted with glass.

(14)   Impervious: Means incapable of being penetrated or affected by water or moisture.

(15)   Infestation: Is the presence or apparent presence of insects, rodents, vermin or noxious
       pests of a kind or in a quantity that endangers health within or around a dwelling or may
       cause structural damage to the dwelling.

(16)   Landscaping: Is the combination of elements such as trees, shrubs, ground covers, vines
       and other organic and inorganic material for the express purpose of creating an attractive
       and pleasing environment.

(17)   Lessee: A person or entity who receives the use and possession of leased property (e.g.,
       real estate) from a lessor in exchange for a payment of funds. The person to whom a lease
       is made.

(18)   Legal Entity: An association, cooperation, partnership, or individual that has legal standing
       in the eyes of the law.

(19)   Makeshift: Means not in accordance with the requirements of this code, any ordinance of
       the Metro or rules or regulations adopted thereunder, accepted practices, prevailing
       standards, design of a licensed contractor or manufacturer's recommendation.

(20)   Manager: Means any person who has charge, care or control of a rental housing unit.
                                            3
        (21)    Occupant: Means any person living in, sleeping in or possessing a rental housing unit.

        (22)    Owner: Means a person, persons or legal entity listed as the current titleholder of real
                property, as recorded in the official records of Hinds County, Mississippi.

        (23)    Parking Area: Means any area adjacent to a rental housing unit which was designed for or
                is used for the purpose of parking vehicles. This does not include landscaped, unpaved or
                yard areas.

        (24)    Proof of Ownership: A title or deed to a piece of property signed by a notary public.

        (25)    Rental Housing Unit: Means that portion of a dwelling for which payment or other
                consideration is being made to an owner, agent or manager for the use or occupancy of
                that portion as an independent living facility, excluding transient occupancy such as
                hotels and motels. It also means each apartment or each rental unit within an apartment
                complex.

        (26)    Residential Rental Certificate: A certificate issued pursuant to this ordinance by the
                Building Official to ensure that a Dwelling Unit is in compliance with the provisions of
                this ordinance. Residential Rental Certificates are valid for twelve (12) months.

        (27)    Slum-Like: Means the unsightly condition of a building, structure or premises
                characterized by deterioration or other similar conditions and the visible outdoor storage
                of junk, garbage or rubbish, regardless of the condition of other properties in the
                neighborhood.

        (28)    Sound Condition: Means free from decay or defects and in good working condition.

        (29)    Specific Lighting: Means artificial illumination which was designed and installed to
                provide adequate lighting for a specific area.

        (30)    Storage: Means placing or leaving personal property in a location for the purpose of
                preservation, seasonal or future use or disposal. No upholstered furniture may be stored
                on porches



15.32.050 – Registration

A. Registration Required. It shall be unlawful for any person and/or entity to maintain or operate any
   rental housing unit or units within the Kearns Metro Township unless such person or entity has
   registered the property and obtained a residential rental certificate pursuant to this section.

B. Registration Fee. The annual registration fee shall be seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per dwelling unit
   payable upon application for registration. A late penalty fee will be assessed in the amount of $25 per
   unit multiplied by the number of months the registration is past due. A fee of $300 will be assessed
   for failure to register a dwelling unit within ninety (90) days of expiration of annual registration fee.
   Each person or entity who operates an office within the Kearns Metro Township must also obtain a
   Business License as required by the Metro for operation of a business.
                                                       4
C. Annual Registration. Application for an annual rental housing registration shall be filed with and
   issued by the Division. The application shall be in writing, signed by the property owner, agent or
   designee and shall include the following:

    1. The name and address of the applicant;
    2. Proof of ownership must be provided if the information provided differs from county records;
    3. The location and parcel number of the property on which the rental housing unit is located;
    4. For new construction, a complete site plan of the complex showing it is in conformity with the
       requirements included within this ordinance;
    5. For new construction, plans and specifications of all buildings, improvements and facilities to be
       constructed within the rental housing complex or on the same property as the rental housing unit.
    6. Such other information as may be requested by the Administrator to determine if the proposed
       rental housing unit or complex will comply with all codes and ordinances adopted by the Kearns
       Metro Township.

D. Inspection Required. Before any residential rental certificate is issued by the Division, the applicant
   must authorize the Building Official or designee to inspect the rental housing unit or complex for
   which an application for registration has been made. The Building Official or designee may inspect
   only a portion of the rental units within a rental housing complex if the Building Official or designee
   determines an inspection of the entire complex is not needed. Every landlord who retains all utilities
   in his/her name is required to have all rental units inspected once a year. All utilities must be turned
   on at the time of the inspection in order to inspect all systems, appliances and equipment.

E. Registration Renewal. Upon application in writing for renewal of a registration issued under this
   chapter, payment of the annual registration fee, and proof of compliance with the standards of this
   chapter, the Division shall issue a residential rental certificate renewing such registration for another
   year. The Administrator may, in order to establish compliance with this chapter, inspect or cause to be
   inspected the rental housing unit or complex for which application is being made before a renewal of
   the residential rental certificate is issued.

F. Registration Transfer. Upon application in writing for transfer of a registration accompanied by an
   application with the transferee's information and payment of the transfer fee, the Division shall issue a
   transfer if the application is found to be in compliance with this chapter. A fee of $25.00 will be
   charged for transfer of any property or properties. A fee of $350 will be assessed for failure to register
   a dwelling unit within ninety (90) days of transfer of ownership.

G. Certificate Requirements. A residential rental certificate shall be required as a condition of providing
   new utility service to any rental property or as a condition of transferring service to a new owner, new
   renter or billing name.

H. Revocation. The Mayor may revoke any registration to maintain and operate a rental housing unit or
   complex when the owner or agent has failed to comply with any provisions of this ordinance. After
   such failure to comply the registration may be reissued if the circumstances leading to the failure to
   comply have been remedied and the rental housing unit or complex is being maintained and operated
   in full compliance with the law.


                                                     5
15.32.060 - Identification of owner and agents.

A. A property owner, or any person authorized to enter into a rental agreement on the owner's behalf,
   shall disclose to the tenant in writing at or before the commencement of the tenancy the name,
   address and telephone number of:
    1.   The owner and person authorized to manage the premises; and
    2.   A local person authorized to act for and on behalf of the owner for the purpose of receiving
         notices and demands, and performing the owner's obligations under this chapter and the rental
         agreement if the owner or manager reside outside of Salt Lake County.

B. A person who enters into a rental agreement and fails to comply with the requirements of this section
   becomes an agent of the owner for the purposes of:
    1.    Receipt of notices under this chapter; and
    2.    Performing the obligations of the owner under this chapter and under the rental agreement.

C. The information required to be furnished by this section shall be kept current. This section is
   enforceable against any successor owner or manager.

D. Every rental property with more than one unit rented without a written agreement shall have a notice
   posted in a conspicuous place with the name, address and telephone number of the owner or manager
   and local agent as required by subsection A above.


15.32.070 – Rental Housing Standards

All residential property for rent or lease within the Kearns Metro Township shall comply with the
property maintenance codes in effect at time of inspection, including the standards outlined in sections
15.32.080 through 15.32.100 below.



15.32.080 - Property Owner Responsibilities

A property owner shall:
    A. Maintain the structural integrity of the building, maintain floors in compliance with safe load-
       bearing requirements, and not rent the premises unless they are safe, sanitary and fit for human
       occupancy;
    B. Ensure that every rental housing unit has a kitchen area with suitable space and equipment to
       store, prepare and serve food in a sanitary manner, including:
         •   A cooking oven and range or a stove properly connected and in sound condition (which may
             be provided by the tenant if specified in the rental agreement).
         •   A refrigerator properly connected and in sound condition that is capable of maintaining a
             temperature between forty degrees (40°) and forty-five degrees (45°) Fahrenheit and has
             some capacity for storing frozen food (which may be provided by the tenant if specified in
             the rental agreement).
                                                     6
     •    Countertops, food preparation surfaces, food storage pantries and cupboards that are easily
          cleanable and free from holes, breaks or cracks that can leak, or may injure a person or may
          permit the harborage of insects and dampness that may promote the growth of bacteria.

     •    An operable sink with hot and cold running water.

C. Ensure that floor coverings that are torn or loose and located on a stairway or within three (3) feet
   of a stairway are removed or repaired to prevent tripping. Floor coverings such as carpeting, tile,
   linoleum and similar materials shall be repaired or replaced when the floor covering is severely
   deteriorated, when tears in excess of six (6) inches or tears or projections rising one-quarter inch
   or more above the floor surface in any location are present or when the condition of the floor
   covering creates an unsafe or unsanitary environment.
D. Maintain stairways, porches, walkways, exits, emergency egress and fire escapes in sound
   condition., and light and ventilation in compliance with applicable codes;
E. Provide at least one bathroom with operable sink, toilet, tub and/or shower;
F. Provide smoke detectors and fire extinguishers as required by code;
G. Maintain in good and safe working order and condition all electrical, plumbing, sanitary, heating,
   ventilating, air conditioning, and other facilities (including water heater and furnace) as required
   by applicable codes;
H. Provide and maintain appropriate garbage receptacles and arrange for timely garbage removal as
   required by code;
I.   Not interrupt or disconnect utility service;
J. Provide adequate locks to exterior doors and furnish keys to tenants as required by applicable
   codes;
K. Maintain the dwelling unit in a reasonably insulated and weather tight condition as required by
   the building and housing and Utah State Energy Conservation codes;
L. Not interfere with each tenant's peaceful enjoyment of the premises;
M. Insure that repairs, decorations, alterations, or improvements, or exhibiting the dwelling unit shall
   not unreasonably interfere with the tenants' right to quiet enjoyment of the premises.
N. Maintain exterior areas of the dwelling unit, including landscape areas, parking, sidewalks in
   good condition, free from tripping hazards, and free from the accumulation of junk, debris,
   weeds, zoning ordinance violations, or any other condition that presents a deteriorated or slum-
   like appearance.

O. Provide adequate parking as required by the zoning ordinance, including additional parking stalls
   for unrelated persons living together as a “family” in a single family dwelling as set forth in
   section 19.04.230;

P. Provide a mailbox; and
Q. Provide accessible meters for each tenant for gas and electricity, or include charges for utility
   services in the rent.




                                                    7
15.32.090 - Tenant Responsibilities

A tenant shall:
     A. Comply with all appropriate requirements of the rental agreement and applicable provisions of
        building, housing and health codes;
     B. Maintain the premises occupied in a clean and safe condition and not unreasonably burden any
        common area;
     C. Dispose of all garbage in a clean and safe manner;
     D. Maintain all plumbing fixtures in as sanitary a condition as the fixtures permit;
     E. Use all electrical, plumbing, sanitary, hearing, and other facilities and appliances in a reasonable
        manner;
     F. Not destroy, deface, damage, impair or remove any part of the premises or knowingly permit any
        person to do so;
     G. Promptly inform the property owner of any defective conditions or problems at the premises;
     H. Not interfere with the peaceful enjoyment of the residential rental unit of another renter;
     I.     Upon vacation, restore the premises to their initial condition except for reasonable wear and tear
            or conditions caused by the property owner;
     J. Be current on all payments required by the rental agreement;
     K. Not increase the number of occupants above that specified in the rental agreement without written
        permission of the owners;
     L. Not modify or paint the premises without the express permission of the property owner/agent.
     M. Dispose of oil, car batteries, and other hazardous waste materials away from the rental premises,
        and in a manner prescribed by federal and local laws; and
     N. Not require the owner to correct or remedy any condition caused by the renter, the renter's family
        or the renter's guests or invitees by inappropriate use of the property during the rental term or any
        extension of it.



15.32.100 - Duties of property owner at time of possession delivery.

A.        At the commencement of any rental of a unit the landlord shall provide to the tenant:
      1.      A written summary of this chapter and an inventory of the condition of the premises and all
              appliances and furnishings. A copy of the lease or rental agreement and rules and regulations, if
              written, shall be provided to the tenant at the time the rental agreement is entered into.
      2.      Any current notice by any utility provider to the landlord to terminate water, gas, electrical or
              other utility service to the dwelling unit, the proposed date of termination, and any current
              uncorrected deficiency list or notice from any government entity,
B.     By explicit written agreement, a property owner and a tenant may establish a procedure whereby the
      tenant notifies the property owner of needed repairs, makes those repairs and deducts the cost of the
      repairs from the rent due and owing.



                                                          8
C.   A property owner may allocate any duties to the tenant by explicit written agreement. Such
     agreement must be clear and specific, boxed, in bold type or underlined.
D.    If the property owner fails to deliver possession of the dwelling unit to the tenant as promised in the
     rental agreement, rent abates until possession is delivered and the tenant may terminate the rental
     agreement by written notice to the property owner and recover all prepaid rent and security deposits,
     as well as the greater of one hundred dollars or actual damages, and reasonable attorney's fees.



15.32.110 - Access.

     A. A tenant shall not unreasonably withhold consent to the property owner to enter into the dwelling
        unit in order to make necessary or agreed repairs, decorations, alterations, or improvements; or
        exhibit the dwelling unit to prospective purchasers, tenants or work people.
     B. A property owner may enter the dwelling unit without consent of the tenant in case of emergency.
     C. Except in case of emergency the property owner shall give the tenant at least twenty-four hours
        notice of plans to enter and may enter only between eight o'clock a.m. and eight o'clock p.m.
     D. A property owner has no other right of access except:
         1. Pursuant to court order;
         2. As set forth in the rental agreement;
         3. Unless the tenant has abandoned the premises as defined in Section 78-36-12(3), Utah Code
            Annotated, or any successor provision.
     E. If the tenant refuses to allow lawful access, the property owner may obtain injunctive relief to
        compel access, or terminate the rental agreement and commence an eviction action. In either case,
        the property owner may recover actual damages and reasonable attorney's fees.
     F. If the property owner makes an unlawful entry or makes repeated demands for entry which harass
        the tenant, the tenant may obtain injunctive relief to prevent the recurrence of the conduct or
        terminate the rental agreement and vacate the premises. In either case, the tenant may recover
        actual damages or damages equal to one month's rent and reasonable attorney's fees.



15.32.120 - Repair of specified failures.

     In the event of the failures specified below the property owner shall begin repairing the failures
within the following specified time periods after receipt of written notice of the failure delivered to the
person identified in Section 15.32.060, and complete the repairs with reasonable diligence:

                                                                                                     24
A. Inoperable toilet
                                                                                                     hours

                                                                                                     48
B. Lavatory, tub, shower or kitchen sink with inoperable drain or no hot or cold water
                                                                                                     hours




                                                      9
                                                                                                 48
C. Inoperable refrigerator or cooking range or stove
                                                                                                 hours

D. Nonfunctioning heating (during a period where heat is reasonably necessary) or electrical     24
system                                                                                           hours

                                                                                                 72
E. Inoperable electric fixture
                                                                                                 hours

                                                                                                 48
F. Broken exterior door or inoperable or missing exterior door lock
                                                                                                 hours

                                                                                                 96
G. Broken window with missing glass
                                                                                                 hours

                                                                                                 96
H. Inoperable exterior lighting
                                                                                                 hours

                                                                                                 24
I. Broken stair or balustrade
                                                                                                 hours

                                                                                                 24
J. Inoperable or missing smoke detector if required by code
                                                                                                 hours

                                                                                                 24
K. Inoperable required fire sprinkler system (if smoke detectors are not present or operating)
                                                                                                 hours

                                                                                                 96
L. Inoperable required fire sprinkler system (if smoke detectors are installed and operable)
                                                                                                 hours

                                                                                                 24
M. Broken or leaking water pipes causing an imminent threat to life, safety or health
                                                                                                 hours

                                                                                                 72
N. Other broken or leaking water pipes
                                                                                                 hours


The tenant shall grant the property owner reasonable access to perform the repairs required above.



15.32.130 - Tenant repair and deduct.



                                                    10
If the property owner fails to begin making the repairs required by Section 15.32.120 above within the
specified times, the tenant may cause the repairs to be made subject to the following provisions:
    A. Critical Repairs. If the repairs involve an inoperable toilet, lack of heat during a period for which
       heat is required, broken or leaking water pipes posing an immediate threat to life, safety or health
       or a complete lack of running water the tenant may, upon the expiration of the notice period
       specified in Section 15.32.120, cause the necessary repairs to be made.
        1. In making such repairs the tenant must use a licensed contractor if such a licensed contractor
           is required by applicable building or housing codes.
        2. If a licensed contractor is required for the work, the tenant shall make reasonable efforts to
           obtain two bids for the work and, if bids are not obtained, shall contract for the work to be
           done by someone else at a reasonable cost.
    B. Noncritical Repairs. If the required repairs are not critical repairs subject to the provisions of
       subsection A above, the tenant, after the expiration of the notice time required by Section
       15.32.120 above, shall give the property owner or agent identified in Section 15.32.060 above a
       second written notice of intent to repair and deduct. This second notice shall be either delivered
       and served personally upon the property owner or agent or sent by both certified and regular mail.
        1. The second notice shall state the nature of the problem, the date the tenant sent the first notice
           required by 15.32.120, and the intention of the tenant to cause the repairs to be done and to
           deduct the cost from the rent if the property owner does not make the repairs.
        2. The property owner shall start making the required repairs within forty-eight hours after the
           hand delivery of the second notice or by the end of the second calendar day after the date of
           mailing of the second notice.
        3. If the required repairs have not begun within the time specified in subsection (B)(2) above,
           the tenant may cause the repairs to be made.
        4. In making such repairs the tenant must use a licensed contractor if such a licensed contractor
           is required by applicable building or housing codes.
        5. If a licensed contractor is required for the work, the tenant shall make reasonable efforts to
           obtain two bids for the work, and, if bids are obtained, shall contract for the work with the
           low bidder.
        6. If a licensed contractor is not required for the work, the tenant may do the work on his or her
           own or contract for the work to be done at a reasonable cost.
    C. Deductible Amount. For any repairs made pursuant to this section, the tenant may deduct from
       future rent the actual and reasonable cost of the repairs performed up to a maximum deduction of
       four hundred dollars.
    D. Nontermination. The property owner may not terminate the tenant's tenancy for the tenant's
       deduction of rent for repairs made pursuant to this section nor may the property owner terminate
       the tenancy until the tenant's costs, not to exceed four hundred dollars, for repairs made under this
       section have been offset by deducted rent.
    E. Tenant Caused Damages. The repair and deduct provisions of this section shall not be applicable
       to any damages caused or repairs necessitated by actions of the tenant or the tenant's invited
       guests or other occupants of the dwelling unit.




                                                     11
15.32.140 - Retaliatory conduct prohibited.

A. Except as provided in this section and Section 57-22-4, U.C.A., a property owner may not terminate a
   rental agreement or bring or threaten to bring an eviction action because the tenant has in good faith:
    1. Complained of code violations at the premises to a governmental agency, elected representative
       or public official charged with responsibility for enforcement of a building, housing, health or
       similar code;
    2. Complained of a building, housing, health or similar code violation or an illegal property owner
       practice to a community organization or the news media;
    3. Sought the assistance of a community organization or the news media to remedy a code violation
       or illegal property owner practice;
    4. Requested the property owner to make repairs to the premises as required by this chapter, a
       building or health code, other regulation, or the residential rental agreement;
    5. Become a member of a tenant's union or similar organization;
    6. Testified in any court or administrative proceeding concerning the condition of the premises; or
    7. Exercised any right or remedy provided by law.


B. If the property owner violates any provision of this section, the tenant may recover the greater of one
   month's rent or actual damages, and reasonable attorney's fees.



    15.32.150 – Administration and Enforcement

    A. Commencement of Action.

    1. The Division is assigned the primary responsibility of enforcing this chapter and is granted the
       authority expressly and implicitly needed and necessary for enforcement.

    2. Nothing in this section shall preclude employees of the Division from seeking voluntary
       compliance with the provisions of this chapter or from enforcing this chapter, proactively or
       reactively, through warnings, citations, or other such devices designed to achieve compliance
       in the most efficient and effective manner under the circumstances.

    3. Any person who shall knowingly and willfully violate the terms, conditions or provisions of
       this ordinance, for violation of which no other criminal penalty is prescribed, shall be guilty of
       a Class “B” misdemeanor, and each day the violation continues thereafter shall be a separate
       offense. In addition, the provisions of this title may also be enforced by injunctions,
       mandamus, abatement, civil penalties as outlined below, or any other remedies provided by
       law.

    4. Following each inspection wherein violations are found, written notice shall be sent to the owner of
       record as shown on County records. Following the third inspection where any violations of this chapter
       are found, civil penalties of $200 per day may be assessed. At any time following the third inspection,
       a complaint may be filed in criminal court for prosecution as a class “B” misdemeanor in lieu of, or in

                                                     12
        addition to civil penalties that may have accrued.

    B. Transfer of Property after Notice.

        1. Written Assumption of Responsibility. The transfer of any or all property interest in any
            manner, including but not limited to, the sale, trade, lease, gift or assignment of any real
            property against which a citation has been issued or civil penalties accrued shall not relieve
            the parties unless the legal entity assuming interest in such property, in writing, assumes
            responsibility for compliance with the notice to comply or alleged violations and a copy of
            such writing is presented to the Metro.

        2. Criminal Violation. Any legal entity, real or statutory, who transfers the ownership interest
            in real property, against which a citation has been issued or allegations of violations have been
            filed with the court, shall be guilty of a class “B” misdemeanor unless they have obtained a
            written acceptance of responsibility for compliance with the citation or court action from the
            new owner.

C. Vacation of Tenants; Re-occupancy.

        1. Comply Even if Vacated. An owner, agent or manager served with a citation or
            enforcement proceeding for violations of section 15.32.080 of this chapter shall not be
            relieved from responsibility to comply because the tenant(s) have vacated the rental housing
            unit.

        2. Compliance Before Re-occupancy. The owner, agent or manager of a rental housing unit
            shall not lease, rent or otherwise make available for occupancy by tenants any unit until such
            unit has been inspected and a new residential rental certificate has been issued or against
            which a citation has been issued or an enforcement action has been instituted until the
            violations contained in the citation or enforcement proceeding have been corrected and a new
            residential rental certificate has been issued. The Mayor or designee may choose to forego the
            inspection of the units which historically have complied with all applicable codes and
            ordinances.


15.32.160 - Applicability of other ordinances.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, acts or omissions of property owners and tenants
may likewise be governed by other sections of the County Code of Ordinances governing health and
public safety.




                                                       13
                                                  File # 30882


              Ordinance Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission Meeting Date: April 8, 2019
Request: Enactment of a public facilities zone, which zoning designation will be used for schools, parks,
public buildings, etc.

Planner: Curtis Woodward
Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval


                                         PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The proposed ordinance will include in the Kearns Zoning Ordinance a zone specific to public uses. Currently,
Public and Quasi-public uses are allowed as conditional uses in almost every zone, which creates a disconnect
between the zone illustrated on the zoning map and the actual land use of properties occupied by parks, schools,
churches, etc. Many jurisdictions designate these types of properties as “public use” zones on the zoning map
(with corresponding zoning chapter in the ordinance). In order to make the zoning map more representative of
the actual land use, we have been asked to create a public facilities zone.


                                         EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The draft Public Facilities Zone has been modeled after a similar ordinance being used by Draper City. The text
has been amended to more closely reflect the types of uses (including potential future uses) in Kearns, but still
follows the overall layout of the Draper ordinance. Included in the Public Facilities chapter are two zones, the PF
and the PI zone. The PF zone is for public and quasi-public facilities like utility buildings, churches, civic
buildings, and cultural centers. The PI zone is primarily for public and quasi-public places where both indoor and
outdoor sports and recreational activities. There are some uses allowed in both zones (because of overarching
state and federal codes, churches and public schools, for example, are allowed in both zones). There are certain
accessory uses allowed as well, to account for things such as concession stands within recreation centers.


                                     NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
The draft ordinance is being sent to the Kearns Community Council for review. They will have an opportunity to
submit comments to the planning commission.


                                      PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
At the planning commission meeting of March 11, the ordinance was discussed, and concerns about building
height and lot coverage were expressed (as well as one typographical error pointed out). The planning
        Request: Public Facilities Ordinance                                      File #: 30882

commission, and later the metro council, directed staff to proceed with the ordinance as one project with the
zoning map amendment to apply the new zones as a separate (future) project. Amendments have been made to
the ordinance to allow for:
Additional height when buildings are set back additional distance from residential properties, and,
Allowing multiple parcels that are part of the same campus to be added together to calculate the lot area with
respect to maximum coverage.
A review of the various parcels that will be under consideration for future PF or PI zones indicates that the above
two amendments address the above concerns.



                              PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends the planning commission review and discuss the draft ordinance, and take one of the following
actions:
1. Move to recommend approval of the public facilities zone as presented to the planning commission by the
planning staff.
2. Move to recommend approval of the public facilities zone with the following amendments:
         a. ________________
         b. ________________
         (etc.)




Ordinance Summary                                                                                           Page 2 of 2
                            KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE

ORDINANCE NO. __________________                            _______________________________, 2019



AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 19 ZONING OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP CODE
OF ORDINANCES, BY ENACTING CHAPTER 19.20, ENTITLED “PUBLIC FACILITY ZONES” TO
CREATE PF AND PI ZONES FOR PUBLIC FACILITIES, INCLUDING PARKS, INSTITUTIONAL
USES, RECREATIONAL SITES, AND CIVIC BUILDINGS.

The Kearns Metro Township Council hereby ordains as follows:

SECTION I. The creation of public facilities zones is important to provide a zoning map of Kearns that
more clearly indicates land uses.

SECTION II. Chapter 19.20 “Public Facility Zones” of the Uniform Zoning Ordinance of Kearns
Metro Township, Utah is hereby enacted as follows:

Chapter 19.20 PUBLIC FACILITY ZONES


19.20.010: PURPOSE:
Public facility zones are established to provide public or quasi-public uses.
        A. The purpose of the PF zone is to provide areas for facilities owned by public and quasi-public
           entities and which utilize relatively large areas of land. This zone is intended to provide
           immediate recognition of such areas on the official zoning map.
        B. The purpose of the PI zone is to provide areas for educational institutions, municipal uses,
           and athletic facilities, whether publicly or privately owned, that host organized team sports.
           These uses would utilize relatively large areas of land and would be established for the health
           and betterment of the community at large. This zone is intended to provide immediate
           recognition of such areas on the official zoning map.


19.20.020: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any real property located in a public facility zone as shown
on the official zoning map. No building, structure or real property shall be used, and no building or
structure shall be hereafter erected, structurally or substantially altered, or enlarged except as set forth in
this chapter. Such requirements shall not be construed to prohibit or limit other applicable provisions of
this title, this code, or other laws.


19.20.030: USES ALLOWED:
A. Permitted And Conditional Uses: Permitted and conditional uses allowed within public facility zones
   shall be as set forth in in section 19.20.070, table 19.20.1 of this chapter. Permitted and conditional
   uses are indicated by a "P" or "C", respectively, in the appropriate column. Uses not permitted are
   indicated by "NP". Any permitted or conditional use not shown in section 19.20.070, table 19.20.1 of


                                                           1
     this chapter shall be prohibited unless the zoning administrator determines the use is substantially the
     same as a permitted or conditional use.
B. Accessory Uses: The permitted and conditional uses set forth in section 19.20.070, table 19.20.1 of
   this chapter shall be deemed to include accessory uses and activities that are necessarily and
   customarily associated with and incidental and subordinate to such uses.
C.
     1.   Accessory uses shall be subject to the same regulations that apply to permitted and conditional
          uses in the same zone, except as otherwise expressly provided in this title.
     2.   No accessory use, building, or structure shall be allowed on a lot or parcel unless a permitted or
          conditional use has been established.
D.
     1.   Accessory uses in public facility zones shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
          a. Cafeterias, dining halls and similar food service facilities when located within the main use
             and operated primarily for the convenience of employees, residents, clients, patients, or
             visitors to the main use.
          b. Garages and off street parking areas, subject to applicable standards of chapter 19.80, "Off-
             Street Parking Requirements."
          c. Gift shops, newsstands, and similar commercial activities operated primarily for the
             convenience of employees, residents, clients, patients, or visitors to the main use.
          d. Recreational areas and facilities.
          e. Refreshment stands and food and beverage sales located in uses involving public assembly.
          f.   Solar energy systems.
          g. Swimming pools and hot tubs.
          h. Temporary uses, subject to applicable standards of this code.


19.20.040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Development standards within public facility zones shall be as set forth in section 19.20.070, table
19.20.2 of this chapter.


19.20.050: REGULATIONS OF GENERAL APPLICABILITY:
The use and development of real property in public facility zones shall conform to regulations of general
applicability as set forth in the following chapters of this title:
A. Chapter 19.77, "Water Efficient Landscape Design and Development Standards".
B. Chapter 19.79, "Utility and Facility System Placement Regulations".
C. Chapter 19.80, "Off Street Parking Requirements".
D. Chapter 19.82, "Signs".
E. Chapter 19.83, "Wireless Telecommunications Facilities".
F. Chapter 19.84, "Conditional Uses". (when applicable)
                                                            2
19.20.060: REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC USES:
To the extent that use and development of real property includes any matter encompassed by a regulation
for a specific use as set forth in 19.04 or 19.76 of this title, such regulation shall apply in addition to the
requirements of this chapter and shall prevail over any conflicting provision of this chapter.


19.20.070: USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS TABLES:
TABLE 19.20.1
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED IN PUBLIC FACILITY ZONE


                                                                    Zones
     Use                                                            PF                 PI
     Auditorium                                                     P                  P
     Cemetery                                                       P                  NP
     Charter school                                                 P                  P
     Church or place of worship                                     C                  C
     Civic building                                                 P                  P
     Club or service organization                                   P                  NP
     Wireless telecommunication facility                            See chapter 19.83 NP
     Convalescent care facility, nursing home, residential C                           NP
         facility for elderly persons
     Correctional facility                                          NP                 NP
     Cultural service                                               P                  NP
     Golf course                                                    P                  C
     Higher education facility, public or private                   C                  C
     Hospital                                                       C                  NP
     Park                                                           P                  P
     Post office                                                    P                  NP
     Preschool                                                      C                  NP
     Private school                                                 C                  NP
     Protective service                                             C                  NP
     Public utility facility                                        P                  C
     Public school                                                  P                  P
     Reception center                                               C                  NP


                                                           3
     Recreation center, indoor                                          C                   C
     Recreation and entertainment, outdoor                              NP                  C
     Trade/vocational school                                            C                   NP




TABLE 19.20.2 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS


                                                                                  Zones
     Development Standard                                                         PF                  PI
     Lot standards:
     Minimum area                                                                 10,000 sq. ft.      5 acres
     Lot coverage, as a percent of total lot area
     Maximum lot depth (as a multiple of lot width at widest point)
                                                                                  No requirement
     Minimum lot frontage
     Minimum lot width
     Building standards:
     Maximum square footage of floor area at ground level (including
                                                                     40%                              40%
        garages) as a percentage of lot area1
     Maximum height, main buildings2                                              35 ft.              35 ft.
     Maximum height, accessory buildings                                          20 ft.              20 ft.
     Setback standards - front yard and rear yard3
                                                                                  Front: 25 feet
     Main and accessory buildings
                                                                                  Rear: 25 feet
     Barns and stables                                                            See section 19.76.240
     * Setback standards - side yard:
     Main buildings                                                               20 ft.
     Accessory buildings of 120 sq. ft. or less                                   6 ft.
     Accessory buildings greater than 120 sq. ft.                                 10 ft.


1.   Multiple parcels that are part of the same public facility “campus” may be combined in calculating the lot area.
2.   Public or semipublic buildings may be allowed additional height at a ratio of one (1) foot of additional height
     for every five (5) feet of additional setback over and above the minimum from the nearest adjoining residential
     land use, up to a maximum height of 65 feet.
3.   Pursuant to section 19.76.065, the front, side, and/or rear yard setbacks for public uses may be reduced by the
     planning commission.


                                                              4
SECTION III. Section 19.04 of the Uniform Zoning Ordinance of Kearns Metro Township, Utah is
hereby amended to add the following definitions:

19.04.153 Cultural Service

“Cultural Service” means a library, museum or similar public or registered nonprofit organizational use
displaying, preserving, and exhibiting objects of community and cultural interest in one or more of the
arts and sciences.

19.04.438 Protective Service
“Protective Service” means a facility for public safety and emergency services, including fire and police
protection services and emergency medical and ambulance services.

SECTION IV.
This ordinance shall take effect fifteen (15) days after its passage and upon at least one publication in a
newspaper published in and having general circulation in Kearns Metro Township, and if not so published
within fifteen (15) days then it shall take effect immediately upon its first publication.

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Kearns Metro Township Council has approved, passed
and adopted this ordinance this day of                     , 2019.




KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL


___________________________________
MAYOR


ATTESTED:


___________________________________
Sherrie Swensen, County Clerk
                                                         Council Member Brown voting              _
                                                         Council Member Bush voting               _
                                                         Council Member Schaeffer voting          _
                                                         Council Member Snow voting               _
                                                         Council Member Peterson voting           _


                                                        5
                                             SUMMARY OF

                       KEARNS TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO. ____________

        On the _____ day of ________________, 2019, the Metro Council of Kearns Metro Township
adopted Ordinance No. ___________, enacting Chapter 19.20, entitled “Public Facility Zones” to create
PF and PI zones for public facilities, including parks, institutional uses, recreational sites, and civic
buildings.

KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL:


                                                 By:
                                                           MAYOR

ATTEST:



Sherrie Swensen, County Clerk



                                                 Voting:

                                                           Council Member Brown voting            _
                                                           Council Member Bush voting             _
                                                           Council Member Schaeffer voting        _
                                                           Council Member Snow voting             _
                                                           Council Member Peterson voting         _


        A complete copy of Ordinance No. ______ is available in the office of the Salt Lake County

Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.




                                                         6
                                                                                                    PI

                                                                                                                        PI



                                             PI                                                     PF




                                                                      PF

                                        PF                                                          PF

                                                                                                         PI




                                             PI
                    PI




                                                                                                              PI   PF
                                                  PF                                 PI


                                                                                                         PF
                              PI   PF



          PF

                                                                                PI



                                                                                          PF



                         PF                                      PF




                                                                                               PI
                                                       PF




                                                            PI
               PF
PI



     PF                                                PI

PF




                                                                           PI
