                                  Planning and Development Services
                                  2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                  Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                  www.pwpds.slco.org




           Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission
                                    Public Meeting Agenda

                Monday, November 18, 2019 5:30 P.M.
Location
KEARNS ATHLETIC TRAINING AND EVENT CENTER
5658 SOUTH COUGAR LANE
MEETING ROOM
(385) 468-6700
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                    BUSINESS MEETING
   1) Approval of Minutes from the October 14, 2019 meeting
   2) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                     PUBLIC HEARINGS

30865 – Bach Homes (Nick Mason) is requesting a Change of Site Plan approval to add 47
additional units to the existing apartment complex. Acreage: 15.07 approx. Location: 5959 South
Cougar Lane. Zone: R-M, R-M/zc & C-2. Planner: Diana Martinez

31052 – Kearns Improvement District (KID) is requesting an approval for a one-lot subdivision.
Acreage: 0.0517 approx. Location: 6109 South Cougar Lane. Zone: C-2. Planner: Diana
Martinez

31053 – Kearns Improvement District (KID) is requesting a Conditional Use approval for a Pump
House. Acreage: 0.0517 acres. Location: 6109 South Cougar Lane. Zone: C-2. Planner: Diana
Martinez

                                           ADJOURN




November 18, 2019                           Page 1 of 1            AGENDA – KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
                                                      Planning and Development Services
                                                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                         KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                   Monday, October 14, 2019 5:30 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 58 minutes                                    *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 6                                         found on the State and County websites, or from Salt Lake
                                                                          County Planning & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Robertson

                                                ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:
                                Public     Business
        Commissioners                                    Absent                                                 Public      Business
                                 Mtg         Mtg                               Planning Staff / DA
        Jeff Robertson            x           x                                                                  Mtg          Mtg
          Joy Nelson              x           x                                   Wendy Gurr                       x            x
        Jerry Wellman             x           x                                   Max Johnson                      x            x
         Bruce Walton             x           x                                   Todd Draper                      x            x
           Joe Hatch              x           x                                   Mikala Jordan                    x            x




                                                 BUSINESS MEETING

                                              Meeting began at – 5:30 p.m.

    1) Approval of Minutes from the September 9, 2019 meeting.
        Motion: To approve minutes from the September 9, 2019 meeting as presented.
              Motion by: Commissioner Walton
              2nd by: Commissioner Hatch
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor

    2) Other Business Items (as needed)
       Commissioners discussed location and time change of their meeting. They will keep it tabled and
       discussed the option of having the agenda rearranged as needed.

                                              PUBLIC HEARINGS
                                          Hearings began at – 5:35 p.m.

30895 – (Continued from 09/09/2019 meeting) - Brian Pearson representing Liberty Homes is requesting
approval of an 87 unit Planned Unit Development and Subdivision Preliminary Plat. Acreage: 5.8 Acres.

Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – October 14, 2019 – Meeting Summary                                           Page 1 of 4
Location: 4702 West 6200 South. Zone: RM (Residential Multi-Family). Planner: Todd A. Draper AICP

The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Todd Draper provided an analysis of the staff
report.

Commissioner Wellman asked if the road is not accessible now will it ever be opened up or traffic to that
area. Mr. Draper said not accessible, it is private and would need to connect to a public road and sees
grade issues. Commissioner Wellman asked about the side walk on 6200 and will it continue or issues with
crossing. Mr. Draper said stays as is and required to put it in. Crossing with railroad is outside of their site
and larger community. Commissioner Robertson asked on the southwest corner, is the intention to fence
between the road and common area. Mr. Draper said they may ask for fencing, that would be something
they could do and talked about initially leaving open. Commissioner Nelson asked if it’s okay to walk
around on that half to get to the school. Mr. Draper said they might, but that would not be a direct route.
Commissioner Hatch said if trash pickup is by a private company. Mr. Draper said they are required to
contract with their own company.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Brian Pearson
Address: 9075 South 1300 East
Comments: Mr. Pearson said county has had the new landscaping, fencing and floor plans and they have
been improved. There are new items from the last summary. From staff recommendations, there were four
items to be worked on and they submitted. They were talking about vinyl fencing, they would do solid
fencing between the school and the railroad and pillars out in the front on 6200.

Commissioner Nelson asked during construction will there be fencing around, because kids walk through
there to get to school. Mr. Pearson said he hasn’t thought about that. Commissioner Nelson asked if there
will be heavy trucks on the east street. Mr. Pearson said will try to use the site for staging and try not to
use the roads. Commissioner Nelson asked about common area towards 6200, is it going to be an area kids
could get in to and distracted. Mr. Pearson said it is more private area, not intended to put gates to make
private, will be fencing but not gates. Commissioner Wellman asked if there would be an office. Mr. Pearson
said no clubhouse or office.

Commissioner Wellman motioned to open the public hearing, Commissioner Walton seconded that motion.

Speaker # 2: Kearns Community Council
Name: Roger Snow
Address: 5977 South Parkwood Drive
Comments: Mr. Snow asked from original land owner dealt with, has the density changed, fourteen per
acre. Asked if the traffic study was done during the school year and the second one during school. Favorable
recommendation.

Speaker # 3: Liberty Homes Consultant
Name: Dave Tolman
Address: 3813 Highland Court
Comments: Mr. Tolman said he met with Entheos and Blackman. Traffic of children and cutting through
vacant property is a liability. They will put the fence up so the kids can’t access and be careful in dealing
with the school children. Make sure kids moving out to the sidewalk.



Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – October 14, 2019 – Meeting Summary                      Page 2 of 4
Commissioner Walton asked if any discussion of parents using the new streets as drop offs. Mr. Tolman
said a challenge because a private community and people will use the old system and new system.
Commissioner Nelson said afterschool events and parents maybe wanting to park there, not enough
parking. Mr. Tolman said people will find a parking spot and they don’t have a problem continuing with
that. Commissioner Hatch said each unit has its own garage and, alleyway and front loader.

Commissioner Walton motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Wellman seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding recommendations and requirements.

Motion: To recommend application #30895 to the Land Use Hearing Officer for approval for solid fence.
      Motion by: Commissioner Walton
      2nd by: Commissioner Wellman
      Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor

Motion: To approve application #30895 conditional use with staff recommendations and one additional
condition:
       5. Recommend consideration of a variance on solid vinyl fence on north and west sides of the
       property.
       Motion by: Commissioner Walton
       2nd by: Commissioner Wellman
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor


31049 – MSD Planning Staff is seeking public input as well as discussion and/or a recommendation
regarding the Kearns Housing Element, which will become a component of the Kearns Metro Township
General Plan. Planner: Max Johnson, AICP

The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Long Range Planner Mikala Jordan provided an
analysis of the Housing Element component of the general plan.

Mr. Johnson introduced Mikala Jordan.

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding the resolution, recommendation and open period.
Top three E, C, and L for Kearns Metro Township. Landlord programs, and purpose of the general plan.

Commissioner Wellman motioned to open the public hearing, Commissioner Hatch seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Kearns Community Council
Name: Roger Snow
Address: 5977 South Parkwood Drive
Comments: Mr. Snow said Kearns Community Council was not aware of the meeting. Contingency to be
included. General plan was 2015, and no general plan to put this on. Time to take this to the community
council and go over it with them.

Commissioner Walton motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Wellman seconded that motion.

Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – October 14, 2019 – Meeting Summary               Page 3 of 4
                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Motion: To recommend approval of file #31049 to the Kearns Metro Township Council in agreement with
findings of Menu items B, C, E, F, G, and L from the 2019 Senate Bill 34 with the following changes:
    1. Elimination of “rent-control.”
    2. Addition of specific action pieces that will go into writing an ADU Ordinance, such as considering
       the type of ADUs that Kearns residents desire for their community.
    3. Addition of background information for interested residents. Information on ADUs, Good
       Landlord Programs, Short-term Rentals, and Zoning were provided.
    4. Addition of example ordinances for ADUs and Good Landlord Programs.
    5. Addition of resources list which includes government websites and housing non-profit websites,
       among others.
    6. Addition of methods section, in which the calculations for housing availability and need are
       depicted.

        Motion by: Commissioner Hatch
        2nd by: Commissioner Walton
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor


                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 6:28 p.m.




Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – October 14, 2019 – Meeting Summary                Page 4 of 4
                                                       File #30865


                              Change of Site Plan Approval
                             Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date: November 18, 2019
Parcel ID: 21-18-351-011-0000
Current Zone: R-M, R-M/zc and C-2
Property Address: 5959 So. Cougar Lane
Request: Increase density by adding 45 additional multifamily, two-family, and four-family units to existing
apartment complex.
Applicant Name: Bach Homes (Nick Mason)

Planner: Diana Martinez
Planning Staff Recommendation: Denial


                                            PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant is requesting approval to add 45 additional units in multifamily, single-family, two-family, and four-family
dwellings to the existing apartment complex, Carrington Square. The entire Carrington Square Apartment complex
currently has 256 units entirely within multi-family dwellings. Carrington Square sits on approximately 15.07 acres and has
a current average density of approximately 17 units per acre across three phases. Following the addition of 45 units, the
density would be almost 20 units per acre on average. The proposed units are only in Phase 1 and Phase 3, which are
already dense.

                                            EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
History:
          Bach homes first made application for the proposed Carrington Square apartment complex in December of 1994.
At that time, they proposed 168 units.
          In February of 1995, over 371 residents signed a petition in opposition to the apartment complex being developed.
Much of the opposition to the project was due to concern for the traffic and parking issues in that area. At that time,
Cougar Lane held the Oquirrh Park, single-family homes and the Kearns High School and no high-density development. The
residents in the area felt that the traffic between 5415 South and 6200 South along Cougar lane was already congested and
the traffic would be intolerable if the apartment complex with that many proposed units were approved. There was also
concern that this area was a fox habitat that need to be preserved. The County Commission ultimately approved Phase 1
for 144 units in 1996.
          In January of 1998, the General Plan for that area was amended to allow for high density residential and office
uses. At the same time, Bach Homes made an application to rezone the middle section of the parcel from M-1
(Manufacturing) to R-M. Bach Homes also made application for a phase two consisting of 120 apartment units. When the
rezone application went to the Planning Commission, the Planning Commission voted to approve the zoning as an R-M/zc
(High density Residential with zoning conditions). One of the zoning conditions placed on the zone change was a density
         Request: Change of Site Plan Approval                                   File #: 30865

restriction of 15 units per acre, affecting only Phase 2. Due to this condition the approval for Phase 2 dropped to 96 units
across 6.46 acres, or 14.87 units per acre.
          The applicant came back in early 2000 for a third phase consisting of two buildings in the southern area of the
property, giving the applicant an additional 16 units in the complex sitting on just over one acre. The zoning on that area of
the parcel is C-2 (Commercial).
          As discussed in greater detail below, the application violates the density requirements of the Kearns Metro
Township Code for planned unit developments. Accordingly, Sections 19.44.110 and 19.62.130 of the Code require the
Planning Commission to deny the application.

                              SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
This property is located on the east side of Cougar Lane, between the major arterial roads 5415 South and 6200 South.

                                    VIOLATION OF ZONING DENSITIES
         Sections 19.44.110 and 19.62.130 of the Kearns Metro Township Code require the Planning Commission to
determine the “allowable density for planned unit developments, multiple dwelling, and dwelling groups….on a case by
case basis, taking into account…recommendations of [applicable] agencies; site constrains; compatibility with nearby land
uses; and the provisions of the applicable general plan.” Notwithstanding this case-by-case analysis, these ordinances
further state that the planning commission “shall not approve a planned unit development with a density higher than the
following:”

         •        Single-family dwellings    –        7.0 units per acre;
         •        Two-family dwellings       –        12.0 units per acre;
         •        Four-family dwellings      –        18.0 units per acre; and
         •        Multi-family dwellings     –        25.0 units per acre.

         Importantly, the Kearns Metro Township Code does not provide an exception to these requirements for
developments that involve different types of structures. Therefore, Sections 19.44.110 and 19.62.130 prohibit the approval
of the above dwelling types in developments where the density exceeds the applicable limit for each type of dwelling,
regardless of whether the development includes different types of structures or not.
         Applying these maximum allowable densities depends on the type of dwelling involved. A dwelling must also share
a supporting wall and have a continuous roof. See Kearns Metro Code Sections 19.04.085, 19.04.185, 19.04.195, 19.04.200,
19.04.205, and 19.04.210.
         Accordingly, Buildings A, D, and E, in Phase 1, qualify as four-family dwellings under Section 19.04.185 because
they are single buildings “under a continuous roof containing four dwelling units completely separated by either (1)
common interior walls, where the units are side by side; or (2) common interior floors, where the units are one above the
other.” The proposed density of Phase 1 is 24.17. Taking the maximum density requirement of 18 units per acre for four-
family dwellings, each of these buildings exceeds the threshold maximum density and cannot be approved by the planning
commission.
         Building B, in Phase 1, is a two-family dwelling under Section 19.04.210 because it is “a single building under a
continuous roof containing two dwelling units completely separated by either (1) common interior walls, where the units
are side by side; or (2) common interior floors, where the units are one above the other.” As such Building B cannot be
approved because the proposed density of 24.17 exceeds the threshold maximum density for a two-family dwelling of 12
units per acre.
         Building C in Phase 1 and Building F in Phase 3 qualify as multi-family dwellings under Section 19.04.195 because
they are “building[s] arranged or designed to be occupied by more than four families.” The proposed densities for each,
24.17 and 22.18, respectively, are within the maximum density threshold for a multi-family dwelling of 25 units per acre.
The maximum allowable density, however, is not the same as the “allowable density” under Sections 19.44.110 and
19.62.130, which require a case-by-case analysis to determine the appropriate density for the site. As discussed in greater
detail below, the maximum allowable density of 25.0 units per acre is not appropriate for this site and the “allowable”
density is likely to be close to the currently approved densities for the site or close thereto.




Zoning Density Summary                                                                                             Page 2 of 5
         Request: Change of Site Plan Approval                                 File #: 30865



Summary:
 Building                                  Threshold Maximum Density 1                Proposed Density
 A, D, E                                   18.0 (four-family dwelling)                24.17
 B                                         12.0 (two-family dwelling)                 24.17
 C                                         25.0 (multi-family dwelling)               24.17
                                           19.1 (current density)
    F                                      25.0 (multi-family dwelling)               22.88
                                           16.67 (current density)



                                     GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The current Kearns Township General Plan, which was adopted on August 11, 2009, after all three phases of the site were
developed. The general plan identifies this property on its map in a blue color. A “blue area” is one that has limited
potential for the absorption of growth and is likely to experience only minor changes in overall character over time. The
level of stability of the blue area is defined as follows:
          1- Subtle changes in land use may occur. Overall, land uses in the area/corridor will exhibit less diversity and less
               intensity. Changes will be limited to a small number of dispersed sites, leaving the majority of the
               area/corridor unchanged.
          2- Improvements may occur which subtly alter the appearance, economics, or sustainability of the area/corridor.
               Most improvements will consist of individual projects and may not require coordination with parcels beyond
               their immediate vicinity.
          3- Mobility networks are less formalized and will remain largely as built, but minor changes may occur. Public
               transit typically will have no dedicated right of way.

The proposed density increase is inconsistent with the General Plan, which is an express consideration of Section
19.44.110 and 19.62.130. A change in density of nearly 18% is significant and is not a “subtle change in land use” as
stated in the General Plan. As discussed below, mitigation of the traffic impacts may also “require coordination with
parcels beyond (the project’s) immediate vicinity” which is also inconsistent with the General Plan. In short, even if each
of the proposed dwellings qualified as a multi-family dwelling with a maximum allowable density of 25.0 per acre, the
case-by-case analysis required by Sections 19.44.110 and 19.62.130 shows that the maximum allowable limits are not
appropriate for this site and are inconsistent with the General Plan. Instead, for an increase in density to be consistent
with the general plan and “allowable” under Sections 19.44.110 and 19.62.130, such increase must be subtle and can
only represent a minor increase above the current density levels for the property.



                           ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
         Notably, the determination of whether the application satisfies the applicable density requirements is not a
“conditional use permit” consideration. Instead, it is a threshold question that the planning commission must address first
before proceeding to other aspects of the application, including whether reasonable conditions can be imposed to mitigate
reasonably anticipated detrimental effects under Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-507. Accordingly, the Planning Commission
cannot approve an application that includes buildings A, B, D, and E. As discussed below, the maximum density of 25.0 units
per acre is not appropriate for buildings C and F and the “allowable” density is likely to be closer to current density levels.

         Nevertheless, additional concerns exist beyond the application’s proposed density, including anticipated traffic
impacts. The following sections discuss these concerns in greater detail to inform the planning commission and applicant of


1
 Based on undemonstrated assumptions that each of the “buildings” is actually a single building sharing supporting walls
and a continuous roof as required by Kearns Metro Code.


Zoning Density Summary                                                                                             Page 3 of 5
         Request: Change of Site Plan Approval                               File #: 30865

these concerns and potential conditions that will be required pursuant to Utah Code Section §10-9a-507 if the density of
the proposed project is reduced to comply with the above requirements and the general plan. These include:

             •    Increased traffic that will be added to Cougar Lane and the surrounding roadways.
             •    Accessibility by the Fire Department in the case of a fire emergency to the proposed buildings (see fire
                  comments on separate page below).
             •    Reduction in open space. Required open space is 50%. Applicant is only showing 45%.

                                        NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
Notices have been sent out to the property owners within 300’. There has been no neighborhood response.



                                    REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE
AGENCY: United Fire Authority -Approved with conditions                DATE: 09/5/19
RECOMMENDATON: See attached letter from UFA

AGENCY: County Transportation Engineer -Not Approved                   DATE: 8/27/19
RECOMMENDATON: “The recommendation of dual-left turn lanes be installed on the WB approach of the 6200 s/4800 w.
intersection when funding becomes available provides 5 seconds less of delay. The cost of this project doesn’t provide
significant advantage’s in completing. The Traffic engineer should provide other solutions that may be more beneficial
including updating signal timing along 6200 s. and Cougar Lane (4800 w.)”.

** Revised Traffic Impact Study (TIS) incorporated the traffic counts while the High School was in session for comparison.
No new or revised recommendation has been given with this revised TIS. County Transportation Engineer’s review still
stands as not approved.

        *County Transportation Engineers will be at the Nov. 18th Planning Commission meeting to give additional
information on this application.

                                       PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS a

Issues to discuss regarding this application:
    • The proposed buildings A, B, D, and E violate the maximum density for their respective building types of, generally,
         two-family dwellings or four-family dwellings. The planning commission is prohibited from approving dwellings in
         excess of maximum density for the building type.
    • Proposed buildings C and D are within the maximum allowable density but the case-by-case analysis required by
         Sections 19.44.110 and 19.62.130 show that the maximum limits are not suitable for the Property.
    • The Carrington Square Apartment Complex currently has adequate recreational facilities for the existing density.
    • The proposed 45 additional units will result in buildings replacing a significant amount of the existing open space in
         phase one and phase three.
    • The traffic along Cougar Lane, 5415 So., and 6200 So. could be increased due to the proposed density.
    • The accessibility to the buildings by the fire department has been questionable.
    • If the proposed additional density was reduced by excluding some buildings, a reduction to the traffic impact on
         the surrounding roadways may occur.
    • Applicant is only showing a 45% open space amount. The requirement for a dwelling group is 50%.




Zoning Density Summary                                                                                            Page 4 of 5
         Request: Change of Site Plan Approval                                  File #: 30865



                    PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION AND SUMMARY
Planning Staff recommends Denial of the conditional use request for an additional 45 units.

         The application, as proposed, requests a density that exceeds the maximum allowable limits in the Kearns Metro
Township Code. Pursuant to Sections 19.44.110 and 19.62.130, the Planning Commission must deny the application on this
basis alone.

         Even if the proposed density did comply with the maximum limits in Sections 19.44.110 and 19.62.130, the
“allowable” density is not necessarily the same as the maximum allowable limits. Instead, the “allowable” density must be
determined on a case-by-case basis. Here, the maximum allowable densities in Section 18.44.110 and 19.62.130 are not
appropriate for the site given the findings of the Fire Department and the transportation engineers, the loss in open space,
and the requirements of the General Plan, which only contemplates a “subtle change in land use.” In addition, with the
proposal of buildings C and F, much of the open space in Carrington Square will be taken out. Open space requirements for
dwelling groups is 50%. With buildings F and C it will be at 45%,

         Additionally, the site is already developed and it is possible that the current density of the site, or a level close
thereto, may be the maximum “allowable” limit. The density for each phase of this property was considered when each
phase was developed. These prior approvals authorized densities that were far less than the maximum allowable limits or
the density levels applicant is requesting now. This is further illustrated by the General Plan, which was adopted after the
Property was developed and found that the area has limited potential for the absorption of growth. In short, any increase
in density above current levels should consistent with the prior approvals for the Property, and the General Plan, which
only contemplates “subtle” changes.

         The density analysis that Sections 19.62.130 and 19.44.110 require is a separate threshold analysis that is separate
and apart from the conditional use process, which means that no conditions may be imposed to mitigate density above
those maximum limits described for each building-type. Nevertheless, in reviewing this application, staff has identified the
following impacts, which will need to be mitigated through reasonable conditions for any increase above the current
density for the site. Importantly, Section 19.84.060 states that Planning Commission must find that any development of the
site conforms to these standards “prior to approval.”

    1.   Section 19.84.060(C) states: “The proposed use and site development plan shall not present a serious traffic
         hazard due to poor site design or to anticipated traffic increases on the nearby road system which exceed the
         amounts called for under the county transportation master plan.” The applicant has not offered a reasonable or
         advantageous recommendation to help elevate the traffic congestion on Cougar Lane and the connecting
         roadways.

    2.   Section 19.84.060(D & E) state: “The proposed use and site development plan shall not pose a serious threat to the
         safety of persons who will work on, reside on, or visit the property nor pose a serious threat to the safety of
         residents or properties in the vicinity by failure to adequately address the following issues: fire safety….” The
         proposed use and site development plan shall not adversely impact properties in the vicinity of the site through
         lack of compatibility with nearby buildings in terms of size, scale, height, or noncompliance with community
         general plan standards.” The Fire Department has stated that the proposed Building “C”’s location with its
         proximity to buildings 3,4, and 5 and without direct emergency access presents serious life safety issues. The
         applicant has not provided Planning Staff or the Fire Department building elevations to show the proposed height.
         The applicant has only provided approximate heights of the building eaves. And therefore, the fire department
         has only been able to give a conceptual acceptance of the applicant’s proposal. As the fire department has noted,
         it cannot commit to giving a final approval at this point and has stated that the “technical (final) approval is
         dependent…on the plans he submits to be approved.”




Zoning Density Summary                                                                                              Page 5 of 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (6) 1-BED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS
SS

     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                 SS

                            SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                       SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS
                                                 SS
                                                                                                M
                                                                                                    C OM
                                                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                   M
                                                                                                             SS                COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                             M
                                                                                                                                            SS            COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                           SS               COM                      7.48'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W 52               "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             °16'21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S 19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M
                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS         COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                 DETENTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS         COM

                                                                                                                                   POND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS     COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS               COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11650 South State Street,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             18.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS        COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Suite 300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M
          SS
          SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD                                                              SS               COM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Draper, Utah 84020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MM
                                                                                                                                            A                                                                                                                                                                    B
                                                                                                                                                                                       3-STORY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD                                                                           M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD                                                                                                                                                       COM
                      SS
                      SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (801) 727-9500




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                   (4) 2-BED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            M
                                 SS
                                 SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3-STORY                                                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   www.bachhomes.net




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MM
                                            SS
                                            SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD                                               COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (2)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3-STORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M
                                                          SS
                                                          SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                           SD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2-BED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M
                                                                                                                                            W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COM
                                                                                                    SS
                                                                                                    SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M
                                                                                                                                                                          W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                    SS           SD
                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SILVER FOX DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                              GAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M
                                                                                                                                                              SS                                     W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COM
                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AGE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  #2
                                                                                                                                                                                                SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W                                  SD                                                                                                              CO
                                                                                                                                                      W                                     W                   W                                         W                   W                             W                    W                           W                          W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W                                     SD                                                                                                      MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                  Y D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                  H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS                         COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COMM                  COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS                    GAS                                                                                W                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                             COMM                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMM                                     GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COMM                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COMM                     GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COMM                      GAS                        GAS            UGP               COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UGP                                                                                                                           SD       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UGP                  UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R28.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS GAS COMSS                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W                                                                                                                     COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS                     SS                                  UGP                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THIS PLAN IS THE PROPERTY OF BACH HOMES AND SHALL NOT BE DUPLICATED OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COMW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BACH HOMES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M
                                                                                                                                                                        UGPCOMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAUGP                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UGP GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COM                                   M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COM
                                                                                                                                                                          GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M
                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GA                                                                             SD                                                                                            COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      34.8'
                                                                                                                                                                                    G                                                                                                                                                     G                                        SS                                                                                                                                       S M                                                                                                                                        GAR                                             M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GCAOUMGPG                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                      3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AN APARTMENT COMMUNITY BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                G                       E



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MM
                                                                                                                                                                                UGPCOMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               #3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     USED AS THE BASIS FOR ANY NEW PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (24) 2-BED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                        E                                                                                                                                                   E                                                                                  SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COM
                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COPYRIGHT 2007 BACH HOMES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD                                                                                                                             COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3-STORY
                                                                                                                                                                            UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                   G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S                                                                                                                                                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                         COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD                                                                                                                         COM             711.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           °29'38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S 19




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                        GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W                            SD                                                                                                                                 COM
                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W                                 SD                                                                                                                    M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                       P
                                                                                                                                                                                                    UG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W                       SD                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (12) 1-BED

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C
                                                                                                                                                                                                           G     E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                           UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                           GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS                  GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD                                                                                                                        MM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CO
                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GARAGE #6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS
                                                                                                                                                                        COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (12) 2-BED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                         SILVER FOX DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD                                                                                                                COM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SILV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD                                                                                              M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ER F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          U GP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            #4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CO                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                G
                                                                                                                                                                           UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M
                                                                                                                                                                           GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P                                                                                                                                                                                                              COM
                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EM
                                                                                                                                                                        COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COM                                                                                                                W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DRIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD                                                                                                 M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COUMGAPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (4) 2-BED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD                                                                                                 M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (12) 1-BED                                                                                                                                                                               3-STORY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                           UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GPM                                                                                                                 SD                                                                                                MM
                                                                                                                                                                           GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CUOM                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CO
                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (12) 2-BED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                        COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                   W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COUMGAPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GPM                                                                                                  SD                                                                                                    MM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3-STORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CUOM                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GPM                                                                                                                                                                                                       M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CUOM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AGE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M
                                                                                                                                                                           UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E               G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GPM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             #5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G
                                                                                                                                                                           GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UGP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CUOM                                                                                                                                                                                                            COM
                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                           (24) 3-BED
                                                                                                                                                                        COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COMMGAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COUMGAPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD                                                                                                       M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GPM                                                                                                                                                                                                        COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CUOM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PLAYGROUND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G              E                  G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (24) 1-BED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS                         GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD                                                                                               M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GPM                                                                                                                                                                                       M             COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GARAGE #7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CUOM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1400 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD                                                                                     M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GPM
                                                                                                                                                                           UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COM
                                                                                                                                                                           GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CUOM                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M
                                                                                                                                                                        COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMMGAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GP M                                                                                                                                                                                                 M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COM
                                                                                                                                                      W                                                                                                                                                 LAWN AREA                                                                                 3-STORY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (12) 2-BED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CUOM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            M                                                                                                         M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M                                                                            M                                                                                                                   COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CO
                                                                                                                                                                                   W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FOR SPORTS:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (12) 3-BED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Y D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P                         PM
                                                                                                                                                                           UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COM
                                                                                                                                                                           GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UG                                                                     MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UO                                                                                                                                                G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COMM
                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13,000 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CO
                                                                                                                                                                        COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMMGAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3-STORY                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P            BASKETBALL:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W                                                                                                                                                                       GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PICNIC AREA:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1600 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                           UGP
                                                                                                                                                                           GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UG
                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3-STORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,000 SF
                                                                                                                                                                        COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VOLLEYBALL:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                           3-STORY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS                                                                                      G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                    S 89°57'14" E 751.20'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1800 SF (NOT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G                                      G
                                                                                                                                                                                                     GGAS            E                           G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GASG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                    UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (24) 3-BED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P                                               S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                        UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INCLUDED IN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UG
                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                    GUGP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       THORNCREST WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E                               G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS                 GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CALC)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G                            E                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PLAYGROUND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (8) 3-BED TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LAWN AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                        COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1400 SF SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                        UGP
                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FOR SPORTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS                                                                                                                                       (12) 2-BED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GARAGE #8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14,000 SF                                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                        COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (12) 1-BED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                        UGP
                                                                                                                                                                        GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2-STORY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAWING
                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                          W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                    W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (4) 2-BED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E                  G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SWIMMING POOL:                                                                                                                                                                                    3-STORY                                                                                                                               3-STORY                                                                          GAS                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3-STORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3-STORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                        COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                        UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UG
                                                                                                                                                                        GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA
                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         800 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                           (24) 2-BED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G                  E              G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UGP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SWIMMING POOL:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UGP
                                                                                                                                                                        COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              450 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3-STORY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                        UGP
                                                                                                                                                                        GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (7)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GARAGE #9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UGP GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (12) 2-BED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G                                                                                             G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E                                 G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2-BED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS
                                                                                                                                                          W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                                                                                   W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (12) 3-BED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E                                                                                                                                                                                          E
                                                                                                                                                                        COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N 89°55'59" W 301.20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (12) 1-BED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                        UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FITNESS
                                                                                                                                                                        GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UGP
                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3-STORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GASP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (12) 2-BED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CLUBHOUSE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G                                                                                                                                                                                          G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3-STORY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UGP                   UGP                        UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                        COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                        UGP
                                                                                                                                                                        GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                           3-STORY
                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (4) 3-BED TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                      G              E                               G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UGP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UGP                       UGP                  UGP                 UGP                   UGP                       UGP                  UGP                    UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UGP                                    UGP                      UGP                     UGP                                                               UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (4) 4-BED TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UGP                        UGP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                      UGP                         UGP                                                                                                                                         UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UGP                        UGP                           UGP                           UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COMM                                                                                                                                                                                 UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                    COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS                    GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS                         GAS                       GAS                      GAS              GAS                        GAS                           GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Y D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8.0'
                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                              Y D
                                                                                                                                                              H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FITNESS CENTER:                                    W                         W                                 W                              W                                      W                         W                                       W                          W                W                    W                      W                       W                        W                       W                   W                        W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         THORNCREST WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W                    W                  W                             W                                W                      W                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMMUNITY CENTER:
                                                                                                                                                          W                                     W                    W                                         W                  W                                   W                          W                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1300 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       THORNCREST WAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2-STORY                                                                            45'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3000 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .052
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Y D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UGP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UGP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          45'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS               GAS                                         GAS           GAS   GAS   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N 00°32'00" W 1247.02'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W                  W                  W                  W                 W              W            W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Y D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W                       W                           W                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W                             W                     W                        W                                    W                          W                         W                   W                    W                     W                         W                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W                         W                     W                          W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Y D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W                       W                      W                    W                           W                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W                                         W                      W                          W                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS                 SS              SS                 SS           SS                   SS                                        SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS
                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                 W           W
W    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS                     SS                   SS                  SS                    SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS               SS                             SS                            SS                         SS                        SS                  SS                      SS                    SS                        SS                                 SS                          SS                                     SS                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KID PUMP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                          SS                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  STATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                                                                                     S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O
                                                                                                                 SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAWN:                         PG     131211
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS              GAS                                          GAS           GAS   GAS   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS                GAS                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REVISION: -
                                                                                                                 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                         D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS                            SS                            SS                       SS                      SS                     SS                    SS                  SS                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS                      SS                     SS                       SS
               GAS         GAS        GAS        GAS            GAS                                              GAS                             GAS                               GAS                         GAS                                       GAS              GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS                      GAS                         GAS                    GAS                   GAS               GAS                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS                    GAS                 GAS                 GAS                   GAS                       GAS                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS                       GAS                       GAS                     GAS                                        GAS                  GAS                    GAS                     GAS                                       GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS                 GAS                           GAS                              GAS                   GAS                        GAS                GAS                       GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS                          GAS                        GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                               SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CARRINGTON SQUARE APARTMENTS - PROPOSED ADDITION - KEARNS, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONCEPTUAL DESIGN - NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SCALE: N.T.S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHEET NO.
Carrington Square
       Traffic Impact Study




             Kearns, Utah
                September 10, 2019
                         UT19-1515



 1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043   p 801.766.4343
                   www.halesengineering.com
                                           EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

This study addresses the traffic impacts associated with the proposed addition to the Carrington
Square development located in Kearns, Utah. The development is located on the east side of
4800 West between 5905 South and 6110 South.

Included within the analyses for this study are the traffic operations and recommended mitigation
measures for existing conditions and plus project conditions (conditions after development of the
proposed project) at key intersections and roadways near the site. Future 2024 conditions were
also analyzed.

The evening peak hour level of service (LOS) was computed for each study intersection. The
results of this analysis are shown in Table ES-1. Recommended storage lengths are shown in
Table ES-2.

                                               TABLE ES-1
                                     LOS Analysis - Evening Peak Hour
                                      Kearns - Carrington Square TIS
                                                                Level of Service (Sec/Veh)1
                                           Existing (2019)                                   Future (2024)
        Intersection
                                                                                              Mitigated
                                   Background         Plus Project        Background                             Plus Project
                                                                                             Background

 5905 South / 4800 West           B (14.9) / WB B (15.0) / WB C (15.6) / WB C (15.6) / WB C (16.1) / WB

  Silver Fox Drive / 4800
                                   A (9.7) / WB       B (12.0) / WB B (11.3) / WB B (12.1) / WB B (12.2) / WB
           West
   6010 South & South
                                  C (24.2) / WB D (25.4) / WB D (28.9) / WB                  D (28.9) / EB      D (31.3) / WB
   Access / 4800 West

 6110 South / 4800 West            B (10.9) / EB      B (12.0) / EB       C (17.5) / EB      B (13.8) / EB       C (18.0) / EB

 6200 South / 4800 West               D (36.2)           D (36.9)            D (39.9)           C (34.6)            C (34.7)

1. Intersection LOS and delay (seconds/vehicle) values represent the overall intersection average for roundabout, signalized, all-
w ay stop controlled intersections and the w orst approach for all other unsignalized intersections.

Source: Hales Engineering, August 2019




Kearns – Carrington Square Traffic Impact Study                                                                                      i
                                        TABLE ES-2
                               Recommended Storage Lengths
                               Kearns - Carrington Square TIS
                                                        Storage Length (feet)
        Intersection             Northbound       Southbound          Eastbound      Westbound
                                 LT       RT      LT        RT       LT         RT   LT       RT

   6200 South / 4800 West       125       150     300       225      225        -    250     100


Source: Hales Engineering, August 2019


SUMMARY OF KEY FINDINGS/RECOMMENDATIONS

The following is a summary of key findings and recommendations:
        • Hales Engineering gathered data at the 6200 South / 4800 West intersection on
           September 5, 2019 (with school being in session) to compare with the data from July
           30, 2019 (without school being in session). The comparison showed that the July 2019
           evening peak hour traffic was 488 vehicles higher than the September 2019 traffic.
           Therefore, the July 2019 analysis had a higher level of entering traffic during the
           evening peak hour, and creates a “worst case,” evaluation period, as completed within
           this study.
        • All study intersections are currently operating at an acceptable LOS during the evening
           peak hour in existing (2019) background conditions.
              o A 95th percentile queue length of approximately 450 feet is anticipated on the
                  westbound approach of the 6200 South / 4800 West intersection.
              o Though the westbound queue at the 6200 South / 4800 West intersection is
                  anticipated to overlap the railroad crossing, the railroad crossing has sufficient
                  signage and signals to indicate to drivers to not stop on the tracks.
        • The development will consist of 55 new multi-family residential units.
        • All study intersections are anticipated to operate at an acceptable LOS during the
           evening peak hour with project traffic added.
        • All study intersections are anticipated to operate at an acceptable LOS during the
           evening peak hour in future (2024) background conditions.
              o 95th percentile queue lengths of approximately 550 feet are anticipated on the
                  westbound and southbound approaches of the 6200 South / 4800 West
                  intersection. The southbound queue is anticipated to block 6110 South at times.
                        Recommendations:
                               • Short term: Some benefit can be achieved by adjusting the
                                  traffic signal timing at the 4800 West / 6200 South intersection,

Kearns – Carrington Square Traffic Impact Study                                                    ii
                                   as well as changing the traffic signal heads to allow for a
                                   Flashing Yellow Arrow (FYA) at the intersection.
                               • Long term: Dual left-turn lanes should be installed on the
                                   westbound approach of the 4800 West / 6200 South
                                   intersection when funding becomes available. Dual westbound
                                   to southbound left-turn lanes are warranted based on existing
                                   (2019) volumes according to UDOT left-turn phasing guidelines.
                                       o It is anticipated that these mitigation measures will
                                           decrease the queueing and delays at the 4800 West /
                                           6200 South intersection.
        •   All study intersections are anticipated to operate at an acceptable LOS during the
            evening peak hour in future (2024) plus project conditions.




Kearns – Carrington Square Traffic Impact Study                                                iii
                                           Unified Fire Authority
                                          Fire Prevention Division
                                 Building and Site Development Plan Review

 Project:                    Carrington Square Conceptual Review                       Date: 9/5/2019
 Project Type:               Commercial New Construction
 Project / Application #     BlueBeam # 30865
 Project Address:            5959 S Cougar Lane Kearns, UT 84118

Thank you for submitting your plans for the project located at 5959 S Cougar Lane. Please review all
comments contained in this letter. Please contact Danny Egbert at 801-743-7235 with any questions.

Comments:
  Conceptual plans approved. Before any other Fire approval is given several concerns must be
  addressed. (These may be addressed by land-use/building permit submissions, but I will list them
  here):
  1. The only two entrances to the complex from Cougar Lane are too close together. Ref: 2018 IFC
     Appendix D Section D106.
  2. With the added number of units and increased living space square footage totals, new fire flow
     requirements will be determined and enforced. The minimum number of fire hydrants and the
     minimum spacing between fire hydrants may change. Ref: 2018 IFC Appendix C All Sections, and
     Ch. 5 Section 507
  3. Heights of proposed three story buildings are not shown, access to new buildings-especially
     building “C” as shown may not be compliant. Ref: Appendix D Section D105.1-D105.4
  4. Width and Length dimensions of the proposed access road to proposed building “F” may not
     conform. Ref: 2018 IFC Chapter 5 Fire Service Features, Section 503.1-503.4.1

REFERENCED CODE:
    2018 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE

   All plans pertaining to fire protection and/or life safety are to be made available upon request at the
construction site.

   Plan approval or review shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility of any person
   designing, owning, operating or controlling any building. Damages to persons or property caused by defects,
   fire, improper installation, or other emergency conditions that occur in or on the building property shall not
   hold the Unified Fire Authority as assuming any liability.

Thank you,

Daniel Egbert
Area Fire Inspector
Unified Fire Authority
4965 South Redwood Road
Taylorsville, Utah 84123
Phone: (801) 743-7235
degbert@unifiedfire.org
                                                        File #31052


                 Subdivision Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date: November 18, 2019
Parcel ID: 21-18-351-011-0000
Current Zone: C-2
Property Address: 5959 So. Cougar Lane
Request: One-Lot Subdivision
Applicant Name: Kearns Improvement District (Greg Anderson)

Planner: Diana Martinez
Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval with condition


                                             PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant is requesting approval for a one-lot subdivision in order to create a new parcel (50’ x 45’). Currently, the land
is part of the Carrington Square Apartment Complex property.

The applicant is intending to build a pump lift station on the property.



                               SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
This property is located on the east side of Cougar Lane, in the southwest corner of the Carrington Square Apartment
Complex.
Adjacent to the south is commercial uses.



                                     GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The current Kearns Township General Plan, which was adopted on August 11, 2009, has this property identified on its map
in a blue color. A “blue area” is one that has limited potential for the absorption of growth and is likely to experience only
minor changes in overall character over time. The level of stability of the Blue area is defined as follows:
          1- Subtle changes in land use may occur. Overall, land uses in the area/corridor will exhibit less diversity and less
              intensity. Changes will be limited to a small number of dispersed sites, leaving the majority of the
              area/corridor unchanged.
          2- Improvements may occur which subtly alter the appearance, economics, or sustainability of the area/corridor.
              Most improvements will consist of individual projects and may not require coordination with parcels beyond
              their immediate vicinity.
          3- Mobility networks are less formalized and will remain largely as built, but minor changes may occur. Public
              transit typically will have no dedicated right of way.
         Request: Subdivision Summary                                File #: 31052




                           ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
Only issue of concern that Staff has is that since this is such a small piece of land that the Kearns Improvement District is
trying to separate from the apartment complex property is that there is no room for the required landscaping buffer of 20’.
An exception to the landscaping requirement will have to be approved by the Planning Division Director.



                                        NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
Notices have been sent out to the property owners within 300’. There has been no neighborhood response.




                                    REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE
Agency reviewers have come back with positive reviews for the subdivision. Standard requirements and recommendations
have been noted for the conceptual plan.



                                         PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS

18.04.250 - Subdivision.
"Subdivision" means any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be divided into two or more lots,
parcels, sites, units, plots or other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale,
lease or development. Subdivision does not include a bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for
agricultural purposes, provided that such agricultural land shall be subject to the requirements of the subdivision
ordinance upon the conversion of the land from agricultural use to residential, commercial or manufacturing use.
Further, this definition shall not apply to the sale or conveyance of any parcel of land which may be shown as one
of the lots of a subdivision of which a plat has theretofore been recorded in the office of the county recorder. The
word "subdivide" and any derivative thereof shall have reference to the term subdivision as defined in this section.

18.08.010 - Procedure generally.
The planning commission shall be the land use authority for subdivisions. In order to assure that each subdivision
fully complies with the provisions of this title, the director or director's designee shall administer formal
application and review procedures for subdivisions. An application shall not be deemed complete until the full
application, fees and all required materials have been submitted. The payment of a partial fee and submission of
preliminary plans for a pre-submittal review does not constitute a complete application.
Each process shall include the following components:
         A. An application procedure, which shall include:
                 1. Submission of an application form, as designed by the director or director's designee to clearly
                 indicate the type of application, property address, applicant information, and other pertinent
                 information;
                 2. Submission of supplementary materials, including a legal description, property plat, the
                 required number of plans/preliminary plats, and mailing labels (if required) for notifications;
                 3. Payment of fees, as required under Title 3, Revenue and Finance.


Conditional Use Summary                                                                                           Page 2 of 3
        Request: Subdivision Summary                            File #: 31052

        B. A review procedure, which shall include:
                 1. An on-site review by the director or director's designee as provided by Utah Code 17-27a-303;
                 2. Review of the submitted site plan/preliminary plat for compliance with county land use
                 ordinances;
                 3. Reference of the application and site plan/preliminary plat to any other government agency
                 and/or affected entity which the director or director's designee deems necessary to protect the
                 health, safety, and welfare of the public and to ensure the project's compliance with all applicable
                 ordinances and codes;
                 4. The processing of any exception requests that have been made in conjunction with the
                 subdivision application.
        C. A preliminary plat approval procedure, which shall include:
                 1. Confirmation that all necessary agencies have responded to the requests for recommendation
                 with a recommendation of approval or approval with conditions;
                 2. Integration of the recommendations from the other government agencies and affected entities
                 involved above into the preliminary plat;
                 3. Receipt of a recommendation from the planning staff;
                 4. Approval of the preliminary plat as outlined in Section 18.12.030, and issuing a preliminary plat
                 approval letter.
        D. A final plat approval procedure, which shall include:
                 1. An engineering review to ensure that the final plat complies with all conditions of approval of
                 the preliminary plat and to ensure that the final plat complies with the design standards, codes,
                 and ordinances and with minimum engineering/surveying requirements;
                 2. A check of appropriate background information, such as: lot access, property title, record of
                 survey, field boundary verification, etc.;
                 3. The collection of the necessary approval signatures (planning commission representative,
                 director or director's designee, health department, district attorney, county mayor or their
                 designees) on the final plat;
                 4. Payment of final fees and bond;
5. Recordation of the plat.




                               PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Planning Staff recommends that the Kearns Metro Planning Commission recommend approval to the Kearns Township
Council for the proposed one-lot subdivision subject to the following condition:
         1. That any requested revisions be made to the preliminary plat and subdivision plans to bring them into
              conformance with ordinance requirements prior to staff granting final approval.




Conditional Use Summary                                                                                    Page 3 of 3
N

           Carrington
       C   Square
       o
       u
           Apts.
       g
       a
       r

       L
       n




    6200 South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SURVEYORS CERTIFICATE
                                                                                                                                        COUGAR LANE LIFT STATION SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I DAVID D STRONG DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT I AM A PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR

                                                                                                            A PART OF THE SOUTHWEST 41 OF SECTION 12, TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 2 WEST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IN THE STATE OF UTAH AND THAT I HOLD LICENSE NO. 5331568 IN ACCORDANCE WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TITLE 58, CHAPTER 22 OF THE PROFESSIONAL ENGINEERS AND LAND SURVEYORS
                                                                                                                                       KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N                            LICENSING ACT. I FURTHER CERTIFY THAT BY AUTHORITY OF THE OWNERS, A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SURVEY WAS MADE UNDER MY DIRECTION OF THE TRACT OF LAND SHOWN HEREON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 17-23-17. I HEREBY STATE THAT THIS PLAT IS TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AND CORRECT TO THE BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE, INFORMATION, BELIEF AND IN MY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROFESSIONAL OPINION.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0             10                    20   SIGNED THIS ______ DAY OF ____________, 20___.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SCALE IN FEET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BASIS OF BEARINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SIGNATURE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LEGAL DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COMMENCING AT THE WEST CORNER OF SECTION 18, TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WEST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN, AND RUNNING THENCE SOUTH 00°18'27" EAST,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ALONG THE QUARTER SECTION LINE, 2068.56 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 89°46'27" EAST,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   40.00 FEET, TO THE EASTERLY SIDELINE OF 4800 WEST STREET, AND THE POINT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BEGINNING FOR THIS DESCRIPTION; THENCE NORTH 00°18'27" WEST, ALONG SAID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EASTERLY SIDELINE OF SAID 4800 WEST STREET, 45.00 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 89°42'26"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EAST, 50.00 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 00°18'27" EAST, 45.00 FEET; THENCE NORTH 89°42'26"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WEST, 50.00 FEET, TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONTAINS 2,250 SQUARE FEET, MORE OR LESS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BASIS OF BEARINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THE BASIS OF BEARINGS FOR THIS SURVEY IS SOUTH 00°18'06" EAST, FROM THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NORTHWEST CORNER OF SECTION 18, TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 2 WEST THE ALONG
                                                                                                                                                 SUBJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           THE QUARTER SECTION LINE 2638.10 FEET, TO THE WEST QUARTER CORNER OF SAID
                                                                                                                                                 PROPERTY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SECTION 18.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OWNER'S DEDICATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Know all men by these presents that the undersigned are the owners of the hereon described tract
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of land and hereby cause the same to be divided into lots and streets together with easements as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   set forth hereafter to be k n o w n a s COUGAR LANE LIFT STATION SUBDIVISION. The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   undersigned owners hereby dedicate to Salt Lake County all those tracts of land designated on this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   plat as streets, the same to be used as public thoroughfares forever . The undersigned owners also
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   hereby convey to any and all public and private utility companies a perpetual, non-exclusive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   easement over the public utility easements shown on this plat, the same to be used for drainage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and the installation, maintenance and operation of utility service lines and facilities.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 1                                                             OWNER                                                         DATE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2,250 SF


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ACKNOWLEDGMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STATE OF UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COUNTY OF DAVIS }SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ON THIS       DAY OF        , 20  , PERSONALLY APPEARED BEFORE ME, THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UNDERSIGNED NOTARY PUBLIC, THE SIGNERS OF THE ABOVE OWNERS DEDICATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              , WHO DULY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ACKNOWLEDGED TO ME THAT THEY SIGNED IT FREELY AND VOLUNTARILY AND FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THE PURPOSES THEREIN MENTIONED.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A NOTARY PUBLIC COMMISSIONED IN UTAH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COMMISSION EXPIRES:



                                                                                              SUBJECT
                                                                                              PROPERTY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COUGAR LANE PUMP STATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHECKED FOR ZONING                                   UTILITIES, STREET & ADDRESS                    COUNTY HEALTH                                    DEVELOPER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMPLIANCE                                            FRONTAGE APPROVAL                           DEPTARTMENT                                                                         A PART OF THE SOUTHWEST 41 OF SECTION 12, TOWNSHIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ZONE: ____________    LOT AREA: _________                                                                                                                                                    2 SOUTH, RANGE 2 WEST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               APPROVED THIS ____________ DAY OF        APPROVED THIS ____________ DAY OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT WIDTH: ________   FRONT YARD: ______                 ____________ , 20 ________ .             ____________ , 20 ________ .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KEARNS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT                     KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SIDE YARD: ________   REAR YARD: _______                                                                                                        5350 W 5400 S, Kearns, UT 84118
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (801) 968-1011
Plot Date:10/3/2019 11:52 AM Plotted By: David Strong




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ENTRY NO. _____________________ FEE PAID ___________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DIRECTOR                                   DATE          DIRECTOR                DATE          DIRECTOR                  DATE                                                         FILED FOR RECORD AND RECORDED __________________ 20_____, AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   _____________ IN BOOK _______ PAGE ______ OF OFFICIAL RECORDS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PREPARED BY
                                                           UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY                      SALT LAKE COUNTY                      SALT LAKE COUNTY ENGINEER                          KEARNS IMPROVEMENT                        APPROVAL AS TO FORM                                  UTILITIES, STREET & ADDRESS                  SALT LAKE COUNTY COUNCIL
                                                                  APPROVAL                                 PLANNING                                                                                  DISTRICT                                                                                      FRONTAGE APPROVAL                 PRESENTED TO SALK LAKE COUNTY COUNCIL THIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         APPROVED THIS ____________ DAY OF
                                                                                               APPROVED THIS ____________ DAY OF             APPROVED THIS ____________ DAY OF             APPROVED THIS ____________ DAY OF                                                                   APPROVED THIS ____________ DAY OF     ____________ DAY OF ____________ , 20 ________ AT WHICH
                                                        APPROVED THIS ____________ DAY OF                                                                                                                                                ____________ , 20 ________.
Date Created:10/3/2019




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                               ____________ , 20 ________ BY THE SALT LAKE   ____________ , 20 ________ BY THE SALT LAKE   ____________ , 20 ________ BY THE KEARNS                                                            ____________ , 20 ________ .          TIME THEIS SUBDIVISION WAS APPROVED AND ACCEPTED.
                                                        ____________ , 20 ________ .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  466 North 900 West
                                                                                               COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION.                   COUNTY ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.                IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT.                                                                                                                                                                                     Kaysville, Utah 84037
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Phone (801) 547-0393



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT #55-18-108
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OCTOBER 2019                               SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER
                                                               DIRECTOR                DATE            DIRECTOR                  DATE            COUNTY ENGINEER               DATE                DIRECTOR                 DATE         COUNTY ATTORNEY                                DATE          DIRECTOR                DATE            MAYOR                 ATTEST: CITY RECORDER
                                                        File #31053


            Conditional Use Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date: November 18, 2019
Parcel ID: 21-18-351-011-0000
Current Zone: C-2
Property Address: 5959 So. Cougar Lane
Request: Conditional Use Request for a Pump Lift Station
Applicant Name: Kearns Improvement District (Greg Anderson)

Planner: Diana Martinez
Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval with conditions


                                             PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant is requesting approval for a Pump Lift Station.
Currently, the land is vacant and is part of the Carrington Square Apartment Complex property.




                              SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
This property is located on the east side of Cougar Lane, in the southwest corner of the Carrington Square Apartment
Complex.
Adjacent to the south is commercial uses.



                                     GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The current Kearns Township General Plan, which was adopted on August 11, 2009, has this property identified on its map
in a blue color. A “blue area” is one that has limited potential for the absorption of growth and is likely to experience only
minor changes in overall character over time. The level of stability of the Blue area is defined as follows:
          1- Subtle changes in land use may occur. Overall, land uses in the area/corridor will exhibit less diversity and less
              intensity. Changes will be limited to a small number of dispersed sites, leaving the majority of the
              area/corridor unchanged.
          2- Improvements may occur which subtly alter the appearance, economics, or sustainability of the area/corridor.
              Most improvements will consist of individual projects and may not require coordination with parcels beyond
              their immediate vicinity.
          3- Mobility networks are less formalized and will remain largely as built, but minor changes may occur. Public
              transit typically will have no dedicated right of way.
         Request: Conditional Use Summary                                 File #: 31053




                           ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
Only issue of concern that Staff has is that since this is such a small piece of land that the Kearns Improvement District is
trying to separate from the apartment complex property is that there is no room for the required landscaping buffer of 20’.
An exception to the landscaping requirement will have to be approved by the Planning Division Director.



                                        NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
Notices have been sent out to the property owners within 300’. There has been no neighborhood response.




                                    REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE
Agency reviewers have come back with positive reviews for the subdivision. Standard requirements and recommendations
have been noted for the conceptual plan.



                                         PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
19.84.060 - Standards for approval.
Prior to approval, all conditional uses and accompanying site development plans must be found to conform to the
following standards:

A. The proposed site development plan shall comply with all applicable provisions of the zoning ordinance,
including parking, building setbacks, and building height.
B. The proposed use and site development plan shall comply with all other applicable laws and ordinances.
C. The proposed use and site development plan shall not present a serious traffic hazard due to poor site design
or to anticipated traffic increases on the nearby road system which exceed the amounts called for under the
county transportation master plan.
D. The proposed use and site development plan shall not pose a serious threat to the safety of persons who will
work on, reside on, or visit the property nor pose a serious threat to the safety of residents or properties in the
vicinity by failure to adequately address the following issues: fire safety, geologic hazards, soil or slope conditions,
liquefaction potential, site grading/topography, storm drainage/flood control, high ground water, environmental
health hazards, or wetlands.
E. The proposed use and site development plan shall not adversely impact properties in the vicinity of the site
through lack of compatibility with nearby buildings in terms of size, scale, height, or noncompliance with
community general plan standards.


Staff believes this project conforms with the above standards. The applicant will continue to work with staff to
comply with the recommendations and requirements from the Agency Reviewers prior to final approval by staff.




Conditional Use Summary                                                                                           Page 2 of 3
        Request: Conditional Use Summary                               File #: 31053


                               PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Planning Staff recommends that the Kearns Metro Planning Commission grant approval of the proposed Pump Lift
Station subject to the following:
         1. Confirm approval for the lack of the required 20’ landscaping buffer on property by the Planning Division
             Director, prior to application continuing through technical review.
         2. Complete and record subdivision plat (#31052) prior to final approval of the Conditional Use application.




Conditional Use Summary                                                                                      Page 3 of 3
N

           Carrington
       C   Square
       o
       u
           Apts.
       g
       a
       r

       L
       n




    6200 South
Plot Date:9/23/2019 12:19 PM Plotted By: Thad Hansen
Date Created:9/23/2019 \\SLCFILES\PUBLIC\PROJECTS\JUB\KEARNS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT\83-18-043 OUTFALL 2A SEWER LINE DESIGN\CAD\SHEET\CIVIL\83_18_043_G-005.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                     4800 WEST (COUGAR LN)




                                                                                                                                                                                                        S




                                                                                                                                                                                          P




                                                                         JIFFY LUBE
                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CARRINGTON SQUARE




                                                                                                                                                                                                        S




                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SCALE IN FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                            J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND      J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                               COUGAR LANE OUTFALL 2A SEWER RELIEF PROJECT  OTHER RESERVED RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.
                                                                               DESIGN BY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                            ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE AT CLIENT'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               392 E. Winchester St.
                                                                                                                                                                    KEARNS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT             SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                               JP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Suite 300
                                                                                            DRAWN BY: ZJS


                                                          CHECKED BY: CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REVISION                               Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                    ONE INCH
                                                                                                            JUB PROJ. # : 83-18-043
                                                                                                                                      FILE : 83_18_043_G-005




           SHEET NUMBER:
                           LAST UPDATED: 9/23/2019




  G-005




                                                                                                                                                                        LIFT STATION SITE LAYOUT PLAN                                                                            Phone: 801.886.9052
                               AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                               INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                            NO.              DESCRIPTION                BY APR.    DATE
Kearns Improvement District - Cougar Lane Sewer Lift Station
Conceptual Graphics
Kearns Improvement District - Cougar Lane Sewer Lift Station
Conceptual Graphics
Kearns Improvement District - Cougar Lane Sewer Lift Station
Conceptual Graphics
Kearns Improvement District - Cougar Lane Sewer Lift Station
Conceptual Graphics
Kearns Improvement District - Cougar Lane Sewer Lift Station
Conceptual Graphics
