                                          Planning and Development Services
                                          2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                          Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                          https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/




                Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission
                                             Public Meeting Agenda

                           Monday, July 13, 2020 5:30 P.M.
                                                **AMENDED**
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
Join by phone
 Tap to call in from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
If you are the host, you can also enter your host PIN in your video conferencing system or application to start the
meeting. Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com


 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                            BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Welcome and approval of the agenda. (Motion/Voting)
    2) Approval of Minutes from the May 11, 2020 meeting. (Motion/Voting)
    3) Review of Rules of Order and Procedure. (Motion/Voting)
    4) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                       LAND USE APPLICATION(S)
31138- Kent Woodruff is requesting approval for a Conditional Use for Motor Vehicle repairing
and sales, and a Used Car Lot. Acreage: 1.18 acres. Location: 4768 South 5325 West. Zone: M-
1 (Manufacturing). Planner: Diana Martinez. (Motion/Voting)



July 13, 2020                                         Page 1 of 2             AGENDA – KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on these applications prior
to acting on the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three
minutes per person.

                                        PUBLIC HEARING(S)

30614 – Subdivision Ordinance as remanded to the planning commission from the Metro Council
for recommendation regarding: (1) updating Title 18 of the Metro Code to account for the metro
township form of government; (2) designating the Metro Council as the land use authority for
subdivisions; and (3) authorizing the planning commission to make recommendations regarding
subdivisions to the Metro Council. Presenter: MSD Counsel. (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed ordinance amendment after taking comments
from the public during the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the
planning commission’s rules of conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public
comments will be limited to three minutes per person.

                                           ADJOURN




July 13, 2020                               Page 2 of 2         AGENDA – KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebutals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



July 13, 2020                                         Page 1 of 1              AGENDA – KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
                                                     Planning and Development Services
                                                     2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                     Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




   **Notice of this meeting posted April 30, 2020 to https://www.utah.gov/pmn/sitemap/notice/602249.html and
  Ordinance of the Kearns Metro Township Council Outlining Recreation Facility and Open Space Standards for
                             Higher Density Developments published April 30, 2020**
                                        MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                        KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                   Monday, May 11, 2020 5:00 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 17 minutes                            *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 1                                        found on the State and County websites, or from Planning
                                                                         & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Wellman

                                               ATTENDANCE
                               Public     Business
        Commissioners                                   Absent
                                Mtg         Mtg                                                               Public      Business
                                                                              Planning Staff / DA
         David Taylor            x           x                                                                 Mtg          Mtg
          Joy Nelson             x           x                                   Wendy Gurr                      x            x
        Jerry Wellman            x           x                                  Julia Friedman                   x            x
           Joe Hatch             x           x                                    Travis Hair                    x            x
        Laura Koester            x           x                                   Jim McNulty                     x            x
                                                                                Nathan Bracken                   x            x




                                                BUSINESS MEETING

                                             Meeting began at – 5:00 p.m.

   1) Welcome and Introductions

       Commissioner Wellman read the Opening Statement. All staff and Commissioners introduced
       themselves.

   2) Election of Chair and Vice Chair 2020
      Election of Chair for 2020
      Motion: To nominate Commissioner Wellman for Chair, Commissioner Wellman accepted.
             Motion by: Commissioner Nelson
             2nd by: Commissioner Hatch
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor
       Election of Vice Chair for 2020
       Motion: To nominate Commissioner Nelson for Vice Chair, Commissioner Nelson accepted.
              Motion by: Commissioner Hatch
              2nd by: Commissioner Taylor


Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – May 11, 2020 – Meeting Summary                                             Page 1 of 4
               Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor

   3) Review and Acceptance of Agenda

       Commissioner Hatch accepted the agenda as presented, Commissioner Taylor seconded that
       motion. Commissioners voted unanimous in favor.

   4) Approval of Minutes from the January 13, 2020 meeting.
      Motion: To approve minutes from the January 13, 2020 meeting as presented.
            Motion by: Commissioner Hatch
            2nd by: Commissioner Nelson
            Vote: Commissioners Koester and Taylor abstained, all other Commissioner voted in favor.
            Motion passed.

   5) Planning Commission Training by Nathan Bracken, Kearns Metro Township attorney.

       Mr. Bracken provided brief planning commissioner training. Advised amended ordinances coming
       up this year. Nelson asked if the applications would be considered with the changes. Mr. Bracken
       said it would be followed by the current general plan and rules in effect at the time of the application.
       Discussed presenting and approving the agenda with the Chair prior to posting.

                                      LAND USE APPLICATION(S)
                                       Hearings began at – 5:46 p.m.

31008 – Paul Kinikini is requesting preliminary plat approval for the proposed 8-Lot Camp Kearns
Subdivision. Acreage: 26.4 (approximately). Location: 4725 South Camp Kearns Road. Zone: M-2
(Heavy Industrial). Planner: Julia Friedman. (motion/voting)

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on this application prior to acting on
the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planning and Development Planner Julia Friedman provided
an analysis of the staff report.

Nelson said confused as to what to do, general plan states this is a focus of change. Friedman said is
considered and applicant has worked with her since last fall and nothing really going on, consider
developing. Jim McNulty, as indicated by bracken, meets current ordinance, general plan guides and an
area for development and will have to come back for lot two for conditional use and will not be developed
on until the moratorium is listed in September.

Speaker # 1: Engineer-Representative
Name: Brandon Preece
Address: Not provided
Comments: Mr. Preece advised what the overall subdivision and understanding zoning, the technical staff
has done great in presenting. Applicant is aware of the moratorium and will come back for conditional use.
Not a zone change and nothing to hold back the preliminary plat approval.

Speaker # 2: Kearns Community Council
Name: Roger Snow

Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – May 11, 2020 – Meeting Summary                          Page 2 of 4
Address: 5977 South Parkwood Drive
Comments: Mr. Snow advised they understand this is a flat approval and other applications will come later
come before the planning commission. Kearns Community Council gives a favorable recommendation of
the plat approval.

Motion: To recommend preliminary plat approval on application #31008 to the Kearns Metro Township
Council as presented.
      Motion by: Commissioner Hatch
      2nd by: Commissioner Nelson
      Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor


Commissioner Nelson motioned to close land use applications and move to open the public hearing portion
of the meeting, Commissioner Hatch seconded that motion.

                                           PUBLIC HEARING(S)

An Ordinance of the Kearns Metro Township Council Outlining Recreation Facility and Open Space
Standards for Higher Density Developments as remanded to the planning commission from the Metro
Council for recommendation. A copy of the proposed ordinance is available at
https://www.utah.gov/pmn/index.html. (motion/voting)

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed ordinance after taking comments from the public during
the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the planning commission’s rules of
conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public comments will be limited three minutes per
person.

Counsel Mr. Bracken and Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planning and Development
Planner Travis Hair provided an analysis of the ordinance.

Commissioner Wellman asked if they need to define, playground and define what a sports court. Mr.
Bracken said there is a simple definition for a playground but come up with new definitions later down the
road. Hair said moving forward define and implement in a future code.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Kearns Community Council
Name: Roger Snow
Address: 5977 South Parkwood Drive
Comments: Mr. Snow advised the Kearns Community Council gives favorable recommendations, in the
interim needs to happen now. Can address after the general plan is done.

Commissioner Hatch motioned to open the public hearing, Commissioner Nelson seconded that motion.

No one from the public present to speak.

Commissioner Hatch motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Nelson seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED


Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – May 11, 2020 – Meeting Summary                     Page 3 of 4
Motion: To recommend approval of the Ordinance Outlining Recreation Facility and Open Space Standards
for Higher Density Developments to the Kearns Metro Township Council for adoption.
       Motion by: Commissioner Nelson
       2nd by: Commissioner Hatch
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor

Commissioner Hatch motioned to adjourn, Commissioner Nelson seconded that motion.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 6:17 p.m.




Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – May 11, 2020 – Meeting Summary                Page 4 of 4
From:          support@utah.gov
To:            Wendy Gurr
Subject:       Public Notice for Kearns Township Planning Commission
Date:          Thursday, April 30, 2020 5:29:51 PM




Utah Public Notice
Kearns Township Planning Commission
Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission

Notice Date & Time: 5/11/20 5:00 PM

Description/Agenda:

     BUSINESS MEETING
1)   Welcome and Introductions
2)   Election of Chair and Vice Chair 2020 (motion/voting)
3)   Review and Acceptance of Agenda (motion/voting)
4)   Approval of Minutes from the January 13, 2020 meeting (motion/voting)
5)   Planning Commission Training by Nathan Bracken, Kearns Metro Township
attorney.

LAND USE APPLICATION(S)

31008 - Paul Kinikini is requesting preliminary plat approval for the proposed 5-Lot
Camp Kearns Subdivision. Acreage: 26.4 (approximately). Location: 4725 South
Camp Kearns Road. Zone: M-2 (Heavy Industrial). Planner: Julia Friedman.
(motion/voting)

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on this
application prior to acting on the application. If public input is requested, public
comment will be limited to three minutes per person.
PUBLIC HEARING(S)

An Ordinance of the Kearns Metro Township Council Outlining Recreation Facility
and Open Space Standards for Higher Density Developments as remanded to the
planning commission from the Metro Council for recommendation. A copy of the
proposed ordinance is available at https://www.utah.gov/pmn/index.html.
(motion/voting)

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed ordinance after taking comments
from the public during the public hearing. Public comments will be provided
pursuant to the planning commission's rules of conduct, which are attached to the
back of this agenda. Public comments will be limited three minutes per person.


					
Notice of Special Accommodations:

UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE
ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE
CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707. TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.

Notice of Electronic or telephone participation:

Electronic or Telephonic Participation is available. Join meeting in WebEx Meeting number
(access code): 961 841 420 Join by phone Tap to call in from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles) +1-602-666-0783 United States Toll
(Phoenix) Access code: 961 841 420 Global call-in numbers Join from a video conferencing
system or application Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter
your meeting number. If you are the host, you can also enter your host PIN in your video
conferencing system or application to start the meeting. Need help? Go to
http://help.webex.com

Other information:

Location:

WebEx Virtual Meeting Room, Kearns, 84118

Contact information:

Wendy Gurr , wgurr@slco.org, (385)468-6707
                                                                                                                                 Remit to:
                                                                                                                                 Utah Media Group
                                                                                                                                 4770 S 5600 W
                                                                                                                                 West Valley City, UT 84118
 Order Confirmation for                           0001288766

 Client              GMSD PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT SRVCS

 Client Phone        8014682338                                                    Account #    9001341511

 Address             2001 S STATE ST STE N3600                                     Ordered By   Wendy

                     SALT LAKE CITY UT 841900001                              Account Exec      ltapusoa2

                                                                                   PO Number    Kearns Public Notice - Ordinance adoption
          Email      wgurr@msd.utah.gov


                     Total Amount                                   $142.76
                     Payment Amt                                          $0.00

                     Amount Due                                     $142.76

                     Text:    Kearns Public Notice - Ordinance adoption



Ad Number         0001288766-01             Ad Type                  Legal Liner

Ad Size           2 X 41 li                 Color

    WYSIWYG Content




Product                                     Placement                                     Position
Salt Lake Tribune                           Legal Liner Notice                            Public Meeting/Hear

Scheduled Date(s):                          04/30/2020

utahlegals.com                              utahlegals.com                                utahlegals.com

Scheduled Date(s):                          04/30/2020

Deseret News                                Legal Liner Notice                            Public Meeting/Hear

Scheduled Date(s):                          04/30/2020
                                                       File #31138


            Conditional Use Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date: July 13, 2020
Parcel ID: 20-12-126-006-0000
Current Zone: M-1
Property Address: 4768 S. Camp Kearns Road
Request: Conditional Use Approval for Motor Vehicle Sales and Repair (Used Car Lot)
Applicant Name: Kent Woodruff

MSD Planner: Diana Martinez
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval with conditions




                                             PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant, Kent Woodruff, is requesting Conditional Use approval for Motor Vehicle Sales and Repair (Used Car Lot).

Mr. Woodruff made application for the Conditional Use request at the beginning of March 2020, just before the Land Use
Moratorium was adopted. However, because Mr. Woodruff did not have the correct business licensing paperwork through
the State of Utah, MSD Planning Staff did not bring the Conditional Use application to the Planning Commission. The
applicant was able to obtain the Utah State Dealership license on June 23, 2020 and is now asking for approval of the uses
listed above.




                                       SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION
                                                     (see attached map)

This property is in the Camp Kearns industrial area. Most of the properties around the subject property are zoned M-1 (light
industrial) or M-2 (heavy industrial).




                                    GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
        The current General Plan was adopted on August 11, 2009, after all three phases of the site were
developed. Chapter 4 of the General Plan includes a map that is intended to serve as a guide to areas of anticipated
and desired stability or growth absorption and includes various colors that indicate a range in the level of stability
        Request: Conditional Use Request                           File #: 31138

and intensity of activity within the Township. The map depicts the site in a red color. The red area is an area that
has obvious potential for the future absorption
of growth and is likely to experience significant change in overall area character over time. The level of stability
of red area is defined as follows:
             • Major changes in land use will occur and represent a significant diversion from the typical land
                 uses in the area/corridor. Growth in these areas will increase, significantly raising the intensity of
                 land uses. Change in land uses may affect the majority of the area/corridor and are not limited
                 to a specific cluster.
             • Improvements are likely to occur which will significantly alter the appearance, economics, or
                 sustainability of the area/corridor. Improvements will have a theme and will create a destination
                 or attraction. Development of this area will likely require consolidation of land and coordinated
                 planning.
             • Mobility networks will be redesigned and will include highly connected, formalized, and multi-
                 modal facilities. Public transit will have dedicated or fixed rights-of-way. Walkability and
                 connectivity are critical to the success of the area/corridor.




                          ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
In the past, this property has been given warnings and citations issued by both County and MSD Code Enforcement, due to
the applicant having many unlicensed and unregistered vehicles on the property. The MSD Planning Staff believes that
these issues can be mitigated through the conditions of approval for the proposed Conditional Use.




                                       NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
Notice has been sent out to property owners within 300’ of this property. No response has been received as of
the writing of this report.



                                   REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE
The agency reviewers have come back with “Conceptual Ok’ed” responses, meaning the proposed conceptual
plan is acceptable, but revisions and/or more information will be required for technical review.




                                       PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
19.84.050 Approval/Denial Authority
The planning commission has the authority to approve, deny, or approve with conditions conditional use
applications.

    1. Planning Commission Approval.
           1. The planning commission shall review and approve or deny each application during a public
              meeting.

Staff Report                                                                                                 Page 2 of 3
        Request: Conditional Use Request                          File #: 31138

          2. The planning commission's decision shall be based on information presented through the public
              meeting process, including: the materials submitted by the applicant, the recommendation of the
              director or director's designee, and input from interested parties and affected entities.
          3. If conditions are specified, the director or director's designee shall issue a final approval letter upon
              satisfaction of the planning commission's conditions of approval.
          4. If the applicant fails to meet all conditions of approval within twelve months of the planning
              commission's decision, the application is deemed denied. A twelve-month extension may be
              granted upon the payment of an additional filing fee equal to the original filing fee.
          5. A planning commission decision shall be made on a complete conditional use application within a
              reasonable time frame, not to exceed ninety days. The planning commission is authorized to
              review and take action on an application as outlined in Section 19.84.040 after having notified the
              applicant of the meeting date.
          6. Failure by the applicant to provide information that has been requested by the planning
              commission, the director or director's designee to resolve conflicts with the standards in Section
              19.84.060 (above) may result in an application being denied.
   2. Decision. Each conditional use application shall be:
          1. Approved if the proposed use, including the manner and design in which a property is proposed
              for development, complies with the standards for approval outlined in Section 19.84.060; or
          2. Approved with conditions if the anticipated detrimental effects of the use, including the manner
              and design in which the property is proposed for development, can be mitigated with the
              imposition of reasonable conditions to bring about compliance with the standards outlined in
              Section 19.84.060; or
          3. Denied if the anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use cannot be mitigated with the
              imposition of reasonable conditions of approval to bring about compliance with the standards
              outlined in Section 19.84.060.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 17-01-03 on 1/17/2017


                              PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
The MSD Planning Staff is recommending that the Planning Commission grant Conditional Use approval for
the Motor Vehicle Sales and Repair at 4768 S. Camp Kearns Road subject to the following conditions:
           1. The applicant shall comply with all MSD and Outside Agency Reviewer requirements and
              recommendations prior to final application approval.
           2. The applicant shall obtain a business license which includes motor vehicle sales and repair.
           3. That all bonds for improvements and final fees related to the application be posted and/or
              paid prior to final approval.
           4. The applicant must obtain a building permit for any additions or modifications made to the
              existing building.
           5. No outdoor vehicle repairs are to be made on the lot. All repairs must be located within the
              repair building.
           6. Only vehicles that are for sale may be located in the front area of the property.
           7. All vehicles on the property must be registered and licensed. All vehicles which don’t meet
              these requirements must be removed from the site prior to vehicle sales and repairs occurring
              on the site.
           8. Per Ordinance 19.80.040.2: “automobile…sales and service garage, two spaces plus once
              space for each four hundred square feet of floor area”, must be provided for off-street
              parking.

Staff Report                                                                                               Page 3 of 3
                                N

4700 south



             Camp Kearns area
4700 South




      subject project
                        Camp Kearns
ORDINANCE NO. ____________________                          _________________________, 2020

           AN ORDINANCE OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
          DESIGNATING THE COUNCIL AS THE LAND USE AUTHORITY FOR
                              SUBDIVISIONS

                                          RECITALS

       WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-2a-414(3) provides that a Salt Lake County ordinance will
remain in effect as the ordinance of the Kearns Metro Township (“Kearns”) “until the metro
township council amends or repeals the ordinance;” and

       WHEREAS, Title 18 of the Kearns Metro Township Code (the “Code”) governs
subdivisions within Kearns; and

       WHEREAS, because the Salt Lake County originally adopted Title 18 prior to the
incorporation of the Kearns Metro Township, Title 18 as currently constituted is not specific to
Kearns and does not account for the metro township form of municipal government; and

        WHEREAS, on June 29, 2017, the Kearns Metro Township Council adopted Ordinance
No. 17-06-03 to create the Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission (the “Planning
Commission”) to enact chapter 19.05 of the Code, which specifies in Section 19.05.040(D) that
the Planning Commission is to “approve or deny…subdivision applications to the metro township
council;” and

        WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township Council (the “Council”) desires to amend Title
18 and other applicable provisions of the Code to: (1) clarify that the Council as the land use
authority for Kearns for subdivisions consistent with the intent of Ordinance No. 17-06-03; (2) to
authorize the Planning Commission to review subdivision applications and make
recommendations regarding the same to the Council; (3) to make other corresponding changes to
applicable provisions of the Code; and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-9a-602, the Kearns Metro Township Planning
Commission has reviewed and recommended the below revisions to Title 18 and other applicable
portions of the Code after providing notice consistent with Utah Code § 10-9a-205 and holding a
public hearing on __________; and

        WHEREAS, the Council has determined that the attached revisions to Title 18 and other
portions of the Code will serve the best interests of the Kearns Metro Township and the general
public.

    NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL AS FOLLOWS:




                                                1
1. Section 18.04.025 is enacted to read:

              “Attorney” means the Kearns Metro Township Attorney.

2. Section 18.04.060 is amended to read:

       18.04.060 Council

       "Council," unless otherwise clearly indicated, means the Kearns Metro Township council.

3. Section 18.04.075 is amended to read:

   18.040.075 Director

   "Director" means the director of the Kearns Metro Township planning and development
   services division.

4. Section 18.04.100 is amended to read:

   18.04.100 Engineering Division

   "Engineering division" means the engineering division of the public works department of the
   Kearns Metro Township.

5. Section 18.04.120 is amended to read:

   18.04.120 Flood Control Division

   "Flood control division" means the division of flood control and water quality of the Kearns
   Metro Township public works department.

6. Section 18.04.170 is amended to read:

   18.04.160 Major Street

   "Major street" means a street, existing or proposed, which serves or is intended to serve as a
   major traffic way and which and which the Kearns Metro Township has designated as a
   controlled-access highway, major street, parkway or by equivalent terms suitable to identify
   streets comprising the basic structure of the street plan.

7. Section 18.04.175 is enacted to read:

   18.04.175 Mayor

   “Mayor” means the Kearns Metro Township mayor.


                                                2
8. Section 18.04.185 is enacted to read:

      “Municipal Surveyor” means the Salt Lake County Surveyor pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §
      10-3c-203 or applicable successor statute or any other person or entity that the Kearns
      Metro Township Council has authorized to full the surveyor duties imposed by law on the
      Kearns Metro Township.

9. Section 18.04.210 is amended to read:

      18.04.210 Planning Commission

      “Planning Commission” means the Kearns Metro Township planning commission.

10. Section 18.04.220 is amended to read:

      18.04.210 Preliminary Approval

      "Preliminary approval" means an approval, with or without recommended alterations or
      restrictions, given to a preliminary plat by the council after reviewing the planning
      commission’s recommendation and provides the necessary authority to proceed with the
      preparation and presentation of the final plat.

11. Section 18.04.260 is amended to read:

      18.04.260 Trails

      "Trails" means a system of public recreational pathways located within the Kearns Metro
      Township for use by the public for walking, biking and/or horseback riding as designated.

12.       Section 18.08.010 is amended to read:

      18.08.010 Procedure Generally

      The council shall be the land use authority for subdivisions. In order to assure that each
      subdivision fully complies with the provisions of this title, the director or director's designee
      shall administer formal application and review procedures for subdivisions. An application
      shall not be deemed complete until the full application, fees and all required materials have
      been submitted. The payment of a partial fee and submission of preliminary plans for a pre-
      submittal review does not constitute a complete application.

      Each process shall include the following components:

      A. An application procedure, which shall include:




                                                   3
   1. Submission of an application form, as designed by the director or director's designee
      to clearly indicate the type of application, property address, applicant information, and
      other pertinent information;
   2. Submission of supplementary materials, including a legal description, property plat,
      the required number of plans/preliminary plats, and mailing labels (if required) for
      notifications;
   3. Payment of fees, as required under Title 3, Revenue and Finance.

B. A review procedure during which the director or director’s designee shall:

   1. Conduct an on-site review as provided by Utah Code § 17-27a-303;
   2. Review of the submitted site plan/preliminary plat for compliance with Kearns Metro
      Township land use ordinances;
   3. Refer the application and site plan/preliminary plat to any other government agency
      and/or affected entity which the director or director’s designee deems necessary to
      protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public and to ensure the project’s
      compliance with all applicable ordinances and codes;
   4. Process any exception requests that have been made in conjunction with the
      subdivision application.

C. A preliminary plat approval procedure during which the director or director’s designee
   shall:

   1. Confirm that all necessary agencies have responded to the requests for
      recommendation with a recommendation of approval or approval with conditions;
   2. Integrate recommendations from the other government agencies and affected entities
      involved above into the preliminary plat;
   3. Obtain recommendations from the planning staff and planning commission and provide
      the recommendations to the Council;
   4. Approval of the preliminary plat by the council as outlined in Section 18.12.030.
   5. Issuance of a preliminary plat approval letter.

D. A final plat approval procedure, which shall include:

   1. Submission of a written explanation to the director or director’s designee by subdivider
      of all changes from the preliminary plat to the final plat seeking approval;
   2. An engineering review to ensure that the final plat complies with all conditions of
      approval of the preliminary plat and to ensure that the final plat complies with the
      design standards, codes, and ordinances and with minimum engineering/surveying
      requirements;
   3. A check of appropriate background information, such as: lot access, property title,
      record of survey, field boundary verification, etc.;
   4. Approval of the final plat and any related changes by the planning commission or the
      director or the director’s designee pursuant to Section 18.08.010(E).
   5. Payment of final fees and bond;
   6. The collection of the necessary approval signatures on the final plat;
   7. Recordation of the plat.
                                            4
   E. Final Plat Approval Authority

       1. The planning commission must approve in a duly noticed public meeting any proposed
          final plat which includes any change to the preliminary plat that involve: (i) increasing
          the number of lots; (2) lot access points; (3) the outer boundaries of the proposed
          subdivision; or (4) plans for required improvements identified pursuant to Chapter
          18.24. A public hearing is not required for planning commission approval of a final
          plat.
       2. The director or the director’s designee may approve a final plat if planning commission
          approval is not required under Section 18.08.010(E)(1). The director may, in their
          discretion, refer any change not addressed in Section 18.08.010(E)(1) to the planning
          commission to review for final plat approval.

13. Section 18.08.015 is amended to read:

   18.08.015 Time Limits

   Subdivision applications are subject to expiration according to the following schedule unless,
   for good cause shown, the applicant is granted an extension of time by the director or director's
   designee:

   A. A subdivision application shall expire if the applicant has not filed any of the required
      documents for preliminary plat approval within one year of the submission of a complete
      application.

   B. A subdivision application shall expire if the final plat is not submitted to planning and
      development services within one year of the preliminary plat approval.

   C. A subdivision application shall expire if the final plat has not been signed by the mayor
      within six months of the approval of the director or director's designee.

   D. A subdivision application shall expire if the final plat has not been recorded within six
      months of the date of the mayor’s signature on the plat.

14. Section 18.08.020 is amended to read:

   18.08.020 Exceptions--Permitted When

   In cases where unusual topographic, aesthetic or other exceptional conditions exist or the
   welfare, best interests and safety of the general public will be usefully served or protected,
   variations and exceptions of this title may be made by the council after reviewing the
   recommendations of the planning commission and planning staff, provided, that such
   variations and exceptions may be granted without substantial detriment to the public good
   and without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this title. The granting of an
   exception under this section is discretionary.


                                                 5
15. Section 18.12.010 is amended to read:

          18.12.010 Required Information

   A. The preliminary plat, prepared on paper twenty-one inches by thirty inches, shall contain
      the information specified in this section and comply with the following requirements:

       1. Description and Delineation. In a title block located in the lower right-hand corner the
          following shall appear:

          a. The proposed name of the subdivision, which name must be approved by the
             planning and development services division;
          b. The location of the subdivision, including:
             1) Address, and
             2) Section, township and range;
             c. The names and addresses of the owner, the subdivider, if different than the
                owner, and of the designer of the subdivision; and
             d. The date of preparation, scale (no less than one inch to equal one hundred feet)
                and the north point.

       2. Existing Conditions. The plat shall show:

          a. The location of and dimensions to the nearest bench mark or monument;
          b. The boundary lines of the proposed subdivision indicated by a solid heavy line and
             the total approximate acreage encompassed thereby;
          c. All property under the control of the subdivider, even though only a portion is being
             subdivided. Where the plat submitted covers only a part of the subdivider's tract, a
             sketch of the prospective street system of the unplatted parts of the subdivider's land
             shall be submitted, and the street system of the part submitted shall be considered
             in the light of existing general street plans, other applicable studies;
          d. The location, width and names of all existing streets within two hundred feet of the
             subdivision and of all prior platted streets or other public ways, railroad and utility
             rights-of-way, parks and other public open spaces, permanent buildings and
             structures, houses or permanent easements and section and corporation lines,
             within and adjacent to the tract;
          e. The location of all wells, proposed, active and abandoned, and of all reservoirs
             within the tract and to a distance of at least one hundred feet beyond the tract
             boundaries;
          f. Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground facilities within the
             tract and to a distance of at least one hundred feet beyond the tract boundaries,
             indicating pipe sizes, grades, manholes and exact location;
          g. Existing ditches, canals, natural drainage channels, and open waterways and
             proposed realignments;
          h. Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of unsubdivided land, showing ownership where
             possible;
          i. Contour at vertical intervals of not more than two feet. Highwater levels of all
             watercourses, if any, shall be indicated in the same datum for contour elevations;

                                                6
           j. Nearest installed fire hydrants on or within five hundred feet of the proposed
              subdivision.

       3. Proposed Subdivision Plan. The subdivision plan shall show:

           a. The layout of streets, showing location, widths and other dimensions of (designated
              by actual or proposed names and numbers) proposed streets, crosswalks, alleys
              and easements;
           b. The layout, numbers and typical dimensions of lots.
           c. Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved for public use or
              set aside for use of property owners in the subdivision;
           d. Building setback lines, including showing dimensions where required by the
              council;
           e. Easements for water, sewers, drainage, utility lines and other purposes, if required
              by the council;
           f. Typical street cross sections and grade sheets where required by the council or
              other interested Kearns Metro Township divisions;
           g. A tentative plan or method by which the subdivider proposes to handle stormwater
              drainage for the subdivision.

Where required, evidence of any agreements with adjacent property owners relative to the
subdivision development shall be presented to the planning and development services division in
writing prior to its approval of the plat. These agreements shall include those relative to drainage,
easements, protection strips and improvement bonds.

16. Section 18.12.020 is amended to read:

   18.12.020 Appraisal of Interested Parties

    The council may, by majority vote, withhold approval for one year of a preliminary plat
    submitted for the division of property, a part or all of which is deemed suitable by council
    for schools, parks, playgrounds, streets, highways or other areas for public use, after
    apprising the proper agencies in writing of the property owner's intent to subdivide. If any
    such areas proposed for public use have not been freely dedicated to the public by the
    owner or have not been purchased at a fair price by the proper agency within one year from
    the date of notification, such areas may be divided into lots and sold in accordance with the
    provisions of this title.

17. Section 18.12.030 is amended to read:

   18.12.030 Preliminary Plat Approval or Disapproval

   A. The planning commission shall review a preliminary plat and any related planning staff
      recommendations before making a recommendation to the council to approve, deny, or
      modify the preliminary plat. The planning commission shall not consider a preliminary
      plat at a meeting if the preliminary plat and the information required under section
      18.12.010 were not submitted at least 30 days prior to the date of the meeting.

                                                 7
   B. The council will obtain the preliminary plat, the planning staff’s report, and the planning
      commission’s recommendations from the planning staff before acting on the preliminary
      plat. If the preliminary plat is approved, the director or director's designee shall sign the
      plat along with a clear notation substantially in the following form: “Preliminary Plat –
      Subject to Final Approval per Kearns Metro Township Code Section 18.08.010(E).” One
      copy of the preliminary plat shall be provided to the subdivider. One signed copy shall be
      retained by the planning and development services division, and one copy of the approved
      plat shall be returned to the developer's engineer. If the preliminary plat is disapproved,
      the director or director's designee shall notify the developer in writing and give reasons
      for such disapproval. The receipt of a signed copy of the approved preliminary plat shall
      be authorization for the subdivider to proceed with the preparation of specifications for
      the minimum improvements required in Chapter 18.24 of this title and with the preparation
      of the final plat.

18. Section 18.16.010 is amended to read:

   18.16.010 Required Information

   The final plat, which must be prepared by a licensed land surveyor not in the employ of the
   Kearns Metro Township on a sheet of approved reproducible Mylar and made with approved
   waterproof black india drawing ink, with text not less than one-tenth inch in size, shall be so
   drawn that the top of the sheet faces either north or east, whichever accommodates the drawing
   best, shall contain all information required on the preliminary plat (except contours), and shall
   comply with the following:

   A. Description and Delineation. The final plat shall show:

       1. The approved name of the subdivision;
       2. Accurate angular and lineal dimensions for all lines, angles and curves used to
          describe boundaries, streets, alleys, easements, areas to be reserved for public use and
          other important features. Boundary lines shall be drawn heavier than street and lot
          lines;
       3. An identification system for all lots and blocks and names of streets. Lot lines shall
          show dimensions in feet and hundredths;
       4. Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings and length of all arcs;
       5. The accurate location of all monuments and fire hydrants to be installed shown by the
          appropriate symbol. All applicable United States, state, county, Kearns Metro
          Township or other official bench marks, monuments or triangulation stations in or
          adjacent to the property, shall be preserved in precise position;
       6. The dedication to the Kearns Metro Township of all streets and highways included in
          proposed subdivisions. Subdivision monuments shall be installed prior to the
          improvement bond release by the subdivider's engineer or land surveyor at such points
          designated on the final plat as approved by the planning and development services
          division. Kearns Metro Township standard precast monuments, rings and lids shall be
          furnished by the municipal surveyor and shall be purchased by the subdivider at the
          prices indicated in the municipal surveyor's adopted fee schedule;

                                                8
       7. Physical markers shall be placed at each lot corner in accordance with state statutes;
       8. Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be dedicated or reserved for
          public use, with the purposes indicated thereon, and of any area to be reserved by deed
          or covenant for common uses of all property owners;
       9. Where it is proposed that streets be constructed on property controlled by a public
          agent or utility company, approval for the location, improvement and maintenance of
          such streets shall be obtained from the public agency or utility company and entered
          on the final plat in a form approved by the attorney.

   B. Standard Forms for the Following. The final plat shall require:

       1.   A registered land surveyor's certificate of survey;
       2.   The owner's certificate of dedication;
       3.   A notary public's acknowledgement;
       4.   The council’s certificate of approval;
       5.   The health department's certificate of approval;
       6.   The planning and development services division's certificate of approval;
       7.   The attorney's certificate of approval;
       8.   The mayor's certificate of approval;
       9.   A one and one-half by five-inch space in the lower right-hand corner of the drawing
            for the county recorder's use.

19. Section 18.18.010 is amended to read:

        18.18.010 Purpose

   This chapter establishes review and approval procedures for subdivision amendments and
   boundary line adjustments. Changes to preliminary plat or final plat plans prior to final
   approval are governed by the procedures in chapters 18.12 and 18.16, respectively, and
   chapter 18.08 generally.

20. Section 18.18.050 is amended to read:

   18.18.050 Other Amendments To Subdivisions

   An amendment to a recorded subdivision that involves the alteration or removal of an
   easement, private right-of-way, condition, limitation, or special requirement shall follow the
   approval procedure outlined in Section 18.08.010 with the following variations:

   A. Only those persons or entities who have a direct interest in, or who will be directly affected
      by the proposed change (including the applicant) must be notified of any pending action;

   B. No planning commission review of an amendment under this section is required for the
      council to review an amendment; and

   C. No preliminary plat need be approved. The recommendations of the affected entities and
      the approval of the council may be based on a final plat.

                                                 9
21. Section 18.20.010 is amended to read:

   18.20.010 Departmental Standards

   Standards for design, construction specifications and inspection of street improvements, curbs,
   gutters, sidewalks, storm drainage and flood control facilities shall be prepared by the
   engineering division; standards for water distribution and sewage disposal facilities shall be
   prepared by the health department, and similar standards for fire hydrants shall be prepared
   by the fire department. All subdividers shall comply with the standards established by such
   departments and agencies of the Kearns Metro Township, provided that such standards shall
   be approved by the council.

22. Section 18.20.020 is amended to read:

   18.20.020 Design Standards Generally

   The design of the preliminary and final plats of the subdivision in relation to streets, blocks,
   lots, open spaces and other design factors shall be in harmony with design standards
   recommended by the planning commission and by other departments and agencies of the
   metro township. Design standards shall be approved by the council and shall include
   provisions as provided in Sections 18.20.030 through 18.20.050.

23. Section 18.20.025 Design Standards for Subdivisions Located in The Foothills and
    Canyons Overlay Zone is deleted in its entirety.


24. Section 18.20.030 is amended to read:

    18.20.030 Blocks:

   A. Blocks shall not exceed one thousand six hundred feet in length.

   B. Blocks shall be wide enough to adequately accommodate two tiers of lots.

   C. Dedicated walkways through the block may be required where access is necessary to a
      point designated by the council. Such walkways shall be a minimum of six feet in width,
      but may be required to be wider where determined necessary by the council. The subdivider
      shall surface the full width of the walkway with a concrete surface, install a chain-link
      fence or its equal four feet high on each side and the full length of each walkway and
      provide, in accordance with the standards, rules and regulations, barriers at each walkway
      entrance to prevent the use of the walkway, by any motor vehicle or by any other
      nonmotorized vehicle wider than four feet.

   D. Blocks intended for business or industrial use shall be designed specifically for such
      purposes with adequate space set aside for off-street parking and delivery facilities.


                                                10
25. Section 18.20.050 is amended to read:

   18.20.050 Protection Strips

   Where subdivision streets parallel contiguous property of other owners, the subdivider may,
   upon approval of the council, retain a protection strip not less than one foot in width between
   the street and adjacent property; provided, that an agreement, approved by the attorney, has
   been made by the subdivider, contracting to deed to the then owners of the contiguous
   property, the one-lot or larger protection strip for a consideration named in the agreement;
   such consideration to be not more than the fair cost of land in the protection strip, the street
   improvements properly chargeable to the contiguous property, plus the value of one-half the
   land in the street at the time of agreement, together with interest at a fair rate from the time
   of agreement until the time of the subdivision of such contiguous property. One copy of the
   agreement shall be submitted by the attorney to the council prior to its approval of the final
   plat. Protection strips shall not be permitted at the end of or within the boundaries of a
   public street or proposed street or within any area intended for future public use.

26. Section 18.24.010 is amended to read:

   18.24.010 Certification of Improvements

   No final plat of a subdivision of land shall be recorded without receiving a statement signed
   by the planning and development services division certifying that the improvements
   described in the subdivider's plans and specifications have been completed (or that a bond
   has been submitted for the required improvements as allowed under Section 18.24.170), that
   they meet the minimum requirements of all ordinances of the Kearns Metro Township, that
   they comply with the standards and requirements of the health department, the planning and
   development services division, the council and the fire authority serving the area.


27. Section 18.24.020 is amended to read:

   18.24.020 Sewers

   Storm sewers shall be constructed throughout the entire subdivision to carry off water from
   all inlets and catchbasins, and shall be connected to an adequate outfall. A stormwater
   drainage system subject to the approval of the planning and development services division
   shall be provided, and shall be separate and independent of the sanitary sewer system. The
   final plans for the drainage system shall be prepared by a licensed engineer not in the
   employ of the Kearns Metro Township.

28. Section 18.24.025 is amended to read:

   18.24.025 Public Sanitary Sewer

   A. Where public sewer service is available to the subdivision, a public sanitary sewer system,
      including main lines and laterals from the main to each lot property line, shall be

                                               11
       constructed throughout the entire subdivision in accordance with plans and technical
       standards required by the entity providing public sewer service to the subdivision and shall
       be connected to the public sewer system.

   B. In cases where public sewer service is not presently available to the subdivision, alternate
      waste disposal systems may only be permitted and used provided that the subdivider or
      developer installs and constructs concurrently therewith sanitary sewer laterals and mains
      within the subdivision streets to a point on the subdivision boundary where future
      connection with the public sewer system shall be made. Sewer laterals shall be laid from
      each lot to the main line in each street, and a connection shall be available on each lot to
      connect from the alternate waste disposal systems to the sewer system when public sewer
      becomes available and operational. Such sanitary sewer system shall be capped until ready
      for use and shall be constructed throughout the entire subdivision in accordance with plans
      and technical standards required by the entity that will provide public sewer service to the
      subdivision in the future.

   C. The council may exempt the subdivider from the requirements of this section upon a finding
       that public sewer service is unlikely to be provided to the subdivision in the future due to
       physical inaccessibility of the terrain. Prior to making a decision concerning a requested
       exemption, the council shall request a written recommendation from the planning
       commission, the Kearns Metro Township engineer, and from the entity most likely to
       provide sewer service to the area in which the subdivision is located.

29. Section 18.24.040 is amended to read:

   18.24.40 Street Improvements

   A. The subdivider shall submit a complete set of construction plans and profiles of all streets,
      existing and proposed, within the subdivision to the planning and development services
      division. Plans and profiles are to be prepared by a licensed professional engineer not in
      the employ of the Kearns Metro Township and shall be accompanied by the final plat. The
      planning and development services division shall, within a reasonable time not to exceed
      twenty days from the receipt of the plans and profiles, notify the subdivider of approval,
      and in case of disapproval the reasons therefor.

   B. At least ten days prior to the commencement of construction, the subdivider shall furnish
      to the planning and development services division three complete sets of approved
      construction plans and profiles of all streets, existing and proposed. Such plans and
      profiles shall include:

       1. The designation of limits of work to be done;
       2. The location of the bench mark and its true elevation according to Kearns Metro
          Township datum, all profiles to be referred to that datum;
       3. Profiles which indicate the finished and existing grades for each side of the street.
          Separate profiles, clearly designated, shall be made for each side of the street;



                                               12
       4. Construction plans which include the details of curb and gutter and street cross-
          sections, location and elevation of manholes, catchbasins and storm sewers, elevations
          and location of fire hydrants and any other detail necessary to simplify construction;
       5. Complete date for field layout and office checking;
       6. On curb returns, at least two additional control points for elevation besides those at
          points of curvature. Control points shall be staked in the field to insure drainage at
          intersection;
       7. The street address of the project.

30. Section 18.24.050 is amended to read:

   18.24.050 Arrangement Of Streets

   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for the continuation of
   the existing streets in adjoining areas and shall provide access to unsubdivided adjoining areas
   insofar as such continuation or access shall be deemed necessary by the council. New streets
   must connect with existing public streets.

31. Section 18.24.060 is amended to read:

   18.24.060 Utility And Facility Systems To Be Underground

   All utility and facility systems including, but not limited to, all poles, towers, wires, lines,
   cables, conduits, and pipes providing service such as electricity, telephone, telegraph, cable
   television, gas, water, sewer, steam or petroleum including service drops, distribution
   systems, and transmission systems shall be placed underground in accordance with all
   applicable ordinances and policies of the Kearns Metro Township and other applicable laws
   and regulations. (Refer to Chapter 19.79 of this code, Utility and Facility System Placement
   Regulations.)

32. Section 18.24.070 is amended to read:

   18.24.070 Street Lighting

   Except as provided for in subsection E below, adequate street lighting shall be provided for
   the safety and welfare of residents and businesses located in the Kearns Metro Township
   through the installation of a street lighting system as part of subdivision development.

   All street lights intended to illuminate the public street shall be installed in accordance with
   standards established and approved by the public works operations director or designee.
   Street light systems shall be designated on approved plats and installed accordingly.
   A. For all residential, multi-family residential, planned unit development, commercial, and
      industrial subdivision developments approved after the effective date of this ordinance, the
      subdivider shall install and pay the installation costs for street lights as shown on the
      approved subdivision plat or site plan and to post a bond, pursuant to section 18.24.170,


                                                13
       guaranteeing proper installation. The subdivider must also provide a dedicated public
       utility easement from each respective underground power source to each streetlight.

   B. Items to be approved pursuant to the requirements of the "Standard Specifications for
      Street Light Construction" include:

       1.   Appropriate distance or spacing;
       2.   Alternating sides of street, when applicable;
       3.   Appropriate illumination at intersections;
       4.   Location upon the property;
       5.   Street light type and decorative style based on street classification;
       6.   Height based on location;
       7.   Installation methods and requirements; and
       8.   Illumination intensity, electrical specifications, and code requirements as determined
            by the "Standard Specifications for Street Light Construction".

   C. The subdivider or designee shall submit completed as-built drawings to the public works
      operations director or designee within thirty days of the completion of the installation of a
      street light system within a subdivision development.

   D. The public works operations director or designee shall have the authority:

       1. To enforce this section and to ensure that street light installation is completed in
          compliance with all of its requirements; and,
       2. To vary the standards referenced in this section and to approve alternative street light
          designs and locations when adverse topography, roadway geometrics and design, the
          presence of natural vegetation, or any other adverse conditions exist which would
          justify such variations and alternatives without being detrimental to the public safety
          or welfare.

   E. The council shall have the authority to waive or modify the requirement for street light
      installation in subdivisions upon finding that:

       1. The subdivision is located in an environmentally sensitive area; or,
       2. The subdivision will result in three or fewer new lots; or,
       3. The subdivision will not result in any other public street improvements.

33. Section 18.24.080 is amended to read as follows:

   18.24.80 Pavement Requirements

   A. All streets within the Kearns Metro Township shall be improved with pavements bounded
      by integral concrete curbs and gutters to an overall width in accordance with the
      standards, rules and regulations adopted by the council.

   B. Pavements shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements of the standards, rules
      and regulations adopted by the council.

                                                14
34. Section 18.24.105 is amended to read:

   18.24.105 Trails

   The subdivider shall dedicate trails necessary to provide public access to public lands and
   other trails shown on the Kearns Metro Township general plans or as required by the
   council. Trails shall be located so that the route is feasible for both construction and long-
   term maintenance; sideslopes shall not exceed seventy percent and rock cliffs and other
   insurmountable physical obstructions shall be avoided. The specific location of the trail
   right-of-way shall be verified on the ground before approval of the subdivision. The amount
   of land required for trail dedication without compensation shall not exceed five percent of
   the land within the subdivision excluding trails located within a standard street right-of-way.

35. Section 18.24.140 is amended to read:

   18.24.140 Open Ditches And Canals – Fencing Requirements

   The subdivider shall install a six-foot, nonclimbable chain-link fence, or its equivalent, in
   conformance with the standards and rules and regulations adopted as provided in Section
   18.20.010, along all open ditches, canals or waterways, nonaccess streets, open reservoirs or
   bodies of water, railroad rights-of-way and other such features of potentially hazardous
   nature on, crossing or contiguous to the property being subdivided, except along those
   features which the council shall determine would not be a hazard to life, or where the
   conforming structure would create a hazard to the safety of the public.

36. Section 18.24.145 is amended to read:

   18.24.145 Fencing Requirements

   Where lots rear on a public street the developer shall install fencing along the street right-of-
   way which is:

   A. Uniform in design and materials within the subdivision;

   B. A solid visual barrier screening;

   C. A minimum of six feet high from the top of curb or, if there is no curb, from the crown of
      the street;

   D. Maintained by the abutting property owner;

   E. Constructed with a sealant placed on any masonry fence to help with the removal of graffiti
      and to preserve the surface;

   F. Constructed according to development standards approved by the council;


                                                15
   G. Placed on the property line with the space between the fence and the sidewalk hard
      surfaced or planted with a perennial, climbing, groundcover and a sprinkling system.

37. Section 18.24.150 is amended to read:

   18.24.150 Construction of Improvements

   A. Twenty-four hours prior to construction of any required improvements, the Kearns Metro
      Township planning and development services division shall be notified so that proper
      inspection may be provided and so that it may be determined whether or not proper
      authorization and/or required permits for construction have been obtained.

   B. As-built plan and profile drawings shall be furnished to the planning and development
      services division of all street improvements, storm sewer, sanitary sewer and water systems
      upon completion. The Kearns Metro Township shall retain the improvement bond until
      such plans have been submitted.

   C. Extreme care should be exercised on the part of the subdivider, the contractor and all other
      associated agencies for the protection and maintenance of all existing or newly placed
      improvements or facilities within the roadway sections during development.

38. Section 18.24.160 is amended to read:

   18.24.160 Responsibility for Damages

   All damages to any bonded improvements or facilities incurred during the period of
   development shall be the sole responsibility of the subdivider and must be replaced to the
   satisfaction of the council before final acceptance of any improvements caused by the
   subdivider or any agents of the subdivider shall be repaired by the subdivider to the
   satisfaction of the council prior to final acceptance and bond release.

39. Section 18.24.170 is amended to read:

       18.24.170 Improvement Completion Assurance

   A. In lieu of actual completion of the landscaping and infrastructure improvements listed in
      this chapter, the Kearns Metro Township shall require one of the following forms of
      improvement completion assurance: (1) a cash bond; (2) an escrow agreement; or (3) an
      irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank that is located in Utah and is insured by the
      Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The mayor or the mayor’s designee shall
      determine the amount of the performance bond, provided that the among must be specific
      to the individual subdivision and be reasonably necessary to assure the actual construction
      of such improvements within a two-year period and to ensure that Kearns Metro Township
      funds will not be required to complete the improvements. Twenty-five percent of the bond
      amount specified shall be for public improvements such as curb, gutter, sidewalk, road
      surfacing, flood control and fire hydrants and shall extend for a one-year period beyond
      the date the improvements are completed to guarantee replacement of defective public

                                               16
       improvements. Twenty-five percent of the bond amount for live plant materials in common
       areas shall extend for a two-year period beyond the date of planting to guarantee
       replacement of diseased or dead plants. The bond or agreement shall also secure all lot
       improvements on individual lots on the subdivision which are required in this chapter.

   B. Subdividers are not required to post an improvement completion assurance for:

          1. Landscaping or an infrastructure improvement that the Kearns Metro Township
             has previously inspected and accepted; and

          2. Infrastructure improvements that are private and not essential or required to meet
             the building code, fire code, storm water management provisions, street and access
             requirements, or other essential necessary public safety improvements adopted in
             a Kearns Metro Township ordinance.

   C. If the mayor or mayor's designee determines that the required improvements should be
      completed in a specified sequence and/or in less than a two-year period in order to protect
      the health, safety and welfare of the Kearns Metro Township or its residents from traffic,
      flood, drainage or other hazards, it may require in approving the final subdivision plat that
      the improvements, including required landscaping be installed in a specified sequence and
      period which may be less than two years and shall incorporate such requirements in the
      bond.

   D. Inspections shall be made within five days from the date of the request. If inspection shows
      that Kearns Metro Township standards and specifications have been met in the completion
      of such improvements, the bond shall be released by the mayor or mayor's designee within
      seven days from the time of inspection and filing of the as-built plan and profile drawings.
      If the bonds are not released, refusal to release and the reasons therefor shall be given the
      subdivider in writing within seven days from the time of the inspection.

   E. Such bonds shall be processed and released in accordance with the procedures set forth in
      Chapter 3.56 of this code.

40. Section 18.24.190 is amended to read:

   18.24.190 Fee In Lieu of Required Improvements

   A. Where present conditions exist which make it unfeasible or impractical to install any
      required public improvements, the mayor or mayor's designee may require the subdivider
      to pay to the Kearns Metro Township a fee equal to the estimated cost of such improvements
      as determined by the director of planning and development services. Upon payment of the
      fee by the developer, the Kearns Metro Township shall assume the responsibility for future
      installation of such improvements.

   B. The auditor shall establish a special account for such fees and shall credit to such account
      a proportioned share of interest earned from investment of Kearns Metro Township
      moneys. Records relating to identification of properties for which fees have been collected,

                                               17
       fee amounts collected for such properties and money transfer requests shall be the
       responsibility of the planning and development services division.

41. Section 18.30.010 is amended to read:

   18.30.10 Filing Required, Indexing And Fees

   A. Any registered professional land surveyor making a survey of private lands within this state
      who establishes or reestablishes any private property boundary monument shall file a map
      of the survey that meets the requirements of this chapter with the municipal surveyor within
      ninety days of the establishment or reestablishment of the boundary monument.

   B. The municipal surveyor shall file and index the map of the survey which will thereafter be
      a public record in the office of the municipal surveyor and will be available for examination
      by the public. The municipal surveyor will provide facilities for copying such maps and
      associated documents.

   C. The fee to be charged and collected by the municipal surveyor for filing and indexing a
      map of survey will be ten dollars.

   D. The following fees are approved for copying service. They will be posted conspicuously in
      the municipal surveyor's office. (They are subject to change as approved by the council.)

        1. Copies of map of survey                                                           $2.00

        2. Large (3 ½′ by 4 ½′) Kearns Metro Township-wide maps                              5.00

        3. Area reference plats                                                              2.00

        4. Legal or letter size copies                                                       0.50

   E. The requirements of this section are in addition to Chapter 14.17, Excavation Permit for
      Monuments.

42. Section 18.30.020 is amended to read:

   18.30.020 Contents of Maps

   A. The municipal surveyor will screen maps of survey that are submitted to him to ensure that
      they conform to the requirements set forth in this chapter before receiving them. Such maps
      shall be drawn on a twenty-four-inch by thirty-six-inch linen and shall show:
      1. The location of survey by quarter section and township and range;
      2. The date of survey;
      3. The scale of drawing and north point;



                                               18
       4. The distance and course of all lines traced or established, giving the basis of bearing
           and the distance and course to a section corner or quarter corner, including township
           and range, or an identified monument within a recorded subdivision;
       5. All measured bearings, angles and distances separately indicated from those of record;
       6. A written boundary description of property surveyed;
       7. All monuments set and their relation to older monuments found;
       8. A detailed description of monuments found and monuments set, indicated separately;
       9. The land surveyor's seal or stamp;
       10. The land surveyor's business name and address.

43. Section 18.30.050 is amended to read:

   18.30.050 Changes Of Section Or Quarter Section Corners

   A. If, in the performance of a survey, the land surveyor finds or makes changes in the section
      corner or quarter-section corner, or their accessories as they are described in an existing
      corner record or survey map in the office of the municipal surveyor, the land surveyor shall
      complete and submit to the municipal surveyor a record of the changes needed to be made
      to any corner or accessories to the corner.

   B. The record shall be submitted within forty-five days of the corner visits and shall include
      the land surveyor's seal, business name, and address.

44. Section 18.30.060

   18.30.060 Compliance By Governmental Agencies

   Any federal or state agency, board or commission, special district, or municipal corporation
   that makes a survey of lands within the Kearns Metro Township shall comply with this
   chapter.

45. Section 18.30.070

   18.30.70 Amendment by Affidavit

   A. Any survey map or narrative filed and recorded under the provisions of this chapter may
      be amended by an affidavit of corrections:
      1. To show any courses or distances omitted from the map or narrative;
      2. To correct an error in the description of the real property shown on the map or
          narrative; or
      3. To correct any other errors or omissions where the error or omission is ascertainable
          from the data shown on the map or narrative as recorded.

   B. The affidavit of correction shall be prepared by the registered professional land surveyor
      who filed the map or narrative.



                                               19
   C. In the event of the death, disability or retirement from practice of the surveyor who filed
      the map or narrative, the municipal surveyor may prepare the affidavit of correction.

   D. The affidavit shall set forth in detail the corrections made.

   E. The seal and signature of the registered professional land surveyor filing the affidavit of
      correction shall be affixed to the affidavit.

46. Section 18.30.080 is amended to read:

   18.30.80 Municipal Surveyor Certification

   A. The municipal surveyor having jurisdiction of the map or narrative shall certify that the
      affidavit of correction has been examined and that the changes shown on the map or
      narrative are changes permitted under this section.

   B. Nothing in this section permits changes in courses or distances for the purpose of
      redesigning parcel configurations.

47. Section 18.32.010 is amended to read:

   18.32.010 Adoption of Health Regulations

   The provisions of the health department Health Regulation No. 12, entitled "Subdivisions,"
   as currently adopted by the Salt Lake County board of health under authority of the Utah
   State Code are incorporated in their entirety by reference. Three copies of the current
   regulations shall be filed with and retained by the Kearns Metro Township clerk and the
   health department for examination by any person.

48. Section 18.36.010 is amended to read:

   18.36.010 Building Permit Issuance

   From the time of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this title, the building
   inspector shall not grant a permit, nor shall any Kearns Metro Township officer grant any
   license or permit for the use of any land or the construction or alteration of any building or
   structure on a lot which would be in violation of any provisions of this title until a
   subdivision plat therefor has been recorded as required in this chapter. Any license or permit
   issued in conflict with such provisions shall be void.

49. Section 18.36.020 is amended to read:

   18.36.020 Filing Fees

   Any and all persons filing plats with the county recorder shall first have paid all fees
   required in this title. In addition, persons filing plats shall pay to the planning and
   development services division prior to recording, an office checking fee as provided for in

                                                20
   Section 3.48.020.

50. Section 18.36.030 is amended to read:

   18.36.030 Inspections

   Appropriate agencies and departments of the Kearns Metro Township shall inspect or cause
   to be inspected all buildings, street improvements, fire hydrants and water supply and
   sewage disposal systems in the course of construction, installation or repair. Excavations for
   the fire hydrants and water and sewer mains and laterals shall not be covered or backfilled
   until such installation shall have been approved by the planning and development services
   division. If any such installation is covered before being inspected and approved, it shall be
   uncovered after notice to uncover has been issued to the responsible person by the inspector.

51. Section 18.36.040 is amended to read:

   18.36.040 Enforcement Authority

   The planning and development services division, the fire department, the highway division,
   the council, and such other departments and agencies of the Kearns Metro Township as are
   specified under the provisions of this title are designated and authorized as the agencies
   charged with the enforcement of the provisions of this title and shall enter such actions in
   court as are necessary. Failure of such departments to pursue appropriate legal remedies
   shall not legalize any violation of such provisions.

52. Section 18.40.010 is amended to read:

   18.40.010 Prohibited Acts

   No person shall subdivide any tract or parcel of land located wholly or in part in the Kearns
   Metro Township except in compliance with the provisions of this title. No person shall
   purchase, sell or exchange any parcel of land that is any part of a subdivision or a proposed
   subdivision submitted to the planning commission for review and recommendation to the
   council, nor offer for recording in the office of the county recorder any deed conveying such
   parcel of land or any fee interest therein, unless such subdivision has been created pursuant
   to and in accordance with the provisions of this title.

53. Section 19.05.040 is amended to read:

   19.05.040 Powers and Duties

   The planning commission shall:
   A. Prepare and recommend a general plan and amendments to the general plan to the
      metro township council;



                                               21
   B. Recommend zoning ordinances and maps and amendments to zoning ordinances and maps
      to the metro township council;

   C. Recommend subdivision ordinances and amendments to those ordinances to the metro
      township council;

   D. Recommend the approval, denial, or modification of subdivision applications to the metro
      township council;

   E. Approve or deny conditional use permits;

   F. Advise the metro township council on matters that the council directs;

   G. Provide other functions as specified in this chapter or as directed by the metro township
      council.

54. This ordinance will become effective 20 days after publication pursuant to Utah Code Ann.
    § 10-3-711(1) and Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-712.

                                    [signatures on following page]




APPROVED and ADOPTED this _______ day of _______________, 2020.

                                                   KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                                                   By: ________________________________
                                                       Kelly Bush, Mayor


ATTEST                                              APPROVED AS TO FORM:


_______________________________                     __________________________________
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk/Recorder                     METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY



VOTING

Council Member Bush voting                 _____
Council Member Butterfield voting          _____
Council Member Peterson voting             _____

                                              22
Council Member Schaeffer voting             _____
Council Member Snow voting                  _____



 (Complete as Applicable)

 Summary of ordinance published in newspaper: _____________________

 Date of publication:____________________________________________

 Effective date of ordinance:______________________________________




                                       SUMMARY OF

          KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO. ________________



       On the _____ day of __________________, 2020, the Kearns Metro Township Council

adopted Ordinance No. _________________, revising Title 18 and other applicable provisions of

the Kearns Metro Township Code to designate the Kearns Metro Township Council as the land

use authority for subdivisions and to make other updates needed to update the Code to reflect the

metro township form of municipal government.


                                                    KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                                                    By: ________________________________
                                                        Kelly Bush, Mayor




                                               23
ATTEST                                             APPROVED AS TO FORM:


_______________________________                    ___________________________________
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk                             METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY

VOTING

Council Member Bush voting                 _____
Council Member Butterfield voting          _____
Council Member Peterson voting             _____
Council Member Schaeffer voting            _____
Council Member Snow voting                 _____

A complete copy of Ordinance No. ______________ is available in the office of the Kearns
Metro Township Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.




                                             24
