                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/




            Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission
                                          Public Meeting Agenda

                      Monday, August 10, 2020 5:30 P.M.
Pursuant to HB 5002 as codified in Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-207(4), Jerry Wellman has determined in his capacity as
Chair of the Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission that this meeting and/or public hearing will be held
electronically without an anchor location given the ongoing Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, which
the Chair has determined to present a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at an
anchor location. To participate in the meeting and to make public comments where indicated in the agenda, please
use the below webinar instructions.
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
Join by phone
 Tap to call in from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.



                                          BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Welcome and approval of the agenda. (Motion/Voting)
    2) Approval of Minutes from the July 13, 2020 meeting. (Motion/Voting)
    3) Transportation Element to be reviewed and recommended to the council for feedback.
       (Motion/Voting) Presenter: Kayla Mauldin
    4) Other Business Items (as needed)




August 10, 2020                                    Page 1 of 2            AGENDA – KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
                                LAND USE APPLICATION(S)

24679- St. Francis Xavier School is requesting a Temporary Change to the Conditional Use
conditions allowing for pick up and drop off along 4520 West, during the COVID-19 restriction
period. Acreage: 4.73 acres. Location: 4501 West 5215 South. Zone: P.I. (Public Facility Zone)
Planner: Diana Martinez. (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on these applications prior
to acting on the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three
minutes per person.


                                     PUBLIC HEARINGS

31222 – Proposed ordinance to enact Chapter 19.15 of the Kearns Metro Township Code regarding
accessory dwelling units, particularly (i) authorizing accessory dwelling units in single-family
detached units and (ii) regulating accessory dwelling units. Presenter: Travis Hair
(Motion/Voting)

Proposed ordinance to update and revise provisions of the Kearns Metro Township Code regarding
(i) conditional uses, (ii) the Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission, and (iii) related
provisions. The proposed ordinance also contains conforming and unifying modifications.
Presenter: Jay Springer (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed ordinance amendment after taking comments
from the public during the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the
planning commission’s rules of conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public
comments will be limited to two minutes per person.

                                           ADJOURN




August 10, 2020                             Page 2 of 2         AGENDA – KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebutals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



August 10, 2020                                       Page 1 of 1              AGENDA – KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
                                                      Planning and Development Services
                                                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




   **Notice of this meeting posted June 30, 2020 to https://www.utah.gov/pmn/sitemap/notice/614697.html and
                Subdivision Ordinance published July 3, 2020, and notices mailed June 30, 2020**
                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                        KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                    Monday, July 13, 2020 5:30 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 47 minutes                                    *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 4                                         found on the State and County websites, or from Planning
                                                                          & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Wellman

                                                ATTENDANCE

                                Public     Business                                                            Public      Business
        Commissioners                                    Absent                Planning Staff / DA
                                 Mtg         Mtg                                                                Mtg          Mtg
         David Taylor             x           x
          Joy Nelson              x           x                                   Wendy Gurr                      x            x
                                                                                 Diana Martinez                   x            x
        Jerry Wellman             x           x
                                                                                   Travis Hair
           Joe Hatch              x           x
                                                                                  Jim McNulty                     x            x
        Laura Koester             x           x
                                                                                 Nathan Bracken                   x            x



                                                 BUSINESS MEETING

                                              Meeting began at – 5:30 p.m.
        Commissioner Wellman read the Kearns Metro Township electronic meeting notice, signed, and
        made available for the record.

    1) Welcome and Approval of the Agenda

        Commissioner Wellman read the Opening Statement.

        Commissioner Taylor motioned to approve the agenda, Commissioner Nelson seconded that motion.

    2) Approval of Minutes from the May 11, 2020 meeting.
       Motion: To approve minutes from the May 11, 2020 meeting with amendments by Commissioner
       Nelson.
              Motion by: Commissioner Nelson
              2nd by: Commissioner Hatch
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor.




Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – July 13, 2020 – Meeting Summary                                             Page 1 of 5
    3) Review of Rules of Order and Procedure.

        Corrects several typos in the original orders and quorum of approval.

        Motion: To recommend approval of Rules of Order and Procedure with amendments to the Kearns
        Metro Township Council.
               Motion by: Commissioner Hatch
               2nd by: Commissioner Nelson
               Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor

        Mr. Bracken provided feedback on the opening statement and electronic meetings regarding anchor
        location. He will provide language for agendas.

                                          LAND USE APPLICATION(S)
                                        Hearings began at – 5:42 p.m.

31138- Kent Woodruff is requesting approval for a Conditional Use for Motor Vehicle repairing and sales,
and a Used Car Lot. Acreage: 1.18 acres. Location: 4768 South 5325 West. Zone: M-1 (Manufacturing).
Planner: Diana Martinez. (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on these applications prior to acting
on the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planning and Development Planner Diana Martinez
provided an analysis of the staff report.

Commissioner Wellman had a question on staff recommendation #4, asked if this was addition or
modification of building. Ms. Martinez said a new building but will be attached and will be addition to the
existing building. Commissioner Wellman asked #2 business license. Ms. Martinez confirmed MSD business
license. Mr. Bracken said indicate he already obtained the state license and needs business license through
the MSD. Commissioner Wellman asked if okay to add existing buildings or new buildings on the lot. Mr.
Bracken said he is fine. Commissioner Nelson said #8 should be one, not once. Commissioner Hatch said
geared towards not becoming a salvage lot or storage, cars up for sale traded in may not be currently
licensed and avoid an issue for the property owner. Ms. Martinez said could put a 90-day check for code
enforcement. Mr. Bracken said the language is clear and not sure how long it takes, this is the code
violation, be clear in business license and a lot of the vehicles were not registered. More comfortable with
all vehicles must be licensed and registered in accordance with applicable laws. Commissioner Hatch asked
about #2. Mr. Bracken said would be taken care of through the MSD.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Kent Woodruff
Address: 8017 South Bettingson Drive, West Jordan
Comments: Mr. Woodruff said everybody is spot on review with recommendations.

Speaker # 2: Kearns Community Council
Name: Roger Snow
Address: 5977 South Parkwood Drive


Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – July 13, 2020 – Meeting Summary                      Page 2 of 5
Comments: Mr. Snow said all licenses, permits, and fees paid and will have to rezone for commercial.
Community Council gives a favorable recommendation if all fees paid.

Ms. Martinez said as conditional use, motor vehicle sales and repairs are okay. Mr. Snow said all
automotive guidelines will have to be followed and complied with. Ms. Martinez agreed and if any
complaints or non-compliance code enforcement will be involved.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Motion: To preliminarily approve application #31138 with staff recommendations and amendments to
conditions 2, 4, 7, and 8.
       Motion by: Commissioner Hatch
       2nd by: Commissioner Taylor
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor


Commissioner Taylor motioned to close land use applications and move to open the public hearing portion
of the meeting, Commissioner Hatch seconded that motion. Commissioners voted unanimous.

                                            PUBLIC HEARING(S)

30614 – Subdivision Ordinance as remanded to the planning commission from the Metro Council for
recommendation regarding: (1) updating Title 18 of the Metro Code to account for the metro township form
of government; (2) designating the Metro Council as the land use authority for subdivisions; and (3)
authorizing the planning commission to make recommendations regarding subdivisions to the Metro
Council. Presenter: MSD Counsel. (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed ordinance amendment after taking comments from the
public during the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the planning commission’s
rules of conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public comments will be limited to three
minutes per person.

Counsel Mr. Bracken provided an analysis of the ordinance.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Kearns Community Council
Name: Roger Snow
Address: 5977 South Parkwood Drive
Comments: Mr. Snow said the Community Council gives a favorable recommendation

Commissioner Hatch motioned to open the public hearing, Commissioner Nelson seconded that motion.

No one from the public present to speak.

Commissioner Hatch motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Nelson seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Motion: To recommend approval of file #30614 to the Kearns Metro Township Council.


Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – July 13, 2020 – Meeting Summary                   Page 3 of 5
        Motion by: Commissioner Hatch
        2nd by: Commissioner Koester
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor

Commissioner Hatch motioned to adjourn, Commissioner Taylor seconded that motion.

                                          MEETING ADJOURNED
                                         Time Adjourned – 6:17 p.m.




Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – July 13, 2020 – Meeting Summary         Page 4 of 5
Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – July 13, 2020 – Meeting Summary   Page 5 of 5
Lupita McClenning                                                                                                          Trent Sorensen
Director                                                                                                               Chief Building Official
Izabela Miller
Operations Officer




                                                           Memorandum
           Date: August 5, 2020
           To: The Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission
           From: Kayla Mauldin, Long Range Planner, MSD
           Subject: Advancement of DRAFT Kearns General Plan Transportation Element for Review by
           Council
           The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) Long Range Planning Team, with
           approval from the Kearns General Plan Steering Committee (GPSC), is asking that the Planning
           Commission consider advancing the Draft Kearns General Plan Transportation Element for review
           by the Council. The drafted element is attached to this memo and is still in progress. Sending the
           document to the Council would allow the Long Range Planning Team (LRP) and GPSC to start
           receiving feedback from the Council to guide the continued drafting of the plan element.
           The Kearns General Planning Process was launched in December of 2019. The transportation
           element is one of three general plan components required by Utah State Code, the other two
           being land use and moderate-income housing (adopted in 2019). When the entire general plan is
           drafted, the Planning Commission will be asked to recommend the draft to Council to vote on. The
           purpose of sending the transportation element forward now, is only so that the Council may begin
           reviewing and providing feedback to the LRP Team.
           The LRP team is still adding to this drafted transportation element. In particular, the following
           items need to be addressed:
              1. The GPSC has asked the LRP Team to inquire about the functional street classification
                 used in the element, especially citing concern about 6200 S’s classification as a minor (vs.
                 major) arterial (pg. 13).

              2. Updates need to be made to the sidewalk inventory map originally provided in the Kearns
                 Master Transportation Plan (pg. 21).

              3. Further investigation of ADA-compliance in the public right-of-way is needed (pg. 23).

              4. The GPSC has asked the LRP Team to include an additional spread in the transportation
                 element, which will discuss the following:

                      a. Future road expansions and projects planned for Kearns, according to WFRC, UTA,
                         and other regional plans.




                      Planning & Development Services • 2001 South State Street, N3-600 • Salt Lake City, Utah 84190
                                                   https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/
                                                                                                         Page 2 of 2




              b. Future plans for regional roadways that impact Kearns, including Mountain View
                 Corridor and Bangerter Highway.

              c. How the character of Kearns Metro Township, and especially of the residential
                 neighborhoods within, can be maintained even as roadway expansions/projects
                 occur.

Advancing this draft for feedback from the Council would allow the LRP Team to continue
working on the above items while receiving critical input from the Council to guide the general
planning process forward. The LRP Team looks forward to providing a comprehensive, high-
quality general plan for Kearns Metro Township.




                Planning & Development Services • 2001 South State Street • Salt Lake City, Utah 84190
                                                www.slco.org/pwpds
 Fl2 MAR 18
KEARNS GENERAL PLAN
        Prepared for Kearns Metro Township 2020


         T
     AF
 DR
                            TRANSPORTATION ELEMENT




                        FT
                         A
                      DR
Kearns General Plan     2                            3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Transportation

     What are the State Code requirements?                               What’s in the Kearns Transportation Element?                          Neighboring Municipalities:                                         Utah Transit Authority (UTA):

     The transportation element is one of just three elements                                                                                  Kearns is bordered by West Valley City, West Jordan, and            UTA “provides integrated mobility solutions to service life’s
                                                                         While the land use element lays out patterns of uses across
     required for Kearns by State Code (the other two being                                                                                    Taylorsville, all of which have their own transportation elements   connections, improve public health and enhance quality
                                                                         Kearns Metro Township, the transportation element examines
     the land use element and moderate-income housing                                                                                          of the general plan. Collaboration with these municipalities is     of life”; they “provide an integrated system of innovative,
                                                                         how people access these uses. The transportation element
     plan). State Code §10-9a-403 requires that the land use                                                                                   key if Kearns hopes to achieve its transportation goals. SLCo       accessible and efficient public transportation services that
                                                                         establishes a vision not only for arriving from Point A to Point B,
     element of the general plan accomplishes the following:                                                                                   is also preparing a plan for the area southwest of Kearns,          increase access to opportunities and contribute to a healthy
                                                                         but also for ensuring that transportation systems are sufficient
                                                                                                                                               including Oquirrh. Growth projected in this area will heavily       environment for the people of the Wasatch region” (UTA).
                                                                         to connect all residents with their daily needs, regardless of
     1.     Provides the general location and extent of existing                                                                               influence Kearn’s transportation capacity and needs.
                                                                         whether that resident has access to a private automobile.                                                                                 UTA owns and operates the six bus routes that run through
            and proposed freeways, arterial and collector
                                                                                                                                               Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT):                           Kearns, along with all of the associated infrastructure. UTA
            streets, public transit, active transportation facilities,   This chapter includes an overview of the feedback generated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   also operates TRAX, paratransit, and other micromobility
            and other modes of transportation that the planning          from the community regarding transportation, as well                  UDOT “aim[s] to Keep Utah Moving. That includes everything          services. Kearns should be attentive to future UTA plans and
            commission considers appropriate;                            as an analysis of existing conditions of roadways, public             from improving our roads and traffic lights to providing            provide feedback on services to planners and decision-makers
                                                                         transportation, walking and biking infrastructure, ADA                alternate means of getting from A to B, like bike lanes and
     2. For a municipality that has access to a major transit                                                                                                                                                      whenever opportunities are given.
                                                                         compliance in the public right-of-way, and Kearns’ usage              public transit. We want to make sure that whatever is being
        investment corridor, addresses the municipality’s                and commuting patterns. The local vision is accompanied               moved, freight and cargo or the people in a vehicle, arrives safe   Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC):
        plan for residential and commercial development                  by a summary of the visions and plans produced by other               and promptly. It isn’t easy, but Keeping Utah Moving is what
        around major transit investment corridors to                     entities working on behalf of Kearns and the region. The final                                                                            The WFRC is the Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO)




                                                                                                                                FT
                                                                                                                                               keeps UDOT going” (UDOT).
        maintain and improve the connections between                     part of this chapter provides goals, objectives and actions for                                                                           that covers Box Elder, Davis, Morgan, Salt Lake, Tooele, and
        housing, employment, education, recreation, and                  advancing the vision of Kearns as it relates to transportation.       UDOT has established several core values (shown in Figure           Weber counties. The responsibilities of the WFRC include
        commerce; and                                                                                                                          X) that guide its transportation planning for the state. Kearns     regional transportation planning. Their current plan, Wasatch
     3. Correlates with the population projections, the
                                                                         Who Plays What Role?                                                  works with UDOT regarding any non-local roads within and            Choice 2050, along with the WFRC Regional Transportation
                                                                                                                                               adjacent to Kearn’s boundaries, such as 5415 S., Mountain           Plan 2019-2050, are discussed in more detail further on in
        employment projections, and the proposed land use                Transportation planning is a collaborative effort. Several            View Corridor, and Bangerter Highway. UDOT’s Active                 this chapter. Kearns works with the WFRC on several regional
        element of the general plan.                                     groups contribute to the visioning, provision, maintenance,           Transportation Division provides support and funding to             initiatives and is eligible for funding from the WFRC for various




                                                                                 A
                                                                         and enforcement of transportation systems and infrastructure          municipalities implementing initiatives regarding walking           transportation projects.
                                                                         in Kearns.                                                            and biking. State funding for transportation projects is only
     Kearns has access to two major transit investment
     corridors, which warrant special consideration in this              Kearns’ Residents:                                                    available to localities that meet Senate Bill 34 requirements
     plan. The first of these is 6200 South - West with core                                                                                   about planning for Moderate-Income Housing.
     bus service by UTA at 15 minute frequencies. The second
     is 5400 South Corridor, also with core bus service at 15
     minute frequencies.




     In May 2019, 124 Kearns residents
                                                                              DR
                                                                         Residents use Kearns’ transportation system and infrastructure
                                                                         on a daily basis. No other group is better prepared to identify
                                                                         strengths and challenges of existing conditions. Residents also
                                                                         set a community vision for Kearns’ transportation in the future.
                                                                         This vision is summarized later on in this chapter.
                                                                         Great Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD):
                                                                         The MSD provides planning and development services to
                                                                                                                                                    Figure X: UDOT Guiding Vision & Principles




     completed a survey as a part of the                                 Kearns. It helped in the facilitation and drafting of this General
     Master Transportation Planning process                              Plan and will continue to support Kearns in the implementation
     (see pg. 26). The three most significant transportation             of this plan after adoption.
     challenges identified by survey respondents were:
                                                                         Salt Lake County (SLCo):
          1. Safety (speeding, running lights, accidents)
          2. Poor Pavement Conditions, and                               Salt Lake County Public Works Engineering Department
          3. Traffic Congestion on Roads.                                (Public Works Engineering) provides engineering services to
                                                                         the MSD, including Kearns Metro Township. Services include
     Each of these issues are addressed in the content of                building and maintaining local roadways and sidewalks,
     this element, as well as in the Transportation Work                 administering encroachment, excavation and special event
     Program included at the end of this chapter.                        permits, and enforcing stormwater (MS4) management
                                                                         compliance.                                                                Source: UDOT, 2020.
Kearns General Plan                                                                                                                       4                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Transportation

      What do we mean by Connectivity?                                       Existing Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                   A recently approved subdivision features
      The term ‘connectivity’ is used frequently throughout this             Kearns experiences several transportation-related challenges.                                         several homes which back onto Oquirrh
      chapter of the General Plan. But what does it mean? In a               One of the greatest of these is the railroad track which runs all                                     Park and the Olympic Oval area. Yet,
      1997 street design study, it was described this way:                   the way through the Metro Township, essentially splitting it in                                       there are no pathways connecting
                                                                             half (east and west side). Crossings over this track are limited,                                     residents in the subdivision to this park.
      “Connectivity is a system of streets with multiple                     and only three formal vehicular crossings exist within Kearns’                                        Instead, residents must exit the cul-de-
      routes and connections serving the same origins and                    boundaries (although residents have made several informal                                             sac and enter 4800 W (Cougar Lane)
      destinations. . . . An area with high connectivity has                 walking paths across the tracks). Figures X and Y show                                                to gain access to the park and recreation
                                                                             informal crossings (yellow arrows) and formal crossings (green                                        amenities. A bike lane does exist along
      multiple points of access around its perimeter as well as
                                                                             arrows) used by students to access Kearns High School.                                                Cougar Lane, but it is unbuffered from
      a dense system of parallel routes and cross-connections
                                                                                                                                                                                   vehicular traffic. By 2030, 12,500 cars will
      within the area.” — James M. Daisa
                                                                             Another challenge is posed by Kearns’ street pattern. While the                                       pass on this road daily, making the current
                                                                             east side of the Metro Township is generally laid out as a well-    Photo credit: Moore Homes 2020.   biking facility unsafe. Making provisions
      The Kearns General Plan takes it one step further. We
                                                                             connected grid, the west half has been developed primarily                                            for walking and biking infrastructure is
      consider a connected place to be one where people,
                                                                             using cul-de-sacs. These roads dead-end at residential                                                crucial to ensuring resident access to
      regardless of age, income, or ability, can grocery                                                                                                                           amenities into the future.
                                                                             addresses and make it almost impossible to walk or bike to
      shop, receive education, engage in recreation and
                                                                             major destinations. Residents located near parks or shopping
      entertainment, obtain healthcare, and participate fully




                                                                                                                                  FT
                                                                             centers often have no through path to the amenity, and must
      in civic life. None of these things are possible without
                                                                             leave their neighborhood and access an arterial or collector
      adequate infrastructure to deliver an individual from                  road in order to gain access. As such, households continue to
      origin to destination. But a grid of connected streets                 rely on cars as their primary means of travel, worsening traffic
      does not, in and of itself, connect residents to needed                congestion, noise, and air quality.
      resources and amenities. Thus, transportation planning
      is a means to an end.                                                  However, there are several assets in Kearns which can be




                                                                                     A
                                                                             leveraged to provide a stronger transportation network and a
      The transportation element explores how to connect                     better quality of life. Six UTA bus routes currently run through
      people with the things that they need, whether or not a                Kearns, connecting residents to a regional transportation
      person has access to a private automobile or the ability               system. Two streets within Kearns have been designated as
      to drive.




Figures X and Y: Formal and Informal Crossings to Kearns High School.
                                                                                  DR
                                                                             Major Transit Investment Corridors, which means that regional
                                                                             agencies will continue to plan for and invest in these roadways
                                                                             far into the future. The Metro Township benefits from wide
                                                                             sidewalk coverage, and recent plans and projects have
                                                                             prioritized active transportation and community gathering.




Figures provided by Avenue Consultants for the Kearns Master Transportation Plan 2020.
Kearns General Plan                                                                                                                         6                                                                                7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Transportation

      What does transportation have to do with                               Engaging the Community                                          Land Use and Transportation Survey 2020
      housing affordability?
                                                                              Kearns residents provided input regarding transportation       The Land Use and Transportation Survey (2020) utilized                        as less important to the overall development of Kearns. But
      In the pursuit of lower housing costs, many people have                 through an MSD Workshop hosted on X, at a community            an online program, Survey 1-2-3, to ask MSD-area residents                    a majority of respondents (> 60%) still felt that these were
      moved farther away from urban centers and their places                  workshop hosted in December of 2019, and via the Land          about their transportation and land use concerns and values.                  important considerations. Kearns was the only community
      of employment (CITATION). However, this too has costs.                  Use and Transportation Survey administered by the MSD in       Included among the 14 questions was a spatial mapping                         responding to the Land Use and Transportation Survey that
      The average American household will spend $9,004 on                     spring of 2020. The long-range planning team also worked       component that allowed residents to share site-specific                       ranked unsafe travel as its top concern.
      transportation costs this year (Hamm 2020). Kearns                      extensively with the Kearns General Plan Steering Committee    concerns and opportunities. The survey was sent by email
      households will spend $7,478.93, roughly 11.9% of their                 to identify strengths and weaknesses in existing conditions    to local leaders across the MSD member communities (e.g.                      Important revelations from the land use portion of the survey
      total expenditures (Esri Business Analyst 2020).                        and develop a set of goals and objectives for Kearns’ future   Councilors, Planning Commissioners, General Plan Steering                     also deserve mention here. 54 respondents, or 100% of the
                                                                              transportation network. A few themes emerged during these      Committees) and posted on social media accounts and                           surveyed population of Kearns, responded that clean air is
      Access to low-cost, high-quality transportation can                     engagement opportunities:                                      associated websites in April and May 2020. Between 4/9/20                     ‘important’ or ‘very important’ to the future development
      significantly improve cost of living, especially for low-                                                                              and 5/14/20, 464 responses to the survey were received across                 of the area. Transportation is the largest source of human-
      income households. If an individual can walk, bike, or                  •   Kearns residents value a highly-connected                  all MSD member communities, and 54 residents from Kearns                      induced greenhouse gas emissions in our atmosphere (EPA
      take public transit to work, he or she may be able to get by                transportation system, especially where it provides        responded. The transportation-related results of the survey are               2018). Thus, how we plan our transportation infrastructure
      without a personal automobile. This eliminates monthly                      opportunities for people to take transit, walk, or         shown in Figure X.                                                            will have significant impacts on air quality.
      car payments, insurance payments, maintenance and                           bike to and from schools, parks, and civic amenities.




                                                                                                                               FT
      fuel costs. This money can be re-directed to housing                                                                                   Unsafe travel and traffic congestion were marked as ‘important’               Affordability of housing was also identified as ‘important’ or
      costs or other essentials such as food or healthcare. If                •   Kearns desires safe and quiet residential                  or ‘very important’ considerations by nearly all respondents                  ‘very important’ by 94% of respondents. Transportation and
      Kearns truly desires to keep its housing affordable, one                    neighborhoods, with minimal through-traffic and            from Kearns. Residences were also highly concerned about                      housing are strongly linked, and the quality of transportation
      of the best things it can do is invest in its transportation                enforced speed limits.                                     inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure. Inability                  infrastructure can greatly impact the ability of an individual
      infrastructure.                                                         •   Kearns residents feel threatened by traffic noise          to effectively trip chain, inadequate bicycle and/or pedestrian               to afford his or her housing costs. See Figure X for more
                                                                                  and congestion and worsening air quality.                  information, and inadequate public transportation were seen                   information.
      “You can afford to spend $200,000 more




                                                                                      A
                                                                              •   Kearns recognizes the importance of integrating,
      on a house if you can get by with only                                                                                                        Figure X: Count of Respondents Identifying Transportation-Related Concerns as Important or Very
                                                                                  land use, housing, and transportation decisions in
      one car.” ~ Money After Graduation, 2015.                                                                                                     Important to the Future Development of Kearns.
                                                                                  order to build a strong community.

 Figure X: The Relationship Between Housing and Transportation Costs.


                                                                                   DR
Figure adapted from KSWUrban. See original figure on Twitter, using #citymakingmath.
                                                                                                                                                    Results from the Land Use and Transportation Survey 2020, Kearns residents only.
Kearns General Plan                                                                                                                     8                                                                                                                                                   9
                                                                                                                                Transportation

                                                          SWOT Analysis and APAE
     Steering Committee Input:
                                                          The SWOT and APAE analyses conducted at the Community
     Throughout the general planning                      Workshop held in December 2019 made several references to
     process, members of the Kearns General               transportation infrastructure.
     Plan Steering Committee (GPSC) weighed
     in on several planning topics and helped             SWOT: Some of the key strengths of Kearns existing
     to set a vision forward for their community.         transportation network were identified as the robust service
                                                          from UTA’s six bus routes and Kearns’ central location within
     During the summer of 2020, we asked                  the Salt Lake Valley. Kearns residents enjoy close proximity to
     members to submit pictures of things they            several local and regional destinations, which can be leveraged
     liked and disliked in their neighborhoods            through expanded transportation options. Overcrowded on-
     and around Kearns. Members responded                 street parking and increasing traffic congestion, especially that
     with several images and detailed notes               which comes from USANA amphitheatre, were identified as
     that helped to inform this plan.                     weaknesses in the current transportation system. Residents also
                                                          noted several locations which could benefit from the addition
     Members expressed their love for Kearns’             of crosswalks or changes to intersection design and traffic
     tight-knit community and the abundance




                                                                                                                 FT
                                                          light timing. The opportunities identified by participants in the
     of recreational amenities. Items that were           SWOT analysis pertained primarily to active transportation
     disliked included the accumulation of                and public transit. In general , residents wanted to see expanded
     litter and outdoor storage in residential            service and better bus stop infrastructure from UTA. They saw
     neighborhoods as well as overburdened                opportunities to improve walkability in their neighborhoods
     on-street parking (see Figure X). On-                through the addition of lighting and additional crosswalks,
     street parking was also discussed fervently          especially near the library and proposed Town Center.
     during the SWOT and APAE exercises.




                                                                  A
     Residents say the overcrowding of parked             APAE: This exercise re-iterated the idea that Kearns residents
     cars on residential streets makes it difficult       value their existing active transportation infrastructure.
     for snow plows to maintain roads in                  Participants expressed their desire to preserve existing
     winter and for residents to navigate their           bike lanes and crosswalks as well as their ‘small-town feel’.
     neighborhoods. Kearns residents also
     found the abundance of cars unsightly.



   Figure X: Kearns On-Street Parking
                                                               DR
                                                          Residents also wanted to achieve better access to public
                                                          transit, increased non-motorized connectivity (through trails
                                                          and paths), and reductions in traffic congestion and speeding.
                                                          The community values its residential neighborhoods, and the
                                                          APAE shows it as comments were raised related to reducing
                                                          the burden on residential on-street parking, slowing down
                                                          through-traffic, and eliminating reckless driving. High-level
                                                          goals included avoiding poor air quality and eliminating
                                                          unsustainable government spending. Both of these have
                                                          implications for transportation. Air quality can be improved
                                                          through the reduction of vehicle miles traveled, or in other
                                                          words, investing in active transportation and public transit
                                                          infrastructure. This transportation element will set the priorities
                                                          for transportation planning and spending moving forward to
                                                          ensure that government actions align with the vision of the
                                                          Kearns community.
   Photo submitted by Laura Koester, GPSC Member, 2020.




Kearns General Plan                                                                                                       10                11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Transportation
                                                                                                                                         Figure X: Existing Level of Service on Kearns Roadways.
     What is the Functional Street Classification                   Street Classifications and Level of Service
     System?                                                        There are five functional classes of streets in Kearns Metro
                                                                    Township. These are labeled in the Figure X, and each class
     The functional classification of streets describes the
                                                                    type is described in more detail in Table X. There are three
     grouping of streets or highways into ‘classes’ based on
                                                                    principal arterials in Kearns: 4700 S, 5400 S, and 5600 W.
     the character of service they are intended to provide:
                                                                    Only one minor arterial exists (6200 S), and the rest of the
     namely volume, vehicular speeds and access points
                                                                    classified streets are considered collector roads. Any street in
     (FHWA 2000). This classification is important for
                                                                    Kearns not classified as an arterial or collector will be referred
     understanding how roads in a network relate to one
                                                                    to as a ‘residential’ or ‘neighborhood’ street throughout this
     another. See Table X for more information on how
                                                                    chapter of the general plan. Note that there are no freeways
     Kearns’ streets are classified.
                                                                    or expressways running through the Metro Township; however,
     What is Level of Service?                                      Bangerter Highway and Mountain View Corridor are within
                                                                    close proximity to Kearns’ boundaries.
     Level of service describes the relationship between
     the capacity of a road and the amount of vehicular             Both 6200 S and 4700 S receive an “F” grade for level of
     traffic that the road actually receives. Level of service is   service as they pass through the eastern part of Kearns. This
                                                                    means that there are significant delays on these roads and




                                                                                                                          FT
     displayed as a letter grade ranging from A to F. “A-C”
     represent stable conditions. A “D” rating means that           capacity has been exceeded. 4800 W (Cougar Lane) and
     a roadway is approaching unstable conditions, and              4015 W, as well as part of 6200 S, are approaching unstable
     “E-F”rated roads are currently unstable (traffic volumes       conditions (rated “D”). These streets are extremely important
     are regularly exceeding capacity).                             to the success of Kearns, as they provide access to the Olympic
                                                                    Oval and the proposed Kearns Town Center. A road-widening
                                                                    project proposed for 6200 S may alter the Level of Service.          Map created by Avenue Consultants for the Kearns Master Transportation Plan 2020.




                                                                            A
Table X: Explanation of Street Classifications in Kearns.                                                                                Figure X: Functional Classification of Kearns Roadways.




                                                                         DR
                                                                                                                                         Map created by Avenue Consultants for the Kearns Master Transportation Plan 2020.
Adapted from the Kearns Master Transportation Plan 2020.
Kearns General Plan                                                                                                                12                                                                                                    13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Transportation

  Traffic Load                                                                                                                                                                                                                        The USANA Amphitheatre
  Annual average daily traffic load (AADT) is the total                                                                                         Projected Conditions: Wasatch Front Regional Council                       The USANA (after USANA Health Sciences) is an
  volume of traffic on a given road over the course of a year,                                                                                  provides forecasted traffic volumes for the year 2030. In the              outdoor amphitheater with a capacity of 20,000
  divided by 365 days. This gives us an estimate of how many                                                                                    next ten years, traffic counts are expected to increase on                 people. It draws performances from star musicians in
  vehicles we can expect on our roads daily. The most recent                                                                                    most streets within Kearns. However, the forecasted AADT                   every genre, having hosted such names as: Santana,
  AADT data is for the year 2016 and comes from the Utah                                                                                        on Kearns’ roads still remains low relative to other areas in              Green Day, Willie Nelson, and Blink-182.
  Department of Transportation (UDOT).                                                                                                          Salt Lake County. 6200 S will continue to be the busiest
                                                                                                                                                arterial through Kearns (projected AADT of 42,500). But                    Although not technically located in Kearns, the USANA
  Current Conditions: Traffic volumes are heaviest on the                                                                                       AADT along 5400 S will also increase with the anticipated                  has a significant impact on the community. Show
  periphery of Kearns, particularly along 6200 S, 4700 S,                                                                                       development of the Kearns Town Center. Although it is not                  attendees from the southwest part of the valley can
  and 5600 W. The primary east-west connection through                                                                                          located within Kearns, Mountain View Corridor connects the                 take Mountain View Corridor almost all the way to the
  the Metro Township, 5400 South, which will also run past                                                                                      Metro Township to regional destinations. By 2030, AADT on                  amphitheater, exiting and driving just a couple blocks
  the proposed Town Center, receives 19,000 AADT (UDOT                                                                                          Mountain View west of Kearns is expected to increase from less             through Kearns, but most people access the site from cities
  2016). This is compared to 39,000 AADT received on                 Looking West on 6200 South. This arterial experiences the greatest         than 10,000 vehicles per day to over 40,000. Traffic volume                to the east or north. These visitors are directed through
  6200 S east of Cougar Lane (the highest traffic count in           traffic volume in Kearns. By 2030, Wasatch Front Regional Council          on residential roads will also increase into the next decade               the heart of Kearns along 5400 S. Thus on weekend
  Kearns). Interior collector roads receive far less traffic, with   predicts that over 40,000 cars will traverse this stretch of road daily.   as the population of the area grows. This increase in traffic              nights in the summer, Kearns residents are faced with
  none exceeding 3,000 AADT, as shown by the blue lines              (Photo credit: Google Maps Street View 2019)                               volume (and presumably congestion) is likely to underscore the             the traffic of 20,000 individuals. 5400 S is lined almost




                                                                                                                                 FT
  on the map.                                                                                                                                   need for active transportation infrastructure, all while creating          exclusively with residential uses. Unsurprisingly, noise
                                                                                                                                                challenges for infrastructure already in existence.                        and traffic congestion from the USANA has become a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           major source of complaints from Kearns’ residents.

        Figure X: Traffic Volumes (AADT) for Kearns, 2016.                                                                                         Figure X: Projected Traffic Volumes (AADT) for the Year 2030.




                                                                                   A
                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                DR
       Map created by Avenue Consultants for the Kearns Master Transportation Plan 2020.                                                           Map created by MSD Long-Range Planning, using projections of AADT from Wasatch Front Regional Council for the year 2030.
Kearns General Plan                                                                                                                       14                                                                                                                                             15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Transportation

     Did You Know?                                                        Traffic Safety                                                        Figure Y: Pedestrian and Bike Crashes.
     92.7% of adults in Kearns wear seatbelts!                            Unsafe travel was the number one transportation-related
     (Data from 2016-2018 data SLCo Health Dept)                          concern of Kearns residents responding to the 2020 Land Use
                                                                          and Transportation Survey. Figures X, Y, and Z show manner
     According to the Center for Disease Control, wearing a               and severity of crash for automobile and pedestrian/bicyclist
     seat belt while in the front seat of a car can reduce risk           crashes between 2013 and 2019.
     of death by 45% and risk of serious injury by 50% in the
     event of a crash (CDC 2011). Wearing seatbelts saves                 Figure X reveals that 3,354 crashes occurred during this time
     lives . Keep it up Kearns!                                           period. Angled crashes (crashes with vehicles turning left)
                                                                          were most common. But the map also reveals a huge number
                                                                          of crashes with parked vehicles (418 in total). These occurred
     In the Land Use and
                                                                          primarily on residential streets, again pointing to an overtaxed
                                                                          on-street parking infrastructure.
     Transportation Survey, residents
     had the ability to identify areas of                                 Between 2013 and 2019, 86 crashes occurred involving people
     concern on a map. Several of their                                   who were walking or biking (Figure Y). Four of these crashes
     submissions related to transportation                                resulted in fatalities, although only one bicycle crash was
     infrastructure. Respondents identified




                                                                                                                                 FT
                                                                          fatal (intersection of 5415 S and Northwest Avenue). Crashes
     the intersection of Cougar Lane and                                  involving people walking and biking occurred primarily along
     5415 S and the intersection of 6200 S
                                                                          Kearns’ busiest roads, including: 4700 S, 5415 S, 6200 S, and
     and Cougar Lane as two particularly
                                                                          4015 W. Only two of the crashes involved a driver under the
     congested and unsafe areas.
                                                                          influence of alcohol. Figure Z shows the severity of all crashes in
                                                                          Kearns during this time period. 83 crashes resulted in fatalities
                                                                          or serious injuries.                                                  Map created by MSD Long-Range Planning, using data from the Kearns Master Transportation Plan 2020.




                                                                                   A
              Figure X: Manner of Crash.                                                                                                        Figure Z: Crash Severity.




                                                                                DR
             Map created by Avenue Consultants for the Kearns Master Transportation Plan 2020.                                                  Map created by Avenue Consultants for the Kearns Master Transportation Plan 2020.
Kearns General Plan                                                                                                                       16                                                                                                                      17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Land Use

   Public Transportation                                                                                                                    Major Transit Investment Corridors                                       What are Major Transit Investment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Corridors?
   Bus service through Kearns is widespread and frequent, with            However, there are still challenges to access which prevent       6200 South – West (Core Bus Service, 15 min
   most routes departing every 15 minutes. Routes connect                 most Kearns residents from adopting public transit as their       frequency): Bus Route 62 provides access to the Fashion                  In compliance with State Code, every municipality
   Kearns residents to major regional destinations, including             main mode of transportation. According to the Land Use and        Place Mall TRAX Station. It runs in an east/west direction               with access to a major transit investment corridor must
   Murray Central Station (with connection to TRAX and                    Transportation Survey, only one respondent reported riding        along 6200 South, the busiest arterial through Kearns. By                consider that corridor in the transportation element of
   FrontRunner lines) and Fashion Place Mall.                             the bus daily. Census data reveals that less than five percent    the year 2020, WFRC expects 6200 S to be widened to                      the general plan. According to § 10-9a-103. . .
                                                                          of Kearns’ population uses public transit to get to work,         seven lanes. The MPO also plans on adding a bike lane
   “Isolated, there are few                                               although females ride transit more often than males (ACS          with access to the Jordan River Parkway. UTA currently                   “‘Major transit investment corridor’ means public transit
   options connecting to
                                                                          5-Year Estimates 2018). The amount of transfers required to       reports that the average cumulative weekday boarding                     service that uses or occupies:
                                                                          get from Point A to Point B using the bus system is what makes
   anywhere we need to go. It takes
                                                                                                                                            for all stops in Kearns along 6200 S is eight, and most
                                                                          this form of transportation particularly difficult. Although
   multiple transfers to get to any
                                                                                                                                            of these occur heading east out of Kearns (UTA 2020).                    1.   Public transit rail right-of-way;
                                                                          several routes serve Kearns, routes intersect in few places.      This may change in the future as development continues
   shopping or downtown and you still                                     Where intersections do occur, there is often a shortage of                                                                                 2. Dedicated road right-of-way for the use of public
                                                                                                                                            to occur west of Kearns.
   have to end up walking. It’s terribly                                  stops, so residents must walk a distance to catch the next bus.                                                                               transit, such as bus rapid transit; or

   inconvenient and takes 3-4 times
                                                                          This problem is exacerbated by a lack of seating and bus stop     5400 South Corridor (Core Bus Service, 15 min                            3. Fixed-route bus corridors subject to an interlocal
                                                                          infrastructure to protect people waiting. UTA reports that most
   longer than driving. It ends up being                                                                                                    frequency): Bus Route 54 runs to Murray Central Station                     agreement or contract between a municipality or
                                                                          boardings occur as routes head east out of Kearns, and route                                                                                  county and:
   totally impractical.”




                                                                                                                             FT
                                                                                                                                            in an east/west direction along 5415 S. This corridor is also
                                                                          54 (along 5400 S) is the busiest (UTA 2020). Many stops
                                                                                                                                            one of Kearns’ main connections to Bangerter Highway.                         •    a public transit district as defined in Section 17B-
                                                                          throughout the Metro Township receive zero daily boardings
                                                                                                                                            WFRC and UDOT anticipate that this will remain a transit                           2a-802; or
   - Land Use and Transportation Survey 2020                              on average. Small adjustments to UTA’s bus routes could
   Respondent, on Public Transit Service in Residential                   make a huge difference for residents.
                                                                                                                                            route for the next several years. The 5400 transit corridor                   •    an eligible political subdivision as defined in
   Neighborhoods.                                                                                                                           will become even more important to Kearns’ development                             Section 59-12-2219.
                                                                                                                                            in the future as the Town Center comes to fruition.

    Figure Z: UTA Bus Routes and Stops through Kearns.                                                                                         Figure Z: Major Transit Investment Corridors.




                                                                                  A
                                                                               DR
    Map created by MSD Long-Range Planning, using data from the Kearns Master Transportation Plan 2020.                                        Map created by MSD Long-Range Planning, using data from Wasatch Front Regional Council 2020.
Kearns General Plan                                                                                                                   18                                                                                                                                              19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Transportation

     What are the benefits of walking and biking                 Active Transportation                                                 Figures X, Y and Z: Kearns Active Transportation.
     to a community?
                                                                 Use of active forms of transportation, such as walking and
                                                                 biking, benefits community health, air quality, and cost of living
     From cost-savings, to health improvements, to
                                                                 (Plan 4 Health 2020). Responses to the 2020 Land Use and
     environmental restoration - the benefits of investing in
                                                                 Transportation Survey revealed that only two respondents
     walking and biking infrastructure are numerous. For
                                                                 bike daily, and 33 respondents never bike. Walking was more
     more information on why communities are increasingly
                                                                 popular, with nineteen respondents reporting that they walk
     turning to active transportation, visit Plan4Health.
                                                                 daily, while only seven respondents said they never walk. It may
                                                                 be tempting to interpret these results as a lack of desire for                                                                                            Paved multi-use path along 4700
                                                                 walking and biking in Kearns. But it is important to remember                                                                                             South. Photo credit: Google Maps
                                                                 that these numbers only speak to the number of people                                                                                                     Street View 2019.
                                                                 who walk and bike given the current conditions of active
                                                                 transportation infrastructure. The survey results revealed
                                                                 that inadequate walking and biking infrastructure was an
                                                                 ‘important’ or ‘very important’ transportation concern for 80%
                                                                 of respondents. As improvements are made to infrastructure,
                                                                 usage is likely to increase.




                                                                                                                        FT
                                                                 Kearns benefits from extensive sidewalk coverage, as shown in
                                                                 Figure X. However, the netowrk of sidewalks is cut-off by the                                                                                             Conventional bike lane on Cougar
                                                                 railroad tracks. Pedestrians can only cross the tracks safely in                                                                                          Lane in Kearns offers limited
                                                                 two places: 5400 S and 6200 S. Although there is a vehicular                                                                                              protection from traffic. Photo credit:
                                                                 crossing at 4700 S, no sidewalk is present.                                                                                                               Google Maps Street View 2019.




                                                                         A
                                                                 Kearns residents have expressed their desire to preserve
                                                                 existing walking and biking facilities, but improvements to
                                                                 these facilities are still needed. There is currently only one bike
                                                                 lane in Kearns, running north-south from 5400 S to 6200 S




     In the Land Use and
                                                                      DR
                                                                 via Cougar Lane. The existing lane is separated from major
                                                                 destinations and neighborhood byways by arterial roads
                                                                 with no biking infrastructure. Additionally, the existing facility
                                                                 is a conventional bike lane with no protection from vehicular
                                                                 traffic (Figure X). This type of facility is inadequate for Cougar
                                                                 Lane, which receives a traffic load of over 14,000 cars daily at
                                                                 speeds exceeding 35 mph.

                                                                Figure X: Pathway into Harmon’s Cougar Lane.
     Transportation Survey, one                                                                                                                                   Mapped sidewalk inventory from MTP. Note: this will need to be
     respondent voiced their appreciation
                                                                                                                                                                  updated from what is in the plan - see Kate’s notes.
     for the Harmon’s at 6200 S/Cougar
     Lane. This grocery store provides a
     pathway from the store’s entrance,
     through the back fenceline, into the
     residential neighborhoods to the north
     (Figure X). Residents are able to walk
     from their homes to the grocery store
     to obtain food, eliminating congestion
     and emissions from car trips.
                                                                Google Maps Street View 2019.
Kearns General Plan                                                                                                             20                                                                                                                              21
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Transportation

     What is the Americans with Disabilities Act?                  ADA Compliance

     The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA 1990)                It is essential that all Kearns residents feel safe and comfortable
     “prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability          using the transportation network. A person’s ability to use
     in employment, State and local government, public             various transportation facilities may be impacted by visual,
     accommodations, commercial facilities, transportation,        hearing, or mobility impairments. For example, a visual
     and telecommunications” (U.S. Department of Justice,          impairment may prevent someone from being able to drive a
     2020). A person with a disability is defined as someone       car; visual impairments or blindness may also make it difficult
     who has a physical or mental impairment that significantly    for someone to use pedestrian crossings which rely on visual
     hinders one or more major life activities, someone who        symols to indicate when it is safe to walk. Similarly, hearing
     has a history of such impairment, or someone who is           impairments may make it difficult for an individual to navigate
     perceived by others as having such impairment (U.S.           traffic. Approaching cars may go unnoticed, jeapordizing
     Department of Justice, 2020).                                 the safety of the individual. Mobility disabilities may prevent
                                                                   driving, but can also create challenges for walking, biking, and
     ADA Legislation has implications for right-of-way             boarding transit. Sidewalks must be wide, clear of debris, and
     design. New facilities in the right-of-way (road, sidewalk,   include ramps to accommodate wheelchairs, strollers, or other
     gutter, other active transportation infrastructure) must      mobility devices. While an unplowed bus stop may be just an




                                                                                                                          FT
     meet the requirements of ADA, as must any projects            inconvenience for some, it can prevent service entirely to those
     which involve alteration to the right-of-way (Salt Lake       with mobility impairments. In 2018, 2.7 percent of the Kearns
     City Community and Neighborhoods, 2017). Alteration           population reported having hearing difficulty, 2.5% reported
     is diferentiated from maintenance; alteration impacts         a visual impairment, and 4.6% reported having ambulatory
     how a facility is or could be used, while maintenance         difficulty (ACS 5-Year Estimates 2018, Table S1810). In every
     activities simply preserve existing uses. Maintenance         transportation decision made by the Metro Township, the
     projects do not require the implementation of ADA-            unique needs of the population must be considered.




                                                                           A
     compliant infrastructure (Salt Lake City Community
     and Neighborhoods, 2017). When designing for ADA              While ADA compliance is only required of the Metro Township
     accessibility, several items must be considered, including:   in new projects or where major alteration work is occuring,
                                                                   it is the vision of the community that the requirements of the
                                                                                                                                         This page may include street view captures of places that are not
      •
      •

      •
      •
          Sidewalk width and clearance
          Presence, grade, and direction of ramps from
          sidewalk to or across road
          Presence of detectable warning surfaces
          Visibility of signage and audio pedestrian crossings.

     To learn more, visit the US Access Board.
                                                                        DR
                                                                   Americans with Disabilities Act be not just met, but exceeded.
                                                                   An inventory of transportation facilities is needed to help
                                                                   determine Kearns’ compliance and progress in meeting the
                                                                   needs of its residents with disabilities.
                                                                                                                                         meeting ADA compliance standards. Also working out how to use
                                                                                                                                         WFRC accessibility data.




     This is where public feedback
     will be summarized. It might be
     a quote or connection to the Land
     Use and Transportation Survey, etc.




Kearns General Plan                                                                                                                22                                                                                   23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Transportation

     Did You Know?                                                             What are the transportation habits and patterns of
                                                                               Kearns’ residents?                                                                            work. Carpooling is slightly more popular among females than           access to zero or only one vehicle at home (Figure X). These
     Transportation preferences vary by
                                                                                                                                                                             males. The biggest discrepancies between commuting modes               individuals are more likely to rely on active transportation
     gender, race, age and ability!                                            Kearns is primarily a bedroom community. Only 209 residents                                   actually occur between members of the Kearns population                infrastructure and public transit to access employment,
                                                                               both live and work in Kearns (Figure X). 15,191 residents                                     identifying as Hispanic and those identifying as White, Non-           groceries, education, and essential services.
     •   Women are more risk-adverse than men. They are                        commute out of the community to other destinations in Salt                                    Hispanic. For example, nearly 30% of residents identifying as
         less likely to walk or bike if existing infrastructure feels          Lake Valley and beyond. The majority of the civilian employed                                 Hispanic carpool to work (twice that of the percentage of the          For the population that commutes out of Kearns, the most
         unsafe or uncomfortable (NACTO 2017).                                 labor force drives alone to work (Figure X). Carpooling is also                               total population). Hispanic residents are also far more likely to      common employment destinations are Salt Lake City and
     •   People of color, particularly Black and Latinx                        popular, with over 15% of the population choosing to carpool to                               take public transit, with over 15% using this as their mode of         West Valley City (OnTheMap 2017). Most of these residents
         individuals, fear exposure to theft, assault, or                                                                                                                    transportation to work (ACS 5-Year Estimates, 2018). Use of            travel less than 50 miles to their place of employment.
         racial profiling by enforcement officers while using                                                           Figure X: How Many Cars Do We Have Access To?        public transit also varies by gender, with females being more          People commuting into Kearns for work come from all
         conventional bike lanes (NACTO 2017). Protected                                                                                                                     likely to use transit than males (Figure X). Less than 5% of           directions, sometimes traveling over 50 miles from their homes
         bike lanes, separate from vehicular traffic serve this                                                                                                              Kearns’ civilian labor force works from home (Figure X).               (OnTheMap 2017).
         population better.




                                                                        Source: ACS 5-Year Estimates, 2018 (Table X).
     •   Important transportation considerations must also                                                                                                                   The majority of Kearns residents have three vehicles available         Despite a high reliance on automobiles for travel, Kearns
         be made on the basis of age. Children are less                                                                                                                      at home (Figure X). This is evident of a highly autocentric            residents spend 17% less than the average American household
         visible to drivers, so care must be taken to buffer                                                                                                                 community culture. However, nearly 12% of the population has           on transportation-related costs (Esri Business Analyst 2020).




                                                                                                                                                              FT
         them from traffic. Older members of the population
         may have vision or mobility impairments that need
         consideration. These age groups are also less likely                                                                                                                 Figure X: Inflow and Outflow of Commuters in Kearns.
         to have the ability to drive, making them more
         dependent on active transportation and public
         transit.




                                                                                                                           A
     For more on planning facilities for all ages and abilities,
     see NACTO’s 2017 Guide.


              Figure X: Kearns’ Commute Modes by Gender, 2018.



                                                                                                                        DR
             Source: ACS 5-Year Estimates, 2018 (Table X).                                                                                                                    Figure created by MSD Long-Range Planning, using data from OnTheMap 2017.
Kearns General Plan                                                                                                                                                     24                                                                                                                                      25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Transportation

     The Value of Regional Planning                               Drawing from Other Plans
                                                                                                                                         Figure X shows active transportation and public transit                The RTP also designates important land use areas. Two
                                                                                                                                         projects planned for the Kearns area, according to the RTP.            neighborhood centers are proposed within Kearns: West
     Transportation planning cannot occur in isolation.           Kearns Master Transportation Plan: A Master                            WFRC proposes three transit line projects (5415 S, 6200 S,             Ridge Center and Oquirrh Park Center. Neighborhood centers
     Streets often cross political boundaries, neighborhood       Transportation Plan was crafted for Kearns and adopted in              and 5600 W). The 5415 S and 6200 S transit lines are both              are proposed to revolve around a single store or civic building
     districts, and various land uses, transporting people and    2019 by Avenue Consultants. This plan examined existing                proposed as core service bus routes (routes with 15 minute or          (such as a library or school). Buildings in neighborhood centers
     goods to destinations near and far. For a transportation     conditions and collected comprehensive input from the                  less frequency, expanded hours of operation, and enhanced              will vary in height from one to three stories, and some housing
     system to work, it must be considered from both regional     community. Feedback from the public was gathered through               bus stop infrastructure). 5415 S is expected to receive                will be allowed (townhomes, small-scale apartment buildings,
     and local perspectives. The transportation policies of       an in-person pop-up event at Kearns Oquirrh Park Fitness               improvements during Phase 1 (2019-2030), while 6200 S                  and small single-family homes). These areas will be accessed
     West Valley City inevitably impact Kearns and vice-versa.    Center, an online survey (124 respondents), and an interactive         will not be upgraded until Phase 2 (2031-2040). 5600 W                 by walkable and bike-friendly streets, as well as frequent transit
                                                                  project website (1,400 website visits). The completed master           is proposed as an express bus route (tailored to commuters             service. The proposed Kearns Town Center is identified as a
     When multiple jurisdictions work together, greater goals     plan included:                                                         during peak hours) and is included in Phase 1.                         city center in the RTP, providing services to tens of thousands
     can be achieved. Individual municipalities in western Salt                                                                                                                                                 of people in a two or three mile radius. City centers will be
     Lake Valley may work together to improve commuter            •   A proposed capital facilities plan with a timeline for             Several active transportation projects are proposed in Kearns.         serviced by a variety of street types, and residential uses of
     lines to Salt Lake City. Kearns may coordinate with              implementation.                                                    The majority of these are bike facilities recommended for              medium-density will be allowed. All of these proposed uses
     other cities and metro townships along Mountain View         •   A functional classification of Kearns’ street typologies.          Phase 1 or Phase 2. WFRC’s plan does include a shared use              are consistent with the character areas identified later in this
     Corridor to improve access to the planned inland port.                                                                              path along the canal in the northeast corner of Kearns. This           General Plan. It is important to note that the RTP is a plan and
     Efforts of Salt Lake City to expand the International        •   Data on traffic volumes, collisions, level of service, public
                                                                                                                                         project is expected to occur during Phase 3, and will be an            not necessarily an exact determination of future development.




                                                                                                                        FT
     Airport may improve the ability of Kearns to conduct             transit routes and stops, and existing walking and biking
                                                                      infrastructure.                                                    anticipated three miles long when completed.
     trade and attract tourism spending. Kearns benefits
     from the regional planning efforts of Wasatch Front          •   Analysis of existing areas of concern in Kearns’
     Regional Council. This entity works with representatives         transportation infrastructure.                                   Figure X: Future Transportation Projects Planned In and Around Kearns (RTP 2019-2050)
     from various northern Utah jurisdictions in order to form    •   An outlined plan for sidewalk improvement and expansion.
     a cohesive vision for the future of the region. The WFRC
                                                                  •   And a plan for the location and design of future street
     2019-2050 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) is




                                                                          A
                                                                      classifications and walking and biking facilities.
     discussed in further detail to the right.

                                                                  This land use element re-establishes the goals and objectives
                                                                  of Kearns’ residents related to transportation. It is not meant to




     This is where public feedback
     will be summarized. It might be
                                                                       DR
                                                                  override the Master Transportation Plan. In fact, many of the
                                                                  goals and objectives identified by the community add further
                                                                  support to the content of the Kearns Master Transportation
                                                                  Plan. The Plan will be referenced throughout this element and
                                                                  should continue to be used by Kearns Metro Township and
                                                                  regional entities to guide decision-making.

                                                                  Wasatch Front Regional Council 2019-2050 Regional
                                                                  Transportation Plan (RTP): The RTP is a fiscally
     a quote or connection to the Land                            constrained plan for regional transportation improvements
     Use and Transportation Survey, etc.                          along the Wasatch Front over the next 20 to 30 years. It is
                                                                  just one element of a larger vision, the Wasatch Choice 2050.
                                                                  The RTP proposes roadway, transit, active transportation, and
                                                                  land use projects that work together to achieve the goals of the
                                                                  Wasatch Choice 2050. WFRC’s RTP planning process took
                                                                  place over three years and involved extensive engagement
                                                                  with local planners and elected officials, industry leaders,
                                                                  residents, and other key stakeholders. For more information,
                                                                  view the whole plan.

                                                                                                                                       Map created by MSD Long-Range Planning, using data from Wasatch Front Regional Council 2020.
Kearns General Plan                                                                                                               26                                                                                                                                                 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Transportation

   Moving Forward                                                                                                                                The Work Program
   On January 30th, 2020, members of the Greater Salt Lake                    Any item that received greater than eight votes (25% of            The next pages detail the transportation work program for
   MSD Planning Commissions, Councils, General Plan Steering                  participants) is considered a priority. The top four most voted-   Kearns Metro Township. Tables are laid out in a series of
   Committees, and some members of the public residing in MSD                 upon values and principles were:                                   goals, objectives, and actions to help the community achieve
   Metro Townships, met to discuss regional transportation values                                                                                its future transportation vision. Every action is accompanied
   and principles. The goals of the meeting included educating                   1.   Clean Air                                                  by technical information about who should lead the initiative,
   local decision-makers on key transportation-planning ideas                    2.   Safe, user-friendly streets for all types of users         the proposed timeline for completion, the estimated cost, and
   and innovative solutions, producing a set of principles and                   3.   Aligning local and regional needs, and                     the metric for success. Resources provided link to useful case
   values to guide transportation planning in MSD areas, and                     4.   Ongoing engagement of stakeholders in local decision       studies, funding sources, or other guidelines for helping Kearns
   finding ways to link MSD areas to outside geographies via                          making.                                                    reach its goals.
   shared transportation priorities. Thirty-two stakeholders                  Each of these received votes from over 30% of participants.
   participated in the event, including residents and community               This transportation element addresses each of the values           The transportation work program is the result of robust data-
   leaders from Kearns, UT.                                                   and principles formulated at the MSD-wide transportation           gathering, coordination with regional transportation plans,
                                                                              workshop. Kearns supports decisions that reduce air pollutants,    and extensive community engagement through surveys,
   Although each MSD community faces unique transportation                    that accommodate users of all ages and abilities, that consider    workshops, and General Plan Steering Committee Meetings.
   challenges and opportunities, they share common core values                regional transportation initiatives, and that create space for
   and principles. Figure X portrays the prioritized list of principles       ongoing community engagement. The work plan that follows




                                                                                                                                  FT
   and values decided upon by participants in January’s meeting.              aligns with these values.



   Figure X: List of MSD Transportation Values and Principles, Ranked




                                                                                         A
                                                                                      DR
   Based on the input of participants at the January 2020 Transportation Planning Principles Workshop.                                            Child rides motorbike with a view of Utah Olympic Oval in the distance. Photo courtesty of Centry Kenyon (2017), derived from Google Maps.


Kearns General Plan                                                                                                                        28                                                                                                                                              29
                                       Transportation

  Transportation Work Program




                                  FT
                                   A
                                DR
Kearns General Plan               30               31
                                                                                                                                                               Transportation
                             What Does It Mean to Plan for People of All Ages
                                                                                                              the least risk-adverse, are likely to use the bike lane, and the
                             and Abilities?
                                                                                                              facility is unlikely to encourage any new riders (NACTO 2017).
                             If the goal is to create a multimodal transportation network that                Several guides exist for planning non-motorized transportation
                             is accessible and useful to all, then it is necessary to implement               infrastructure for persons of all ages and abilities. Figure X
                             facilities that work for all ages and abilities. If a conventional               shows the NACTO guide for choosing bike facilities that
                             bike lane, for example, is placed on a road with high traffic                    accommodate all. Notice that vehicle speeds, traffic volumes,
                             volumes and speeds, noises, confusing intersections, and                         and conflict points all influence the type of facility recommended
                             obstacles (including loading and unloading zones, bus stops,                     for maximum safety and comfort. A conventional bike lane
                             and opening doors), users of the facility are likely to feel unsafe              currently exists on Cougar Lane in Kearns, but Figure X reveals
                             and uncomfortable. Only the most experienced of riders, or                       that the facility is inappropriate for the context of the road.

                                      Figure X: Bike Facilities for All Ages and Abilities (NACTO 2017).




                        FT
                         A
                      DR
                                            Conventional Bike Lane                           Buffered Bike Lane                          Protected Bike Lane




                                         Photo Credit: Raleighnc.gov 2020.           Photo Credit: Corvallisoregon.gov 2020.           Photo Credit: Hoodline 2020.
Kearns General Plan     32                                                                                                                                                  33
                             Transportation




                        FT
                         A
                      DR
Kearns General Plan     34              35
                                                  File # 24679

                                Conditional Use Change Conditions of Approval

Public Body: Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date: August 10, 2020
Parcel ID: 21-07-381-011-2000
Current Zone: R-1-6
Property Address: 4501 West 5215 South
Request: Temporary Change to the Conditional Use conditions allowing for student pick up and drop off along
4520 West, during the COVID-19 restriction period.
Applicant: St. Francis Xavier School (Marianne Rozsahegyi)

MSD Planner: Diana Martinez
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval with conditions
Salt Lake County Engineer: Madeline Francisco-Galang
Salt Lake County Engineering Staff Recommendation: Approval with conditions




                                             PROJECT DESCRIPTION

         On September 11, 2017, the applicant, St. Francis Xavier School, came before the Planning Commission
requesting the ability to change the conditions of their Conditional Use approval, to allow student drop off and
pick up along 4500 West. The Planning Commission did not accept this request and asked that the school
facilitate the drop off and pick up of the students by having “all school traffic…routed entirely through the
(school) parking lot”.
         The St. Francis Xavier School is asking the Planning Commission for a similar request to have the ability
to drop off and pick up the younger students (in preschool, kindergarten and first grade) along 4520 West, for a
temporary time during the COVID-19 pandemic period.
         The applicant would like for students to be able to enter the doors that connect directly to the
preschool-first grade classrooms, which are right off 4520 West, rather than have these students walk from the
school parking lot through the school building, where the older students have classrooms. This would limit the
exposure and access to most of the school and other children.
         The drop off time in the morning would be between 8:00 a.m. and 8:15 a.m. This drop off time would
involve 22 students. The pickup time in the afternoon would be between 2:50 p.m. and 3:10 p.m. This pick-up
time would involve 8 students.
        Request: Conditional Use Change Conditions of Approval                                 File #: 24679




                                SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)

The property is in an area of exclusively R-1-6 zoning with single family residential dwellings being the
predominate land use on all sides of the property. The only exception being a Baptist Church located across the
street from the northeast corner of the subject property.




                                                        R-1-6




                                  ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION

The main issue of concern in 2017 included:
         The traffic circulation both before and after school when children are being dropped off or picked up.
When the expansion to the school was approved in 2009 one of the conditions of that approval was that the
school would only allow drop off and pick up internal to the subject property and would eliminate the practice
of staging drop off and pick up on 4520 West. The school has attempted to comply with the specific condition to
not allow drop off and pick up on 4520 West and to route school traffic onto the school property. As a result,
traffic now backs up onto 5215 South creating a safety hazard along the arterial street.




                                         NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE

Property owners within 300’ of the School’s property have been noticed (103 property owners in total). No
responses have been received regarding this issue.




Conditional Use- Change of Approval                                                                   Page 2 of 5
        Request: Conditional Use Change Conditions of Approval                                     File #: 24679




                                        REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE

County Engineering is recommending the following:
       7/30/2020:       Recommending approval for the temporary drop off on 4520 West, in the A.M.
                           • Temporary drop off point
                           • 15 minutes drop off time between 8:00 a.m. to 8:15 a.m.
                           • Maximum of 22 students
                           • Only during COVID_19 restrictions
                        Recommending approval for the temporary drop off on 4520 West, in the P.M.
                           • Temporary drop off point
                           • 20 minutes of pickup time between 2:50 and 3:10 p.m.
                           • Only during COVID-19 restrictions.



                                           PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS

19.84.050 - Approval/denial authority.
The planning commission has the authority to approve, deny, or approve with conditions conditional use
applications.
A. Planning Commission Approval.
        1. The planning commission shall review and approve or deny each application during a public meeting.
        2. The planning commission's decision shall be based on information presented through the public
        meeting process, including: the materials submitted by the applicant, the recommendation of the
        director or director's designee, and input from interested parties and affected entities.
        3. If conditions are specified, the director or director's designee shall issue a final approval letter upon
        satisfaction of the planning commission's conditions of approval.
        4. If the applicant fails to meet all conditions of approval within twelve months of the planning
        commission's decision, the application is deemed denied. A twelve-month extension may be granted
        upon the payment of an additional filing fee equal to the original filing fee.
        5. A planning commission decision shall be made on a complete conditional use application within a
        reasonable time frame, not to exceed ninety days. The planning commission is authorized to review and
        take action on an application as outlined in Section 19.84.040 after having notified the applicant of the
        meeting date.
        6. Failure by the applicant to provide information that has been requested by the planning commission,
        the director or director's designee to resolve conflicts with the standards in Section 19.84.060(above)
        may result in an application being denied.
B. Decision. Each conditional use application shall be:
        1. Approved if the proposed use, including the manner and design in which a property is proposed for
        development, complies with the standards for approval outlined in Section 19.84.060; or
        2. Approved with conditions if the anticipated detrimental effects of the use, including the manner and
        design in which the property is proposed for development, can be mitigated with the imposition of
        reasonable conditions to bring about compliance with the standards outlined in Section 19.84.060; or
        3. Denied if the anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use cannot be mitigated with the
        imposition of reasonable conditions of approval to bring about compliance with the standards outlined
        in Section 19.84.060.




Conditional Use- Change of Approval                                                                       Page 3 of 5
        Request: Conditional Use Change Conditions of Approval                                     File #: 24679



19.84.060 - Standards for approval.
Prior to approval, all conditional uses and accompanying site development plans must be found to conform to
the following standards:
A. The proposed site development plan shall comply with all applicable provisions of the zoning ordinance,
including parking, building setbacks, and building height.
B. The proposed use and site development plan shall comply with all other applicable laws and ordinances.
C. The proposed use and site development plan shall not present a serious traffic hazard due to poor site design
or to anticipated traffic increases on the nearby road system which exceed the amounts called for under the
county transportation master plan.
D. The proposed use and site development plan shall not pose a serious threat to the safety of persons who will
work on, reside on, or visit the property nor pose a serious threat to the safety of residents or properties in the
vicinity by failure to adequately address the following issues: fire safety, geologic hazards, soil or slope
conditions, liquifaction potential, site grading/topography, storm drainage/flood control, high ground water,
environmental health hazards, or wetlands.
E. The proposed use and site development plan shall not adversely impact properties in the vicinity of the site
through lack of compatibility with nearby buildings in terms of size, scale, height, or noncompliance with
community general plan standards.

19.84.100 - Revocation of conditional use permits.
A conditional use permit may be revoked by the planning commission upon a finding of failure to comply with
the terms and conditions of the original permit or for any violation of this title occurring on the site for which
the permit was approved. Prior to taking action concerning revocation of a conditional use permit, a hearing
shall be held by the planning commission. Notice of the hearing and the grounds for consideration of revocation
shall be mailed to the permittee at least ten days prior to the hearing.

19.84.110 - Hearing officer.
The planning commission may appoint, with the concurrence of the county mayor, a hearing officer or officers
to make recommendations to the planning commission as to whether cause exists for the planning commission
to consider revoking any conditional use permit. Prior to making any recommendation to the planning
commission, an evidentiary hearing shall be conducted by the hearing officer to determine whether the
permittee has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the original permit or has otherwise violated
any provision of the zoning ordinance occurring on the site for which the permit was approved. The hearing
officer shall notify the planning commission if any violations have been corrected by the permittee prior to the
issuance of the hearing officer's recommendations.

Staff has reviewed the applicable ordinances and believes that the Planning Commission is within their right to
hold a hearing on the matter as the applicant is not fully in compliance with the specifically listed condition of
approval (see attached Conditional Use Permit letter). During such a hearing, the original conditions of approval
could be reviewed and changed or modified to reflect changing circumstances and to mitigate unforeseen
impacts that their imposition has caused. Staff believes that it is in the best interest of safety for all community
members that the condition of approval restricting drop of and pick up from 4520 West be removed as a
requirement. Staff further suggests that all other conditions of approval remain in effect.




Conditional Use- Change of Approval                                                                       Page 4 of 5
        Request: Conditional Use Change Conditions of Approval                                      File #: 24679

                                      PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION

The MSD Planning Staff recommends to the Kearns Township Planning Commission that the request to change
the conditions of approval to allow a temporary drop off and pick up from 4520 West be allowed, with all other
conditions of approval remaining as currently constituted, subject to the additional conditions being added:
            1. This is a temporary change of approval until November 20, 2020. On this day, Staff will
                determine if the restrictions of the COVID-19 Pandemic have been cleared or reduced.
                     a. If the pandemic restrictions have been cleared or reduced, then the school shall go back
                         to the original facilitation of using the parking lot as the main drop off and pick up area.
                     b. If the pandemic restriction have not been cleared or reduced, the MSD Staff will make
                         arrangements for the applicant to go back to the Planning Commission for the
                         December 14, 2020 meeting, to determine an appropriate extension time period for
                         drop off and pick up to continue along 4520 West.
            2. This temporary change of approval is for the drop off and pick up of approximately 22 children
                attending the school.
            3. The school will need to determine which cars (students) are allowed to be in the drop off and
                pick up area along 4520 West. A car sticker or name board that designates the appropriate
                student cars, may be helpful to show the faculty which cars should and should not be dropping
                off or picking up along 4520 West.




Conditional Use- Change of Approval                                                                        Page 5 of 5
                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        www.pwpds.slco.org


                                        MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                        KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                 Monday, September 11, 2017 5:30 p.m.

                        **Meeting minutes approved on December 11, 2017**
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 5 minutes                          *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 12                                    found on the State and County websites, or from Salt Lake
                                                                      County Planning & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Robertson

                                                ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                               Public    Business
       Commissioners                                 Absent                                                 Public      Business
                                Mtg        Mtg                             Planning Staff / DA
                                                                                                             Mtg          Mtg
       Jeff Robertson            x          x
         Joy Nelson              x          x                                 Wendy Gurr                      x             x
       Jerry Wellman             x          x                                 Max Johnson                     x
        Bruce Walton             x          x                                 Todd Draper                     x
         Marlo Davis             x          x                                Spencer Hymas




                                                    BUSINESS MEETING

                                               Meeting began at – 5:30 p.m.

    1) Approval of Minutes from the August 14, 2017 meeting.
        Motion: To approve minutes from the August 14, 2017 meeting as presented.
              Motion by: Commissioner Davis
              2nd by: Commissioner Wellman
              Vote: Commissioner Wellman abstained, all other commissioners voted in favor. Motion passed.

    2) Other Business Items (as needed)
        No other business items to discuss.

                                              PUBLIC HEARINGS
                                          Hearings began at – 5:33 p.m.

30551 – Patti Hansen on behalf of the Kearns Olympic Oval is requesting a rezone approval to change the zoning
from R-1-43 to R-1-6. Parcel Area: ≈9 Acres. Location: 5928 South Park Wood Drive. Planner: Spencer Hymas



Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – September 11, 2017 – Meeting Summary                                     Page 1 of 4
Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services Planner Todd Draper provided an analysis of the staff
report.

                                 PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Director of Oquirrh Parks District
Name: Patti Hansen
Address: Not provided
Comments: Ms. Hansen said they owned the parcel, Parkwood drive parcel of land. Rough past, 25 years. Working
with Salt Lake County and recorder’s office and intention to split the land, idea to split and suit the neighborhood
and give part of the land to Salt Lake County parks. They are in the process of splitting the parcel already zoned R-
1-43 and gifted to Salt Lake County. Land R-1-6 same as neighborhood. Place parcel after rezoned place for sale to
developer for a subdivision. Is with recorder’s office to be split. Proceeds of the sale, new connection building, and
completion of October 2108, 11,000 square feet of exercise equipment, meeting room and furnished the building.

Commissioner Wellman asked the part to the county will become a park and anticipate crowds. Ms. Hansen said
the nature of the land is sloped. Masterplan is bonded and 4.5 million into the park and this will be improved and
have to spend within 18 months. Commissioner Wellman asked if the slope is enough to sled. Ms. Hansen said yes
and there is a planned parking lot. Commissioner Nelson asked if there is a fence between properties and the park.
Ms. Hansen said not planned, but the park could fence. Developer would be responsible for the road and utilities.
Commissioner Walton asked about triangle shape to the east and asked why not subdivide. Ms. Hansen said the
community asked not to connect the road and wanted an entrance into the community. Commissioner Walton asked
the timeline. Ms. Hansen said under design right now. Ms. Hansen said the irrigation bond has to be spent within
18 months and this has to be developed.

Speaker # 2: Kearns Community Council
Name: Roger Snow
Address: 5977 South Parkwood Drive
Comments: Mr. Snow said Parkwood was a cul-de-sac. Originally there was a big parking lot. Seen plans from
parks and recreation and they didn’t want any of that. The county always planned on connecting. Didn’t want
through traffic, not to have drive-in access and a parking lot. Open space with trails all the way through, play
feature, pavilions. This is a sports park, no place for a family to go, fought with parks and rec to expand and get
pavilions in there and this is what this money is going to do. Should be designed to access off Cougar Lane. Leave
it a park and traffic in the park.

Speaker # 3: Citizen
Name: Kent Markus
Address: 5968 South Parkwood Drive
Comments: Mr. Markus said the parcel that will be a park and same contour of existing park, this is small
difference.

Speaker # 4: Citizen
Name: Edward Aguirre
Address: 5993 South Parkwood Drive
Comments: Mr. Aguirre said the biggest thing is not getting through traffic. On Sundays, several people blast
through the neighborhood, neighbor doesn’t like his kids going out because people blast through. They did a
petition to get speed bumps and fought for less traffic. People that bought in Parkwood, because it was a cul-de-sac.
Consider avoiding the through traffic, 200 cars a week. Something that benefits the whole neighborhood.

Commissioner Robertson said this proposal is not a guarantee. Mr. Draper said just looking at rezone and
anything other would come back to the planning commission. This is what they’re proposing, there isn’t a
guarantee and only looking at rezoning tonight. Commissioner Robertson said when it comes, everyone is welcome
to come back. Commissioner Davis asked if the rezone is for the full parcel and what will stop a developer coming
in and connecting to the street. Mr. Draper said if intent is to give it to the county and have it be park space that
would stop it, but can't say down the road. Mr. Johnson said sounds like the property owner has done due diligence

Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – September 11, 2017 – Meeting Summary                         Page 2 of 4
to work with the county. Mr. Draper said county parks would come before this body for changes. Commissioner
Robertson said if the zone did not change, the owner could still put it through. Commissioner Walton said KOPFC
owns it and they would have to sale it. Mr. Draper said they can’t put a condition on a rezone. Commissioner
Walton asked the residence if there are a lot of people parking on that street. Commissioner Robertson said not
relevant to the rezone, but traffic calming, would a conservation easement help prevent construction. Mr. Draper
said could be utilized in theory, but doesn’t know that’s the best way to go about it. Commissioner Davis said they
aren't making the connection, but changing the flow and the flow is because churches aren’t connected. If you had
the access road, you wouldn’t have church traffic. Mr. Markus said has been burned down. There has to be a way
or mid additional traffic from the church, they want to preserve what they purchased and worked to keep families
safe. Mr. Snow said transient problem, kids going through to get to the elementary.

Speaker # 5: Applicant
Name: Patti Hansen
Address: Not provided
Comments: Ms. Hansen said she respects everyone’s opinion.

Commissioner Walton motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Wellman seconded that motion.
Commissioners voted unanimous in favor.

                                 PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Motion: To recommend approval of application #30551 to the Kearns Metro Township Council as presented.
      Motion by: Commissioner Wellman
      2nd by: Commissioner Walton
      Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor


24679 – The Kearns Metro Township Council has determined that the St. Francis Xavier School has not complied
with one or more conditions of approval related to their current Conditional Use Permit, and has requested that the
Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission hold a public hearing to consider revisions to the conditions of
approval. Location: 4501 West 5215 South. Zone: R-1-6 (Single Family Residential). Planner: Todd A. Draper,
AICP

Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services Planner Todd Draper provided an analysis of the staff
report.

Mr. Johnson said is to amend conditions of approval. Commissioner Robertson confirmed they have the authority
to do.

Jena Carver Salt Lake County Transportation Engineer. They looked at the street last year. Number of problems
with the drop off, school decided to switch the area of drop off. There is no parking during pick up and drop off.
They’d like the condition removed per the metro council. Right now given what’s going on 5215, if moving over to
the other street or spread it out and give this option.

                                PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Kearns Metro Township Council
Name: Tina Snow
Address: 5977 South Parkwood Drive
Comments: Ms. Snow said wherever the park off was they were parking in front of peoples drive ways.

Speaker # 2: Citizen
Name: Laurie Allgood
Address: 4532 West 5295 South

Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – September 11, 2017 – Meeting Summary                       Page 3 of 4
Comments: Ms. Allgood said her neighbors on 4520 west were being blocked. Her home is on 5295 south. Come
up 4520 and walk up here.

Ms. Carver said today counted 21 cars in the parking lot, but could line up 37 cars just on their property. Not
parking, only queuing up. Ms. Carver said it is different than a public school. Only queuing on east side of the
street. Commissioner Walton said all exiting and entering in their parking lot. Commissioner Wellman said the
traffic will be routed through the parking lot and taking that restriction away is still queuing in the parking lot. Item
three could be eliminated. Commissioner Robertson said as a solution would that satisfy. Ms. Carver said rather
than removing the whole sentence. Commissioner Wellman asked at the end of the street is a no parking zone. Ms.
Carver said if they needed to do a no parking zone and she doesn’t think they want that in the conditions. She said
if they look at rerouting.

Speaker # 3: Citizen
Name: Laurie Allgood
Address: 4532 West 5295 South
Comments: Ms. Allgood said still have the door closed to students, just teachers. If the drop off still goes through
the parking lot and still stipulated, she is for it.

They require the parents pick up and drop off. He knows there’s a door on the west side. One goes into the
computer lab and main building, but they’re locked. Ms. Snow said whatever you do, you’re not going to stop that
one parent from parking. Commissioner Wellman asked when they turn right is it a stop sign. Mr. Draper
confirmed there isn’t a stop sign. Ms. Carver said it would be an on sign stop, she would take that into account. She
said if it was a private school, she would be right there. It was chaos before, but she doesn’t see it anymore.
Commissioner Walton asked Ms. Allgood if a lot of people make a U-turn. Ms. Allgood said on 4520 and 5290
south.

                                  PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Motion: To approve application #24679 with original conditions of approval and an amendment to condition #3:
          3. Upon completion of the addition, school traffic should be routed entirely through the parking lot.
      Motion by: Commissioner Davis
      2nd by: Commissioner Walton
      Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor

                                             MEETING ADJOURNED
                                            Time Adjourned – 6:35 p.m.




Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – September 11, 2017 – Meeting Summary                            Page 4 of 4
ORDINANCE NO.2020-8-02                               DATE: August 10, 2020
          AN ORDINANCE OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
        CREATING CHAPTER 19.15 OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIO CODE
           TO AUTHORIZE ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS IN CERTAIN
          RESIDENTIAL ZONES AND TO ENACT RELATED REGULATIONS
                                           RECITALS
       WHEREAS, Utah Code §10-2a-414(3) provides that a Salt Lake County ordinance will
remain in effect as the ordinance of the Kearns Metro Township (“Kearns”) “until the metro
township council amends or repeals the ordinance;” and
       WHEREAS, Title 19 of the Kearns Metro Township Code (the “Code”) governs zoning
within Kearns; and
       WHEREAS, because the Salt Lake County originally adopted Title 19 prior to the
incorporation of the Kearns Metro Township, Title 19 as currently constituted is not specific to
Kearns and does not account for the metro township form of municipal government; and
        WHEREAS, on November 19, 2019, Kearns amended its general plan to include a
moderate housing element to comply with the requirements of H.B. 295 and S.B. 34, which
collectively enacted various moderate housing requirements for municipalities, including but not
limited to requirements that municipalities of a certain size amend their general plans to include a
moderate housing element; and
       WHEREAS, the Kearns’ moderate housing element calls for the development and adoption
of an accessory dwelling unit (“ADU”) ordinance to assist in the creation of more moderate-
income housing options in Kearns; and
        WHEREAS, of the various moderate housing options presented to the citizens of Kearns
during the development of the moderate housing element, the creation of an ADU ordnance and
the reduction of regulations limiting the use of ADUs received the most support; and
       WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township Council (“Council”) instructed its planning and
development staff to develop an ADU ordinance to implement the moderate housing plan’s ADU
recommendations; and
       WHEREAS, the Kearns planning and development staff prepared a draft ordinance, which
Kearns’ attorney has reviewed, that would enact Chapter 19.15 of the Kearns Metro Township
Code to authorize and regulate ADUs in certain residential zones within Kearns; and
      WHEREAS, after holding a public hearing and taking public comment pursuant to Utah
Code Ann. § 10-9a-502, the Kearns Planning Commission recommended that the Council adopt
the ADU ordinance the planning and development staff developed; and
       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the ordinance and determined that it furthers the
goals of the moderate housing plan and will be in the best interest of Kearns and its citizens.


                                                 1
       NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL that the attached ADU ordinance is adopted and will become effective 20 days after
publication pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-711(1) and Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-712.
APPROVED and ADOPTED this _______ day of _______________, 2020.

                                                 KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL

                                                 By: ________________________________
                                                    Kelly Bush, Mayor




ATTEST                                           APPROVED AS TO FORM:


_______________________________                  __________________________________

Sherrie Swensen, Clerk/Recorder                  METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY


VOTING


Council Member Bush voting               _____
Council Member Butterfield voting        _____
Council Member Peterson voting           _____
Council Member Schaeffer voting          _____
Council Member Snow voting               _____



 (Complete as Applicable)
 Summary of ordinance published in newspaper: _____________________
 Date of publication:____________________________________________
 Effective date of ordinance:______________________________________




                                            2
                                       SUMMARY OF

          KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO. ________________

       On the _____ day of __________________, 2020, the Kearns Metro Township Council

adopted Ordinance No. _________________, creating Chapter 19.15 of the Kearns Metro

Township Code to authorize accessory dwelling units in certain zones and to enact related

regulations to govern the use of accessory dwelling units within Kearns.



                                                    By: ________________________________
                                                        Kelly Bush, Mayor


ATTEST                                               APPROVED AS TO FORM:




_______________________________                      ___________________________________
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk                               METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY


VOTING
Council Member Bush voting                  _____
Council Member Butterfield voting           _____
Council Member Peterson voting              _____
Council Member Schaeffer voting             _____
Council Member Snow voting                  _____


A complete copy of Ordinance No. ______________ is available in the office of the Kearns
Metro Township Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.




                                                3
19.15.010 Purpose
       The Kearns Metro Township recognizes that ADUs in single-family residential zones can
       be an important tool in the overall housing plan for the metro township. The purposes of
       the ADU standards of this code are to:
          A. Allow opportunities for property owners to provide social or personal support for
             family members where independent living is desirable;

          B. Provide for affordable housing opportunities;

          C. Make housing units available to moderate income people who might otherwise have
             difficulty finding housing within the city;

          D. Provide opportunities for additional income to offset rising housing costs;

          E. Develop housing units in single-family neighborhoods that are appropriate for
             people at a variety of stages in the life cycle;

          F. Preserve the character of single-family neighborhoods by providing standards
             governing development of ADUs; and

          G. Ensure that ADUs are properly regulated by requiring property owners to obtain a
             business license and a building permit for an ADU prior to renting the ADU.
19.15.020 Definitions
       ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): A self-contained dwelling unit located on an
       owner occupied property that is either incorporated within the single-family residence or
       in a detached building, which maintains complete independent living facilities for one or
       more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and
       sanitation (i.e., a separate kitchen). An ADU is part of the single-family residence and is
       not a multi-family unit.
       OWNER OCCUPANCY: When a property owner, as reflected in title records, makes his
       or her legal residence at the site, as evidenced by voter registration, vehicle registration,
       driver's license, county assessor records or similar means.
       PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT (PUE): An area on a recorded plat map or other recorded
       document that is dedicated to the use and installation of public utility facilities.
19.15.030 Allowed Areas/Zones
       ADUs shall be a permitted use only on single family home lots in the following R Zones
       that require 5,000 square foot minimum lot sizes or greater: R-1-5, R-1-6, R-1-7, R-1-8, R-
       1-10, R-1-15, R-1-21, R-1-43. ADUs are prohibited in all other zones. In no case shall an


                                                 4
      ADU be permitted in a townhome, a multi-family PUD, or other attached unit type, or on
      any lot that cannot satisfy the parking, setback, or lot coverage requirements.
19.15.040 Number of Residents
      ADUs shall be occupied by no more than two (2) related or unrelated adults and their
      dependents.
19.15.050 Setbacks
      Side yard setbacks will be consistent with setbacks for a single-family dwelling in the zone.
      Rear yard setbacks are a minimum of 10 feet. Detached ADUs must also be a minimum of
      6 feet from the main dwelling. If existing PUEs are greater than the required setback, the
      minimum setback will be the PUE boundary.
19.15.060 Floor Area (Minimums/Maximums) In conjunction with Lot Area
      The total area of the ADU shall be less than forty percent (40%) of the square footage of
      the primary residence and in no case shall exceed one thousand (1,000) square feet and
      contain no more than 2 bedrooms.
19.15.070 Parking Requirements
      In addition to required parking for existing home:
          A. For a studio or one-bedroom ADU, the property owner must demonstrate that
             adequate and consistently available on site or on-street parking is available for one
             vehicle provided that the on-street parking must be along the frontage of the
             property.
          B. For a two-bedroom ADU, the property owner must demonstrate that adequate and
             consistently available on site or on-street parking is available for two vehicles, with
             one of the spaces required to be on-site. Any on-street parking must be along the
             frontage of the property
          C. To demonstrate that adequate and consistently available on-street parking exists, a
             property owner bears the burden of showing by a preponderance of the evidence
             that sufficient legal parking is available along the street frontage of the property.
19.15.080 Height Requirements
      ADUs shall comply with the following height requirements:
          A. Detached ADU – 20’ height limit;

          B. Above-garage detached ADUs – 28’ height limit;

          C. Home addition – No taller than existing home;

          D. No ADU use may be taller than the existing home and single level homes cannot
             have two story ADUs.

                                                5
19.15.090 Lot Coverage
      Lot coverage maximums as outline per each zone. Any additions to an existing building or
      construction of a detached ADU shall comply with Section 19.15.050 and shall not exceed
      the allowable lot or rear yard coverage standard for the underlying zone or encroach into
      the required setbacks as outlined in 19.15.50.
19.15.100 – Owner Occupancy
      The property owner, which shall include titleholders and contract purchasers, must occupy
      either the principal unit or the ADU, but not both, as their permanent residence and may
      not at any time receive rent for the owner-occupied unit. Application for an ADU shall
      include evidence of owner occupancy.
19.15.110 – Number of ADUs per lot
      Only one ADU is allowed per lot or property in single-family zones.
19.15.120 – ADU Design Standards
          A. An approved building permit is required for all ADUs before an ADU is constructed
             and all other applicable provisions of this chapter and the Kearns Metro Township
             Code must be met before an ADU can be rented. Existing non-compliant ADUs
             may come into compliance by receiving a permit and verifying existing work was
             done according to code.

          B. The design and size of the ADU shall conform to all applicable standards in the
             building, plumbing, electrical, mechanical, fire, health, and any other applicable
             codes.

          C. All ADUs must be on permanent foundations. Detached ADUs shall have a
             permanent concrete slab on which they are built. Detached ADUs are not allowed
             to be built on a foundation with a basement, on piers or on any temporary or
             wheeled structure.

          D. Basement conversions to an ADU will require compliance with safety requirements
             per building code including, but not limited to, egress windows with window wells
             in case of emergency, close off door(s) between the ADU and main unit, and
             sufficient HVAC and climate control for the ADU.

          E. Attached ADUs will not require a separate HVAC or firewall.

          F. If the ADU is connected to the same HVAC as the main unit, emergency heating
             must be available in the form of space heaters or other safe heating in the event the
             main HVAC fails while the owner is not available.
          G. Installing separate utility meters and separate addresses for the ADU is prohibited.

                                               6
          H. A separate entrance to the ADU from the main dwelling is required. This entrance
             shall not be allowed on the front or corner lot side yard. The separate entrance shall
             be located to the side or rear of the principal residence.

          I. Detached ADUs shall not be located in a front or corner lot side yard.

          J. Any detached ADU shall have adequate facilities for all discharge from roof and
             other drainage.

          K. Any additions to an existing building or construction of a detached ADU shall not
             exceed the allowable lot or rear yard coverage standard for the underlying zone or
             encroach into the required setbacks.

          L. Single family residences with interior accessory dwelling units shall retain the
             appearance of a single-family home. An accessory dwelling unit in an accessory
             structure shall be designed so that, to the degree reasonably feasible, the appearance
             of the building is compatible with the architectural components of the primary
             dwelling unit (e.g., exterior materials, color, and roof pitch).

          M. Conversion of existing accessory buildings (such as detached garages) may only
             occur where the existing accessory building meets the setback requirements (or
             nonconforming use/noncomplying structure requirements) and meets the
             applicable building code requirements.
19.15.130: Affidavit
       Applicants for ADUs shall provide an affidavit stating that the owner of the property will
       live in either the primary or accessory dwelling unit as their permanent residence. Upon
       approval of the ADU by the building official and upon the issuance of a business license
       pursuant to Section 19.15.140, the affidavit shall be recorded against the property (if the
       property owner decides to sell the home) to alert the future owner of the regulations for the
       ADU. Upon sale of the property, the new owner shall be required to sign and record a new
       affidavit and secure reauthorization of the ADU by the building and business license
       officials.
19.15.140: Business Licensing
       Prior to renting out any ADU, a business license must be obtained. That license must be
       maintained as long as the unit is rented out.
19.15.150: Multi-Family Use of ADUs Prohibited
          A. An ADU is part of a single-family residence and is not a multi-family unit.



                                                 7
          B. An ADU may not be separately metered apart from the single-family residence.

          C. An ADU may not be sold or subdivided separately from the single-family
             residence.
19.15.160 Variances
      Variances to the standards of this chapter may be approved by the appeal authority in
      accordance with chapter 19.15 of this title. In no case shall a variance be approved for the
      Building Code requirements, owner occupancy provisions, minimum square footage or
      number of units allowed per property.




                                               8
ORDINANCE NO. 2020-8-01                                    DATE: August 10, 2020

           AN ORDINANCE OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
         UPDATING AND REVISING THE CONDITIONAL USE PROVISIONS OF
                    THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP CODE

                                           RECITALS

       WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-2a-414(3) provides that a Salt Lake County ordinance will
remain in effect as the ordinance of the Kearns Metro Township (“Kearns”) “until the metro
township council amends or repeals the ordinance;” and

       WHEREAS, Title 19 of the Kearns Metro Township Code (the “Code”) governs
conditional use permits filed within Kearns; and

       WHEREAS, because the Salt Lake County originally adopted Title 19 prior to the
incorporation of the Kearns Metro Township, Title 19 as currently constituted is not specific to
Kearns and does not account for the metro township form of municipal government nor does it
account for changes the Utah Legislature made to Utah’s Municipal Land Use Development Act
(“LUDMA”), as found in Chapter 9a of title 10 of the Utah Code regarding conditional use
permits; and

       WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township Council (the “Council”) desires to amend Title
19 of the Code to account for the metro township form of government and to comply with
LUDMA; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-9a-602, the Kearns Metro Township Planning
Commission has reviewed and recommended the below revisions to Title 19 and other applicable
portions of the Code after providing notice consistent with Utah Code § 10-9a-205 and holding a
public hearing on August 10, 2020; and

        WHEREAS, the Council has determined that the attached revisions to Title 19 and other
portions of the Code will serve the best interests of the Kearns Metro Township and the general
public.

    NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL AS FOLLOWS:

1. Section 19.02.010 is amended to read:

       19.02.010 Title for Citation

       This title shall be known as the "Uniform Zoning Ordinance of the Kearns Metro Township,
       Utah," and may be so cited and pleaded. This title shall also be known as Title 19, the
       Kearns Metro Township Code of Ordinances.

                                               1
2. Section 19.02.020 is amended to read:

       19.02.020 Purpose of Provisions

       This title is designed and enacted for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals,
       conveniences, order, prosperity and welfare of the present and future inhabitants of the
       Kearns Metro Township, including, among other things, the lessening of congestion in the
       streets or roads, securing safety from fire and other dangers, providing adequate light and
       air, classification of land uses and distribution of land development and utilization,
       protection of the tax base, securing economy in governmental expenditures, fostering the
       metro township’s agricultural and other industries, and the protection of both urban and
       nonurban development.

3. Section 19.02.040 is amended to read:

       19.02.040 Resolution of Conflicts

       If a conflict between this title and provisions of covenants, agreements, other ordinances,
       or laws, the more restrictive provision(s) shall apply.

4. Section 19.02.050 is amended to read:

       19.02.050 Effect on Previous Ordinances and Maps

       The existing ordinances of Salt Lake County that the Kearns Metro Township inherited
       upon its incorporation that cover the zoning of areas and districts in the Kearns Metro
       Township, in their entirety and including the maps theretofore adopted and made a part of
       such ordinances, are hereby superseded and amended to read as set forth in this title;
       provided, however that this title, including the maps on file with the planning commission
       and by this reference made a part hereof, shall be deemed a continuation of previous
       ordinances, and not a new enactment, insofar as the substance of revisions of previous
       ordinances is included in this title, whether in the same or in different language; and this
       title shall be so interpreted upon all questions of construction, including but not limited to
       questions of construction, relating to tenure of officers and boards established by previous
       ordinances, and to questions of conforming or nonconforming uses, buildings or
       structures, and to questions as to the dates upon which such uses, buildings or structures
       became conforming or nonconforming.

5. Section 19.02.060 is amended to read:

       19.02.060 Licensing Requirements

       All departments, officials and public employees of the Kearns Metro Township which are
       vested with the duty or authority to issue permits or licenses shall conform to the provisions
       of this title and shall issue no permits or licenses for use, building or purpose where the


                                                 2
       same would be in conflict with the provisions of this title, and any such permit or license,
       if issued in conflict with the provisions of this title, shall be null and void.

6. Section 19.02.080 is amended to read:

       19.02.080 Site Plans Required--Contents

       A detailed site plan, drawn to scale (scale and sheet size to be determined by the director)
       shall be filed as part of any application prior to consideration or for any building permit.
       The requirements in this section 19.02.080 shall be considered the minimum standards for
       an application being considered complete. Notwithstanding the foregoing, compliance
       with additional requirements imposed by other applicable sections, including Chapter
       19.84, shall be required for an application to be considered complete for consideration.
       The site plan shall show, where pertinent:

       A. Note of scale used;

       B. Direction of North point;

       C. Lot lines, together with adjacent streets, roads and rights-of-way;

       D. Location of all existing structures on subject property and adjoining properties
          (completely dimensioned, including utility lines, poles, etc.);

       E. Location of the proposed construction and improvements, including the location of all
          signs;

       F. Motor vehicle access, including individual parking stalls, circulation patterns, curb,
          gutter, and sidewalk location;

       G. Necessary explanatory notes;

       H. Name, address and telephone number of builder and owner; and

       I. All other information that may be required, as determined by the director.

7. Section 19.02.090 is amended to read:

       19.02.090 Building and Use Permits Required

       Construction, alteration, repair or removal of any building or structure, or any part
       thereof, as provided or as restricted in this title, shall not be commenced or proceeded with
       except after the issuance of a written permit for the same by the building official. The use
       of the land shall not be commenced or proceeded with except upon the issuance of a written
       permit for the same by the development services division director or designee. No use
       permit shall be required for land used for agricultural purposes, as defined in this title,
       and/or for the keeping or raising of animals or fowl.

                                                 3
8. Section 19.02.100 is amended to read:

       19.02.100 Compliance Prerequisite to Permit Issuance

       A. No building permit may be issued without first having been approved by the building
          official. The building official shall not approve a building permit if any building,
          structure or use of land would be in violation of any of the provisions of this title, nor
          shall any other township officer grant any permit or license nor the use of any building
          or land if use would be in violation of this title.

       B. Neither the building official nor any other Kearns Metro Township officer shall grant
          any permit, license, or land use approval of any building or land in violation of chapter
          9.25, entitled "Water Source Protection."

9. Section 19.02.130 is amended to read:

       19.02.130 Land Use Applications

       The director of planning and development services ("the director") or the director's
       designee shall be the administrator of the Kearns Metro Township zoning ordinance. In
       order to assure that each proposed land use or proposed amendment to an existing land
       use is handled consistently and fully complies with the provisions of this title, the director
       or director's designee shall administer application and review procedures as outlined
       herein unless specific procedures are otherwise provided in the zoning ordinance.
       Applications shall be diligently prosecuted to completion by the applicant to ensure that
       any action taken to approve or deny an application is based on current information. An
       application shall not be considered complete until all application fees have been paid and
       all required materials have been submitted. The payment of a partial fee and preliminary
       plans for a pre-submittal review does not constitute a complete application. The land use
       application process shall consist of the following:

       A. An application procedure, which shall include:
          1. Submission of an application form, as designed by the director or director's
             designee, which clearly indicates the type and purpose of the application, property
             address, and applicant information;
          2. Submission of a legal description of the property plat, a designated number of site
             plans, building elevations, and mailing labels (if required) for notifications; and
          3. Payment of fees, as required under Title 3, Revenue and Finance.

       B. A review procedure, which may include:
          1. The creation of a planning file by which the applicant, staff, and the public can
              refer to the proposed land use;
          2. An on-site review by the director or director's designee as allowed in Utah Code §
              10- 9a-303;
          3. Review of the submitted site plan and elevations for compliance with the zoning
              ordinance;

                                                 4
          4. Referral of the application and site plans to those government agencies and/or
             affected entities necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public
             and to ensure the project's compliance with all applicable ordinances and codes;

       C. An approval procedure, which shall include:
          1. The integration of the recommendations from the other government agencies and
             affected entities involved in subsection (B)(4) of this section into the final site plan
             and/or elevations;
          2. An approval letter or other written document indicating the approval or denial of
             the application with appropriate conditions as needed to ensure compliance with
             all applicable codes, ordinances, and regulations;
          3. Provision of the approved site plan and approval letter or denial letter to the
             applicant in a timely manner.

10. Section 19.02.140 is amended to read:

       19.02.140 Land Use Hearings and Execution of Land Use Documents

       The Kearns Metro Township Mayor shall preside over and conduct all land use hearings
       before the council. The Chair of the Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission shall
       preside over and conduct all land use hearings before the planning commission. The
       mayor pro tem and the vice chair of the planning commission shall preside and conduct
       land use hearings in the absence of the mayor and the chair. The mayor and the director
       shall execute all land use documents on behalf of the Kearns Metro Township has
       specified in this title.

11. Section 19.04.077 is amended to read:

       19.04.077 Bed and Breakfast Homestay

       "Bed and breakfast homestay" means a dwelling which has frontage on a street with a
       minimum right-of- way of sixty feet, contains a maximum of five guestrooms, is occupied
       by the owner or individual responsible for operating the facility, and used for
       accommodations or lodging of guests paying compensation. Breakfast may be served
       during the a.m. hours. Lunch or dinner may not be served. This use shall not change the
       character of the dwelling or property for residential purposes, and shall meet the
       requirements of the health department and the applicable fire department. (The
       requirements of the health department limit breakfast to a continental-type breakfast unless
       certain specified health regulations are met.)

12. Section 19.04.166 is amended to read:

       19.04.166 Director

       "Director" means the director of Kearns Metro Township planning and development
       services.


                                                 5
13. Section 19.04.167 is amended to read:

        19.04.167 Development Services Division

        “Development services division” means the Kearns Metro Township public works,
        planning and development services division.

14. Section 19.04.170 is amended to read:

       19.04.170 District

       "District" means an area coterminous with the boundaries of the Kearns Metro Township.

15. Section 19.04.277 is amended to read:

       19.04.277 Graffiti

       "Graffiti" means inscriptions, drawings, paintings or other visual defacing of buildings,
       structures or natural features, without the consent of the owner thereof, and which is not
       otherwise authorized and permitted in the Kearns Metro Township ordinances.

16. Section 19.04.293 is amended to read:

       19.04.293 Home Day Care/preschool

       "Home day care/preschool" means the keeping for care and/or preschool instruction of
       twelve or less children including the caregiver's own children under the age of six and not
       yet in full day school within an occupied dwelling and yard. (State regulations require two
       caregivers if there are more than six children in a home day care and may further limit the
       number of children allowed in a home day care.) A home day care/preschool must meet
       the following standards:

       A. When allowed as a permitted use caregiver and dwelling use must comply with Utah
          Health Department Regulation R430-50. When allowed as a conditional use caregiver
          and dwelling use must comply with Utah Health Department Regulation R430-50 et
          seq.;

       B. The use shall comply with the health department noise regulations;

       C. The play yard shall not be located in the front yard and shall only be used between
          eight a.m. and nine p.m.;

       D. The lot shall contain one available on-site parking space not required for use of the
          dwelling, and an additional available on-site parking space not required for use of the
          dwelling for any employee not residing in the dwelling. The location of the parking
          shall be approved by the development services division director to ensure that the
          parking is functional and does not change the residential character of the lot;

                                                6
       E. No signs shall be allowed on the dwelling or lot except a nameplate sign;

       F. The use shall comply with all local, state and federal laws and regulations. (The Life
          Safety Code includes additional requirements if there are more than six children);

       G. Upon complaint that any of the requirements of this section or any other municipal
          ordinance are being violated by a home day care/preschool caregiver, the municipality
          shall review the complaint and if substantiated may institute a license revocation
          proceeding under Section 5.14.020; and

       H. The caregiver shall notify in writing, on a form provided by the development services
          division, all property owners within a three hundred foot radius of the caregiver's
          property concerning the licensing of a home day care/preschool at such property.

17. Section 19.04.421 is amended to read:

       19.04.421 Planning Commission

       "Planning commission" means the Kearns Metro Township planning commission.

18. Section 19.04.449 is amended to read:

       19.04.449 Reiki Business

       "Reiki business" means a business devoted primarily to Reiki healing, or any other system
       that has elements of the following. The practitioner, trained to access and serve as a
       channel for a sacred life force, places his or her hands on or just above the client's body
       in order to activate healing energy within receptive points on the body. The practitioner's
       hands move progressively with a passive touch through various positions on the body,
       remaining in each position for a period of time. As a harmonic flow of energy is
       strengthened, within the client and practitioner, healing occurs through the return of
       physical, mental and spiritual balance. For purposes of this title, a Reiki business shall not
       include Reiki healing, or similar system, which are performed in a hospital or medical
       clinic.

19. Section 19.05.040 is amended to read:

       19.05.040 Powers and Duties

       The planning commission shall:

       I. Prepare and recommend a general plan and any amendments to the general plan to
          the Kearns Metro Township Council;

       J. Recommend zoning ordinances and maps and amendments to zoning ordinances and
          maps to the Kearns Metro Township Council;

                                                 7
       K. Recommend subdivision ordinances and amendments to those ordinances to the Kearns
          Metro Township Council;

       L. Approve or deny of subdivision applications to the Kearns Metro Township Council;

       M. Approve or deny conditional use permits;

       N. Advise the metro township council on matters that the council directs;

       O. Hold public hearings as appropriate or required under the Kearns Metro Township
          Code or other applicable laws; and

       P. Provide other functions as specified in this chapter or as directed by the Kearns Metro
          Township Council, the Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act (Utah
          Code Annotated Title 10, Chapter 9a), and other applicable laws.

20. Section 19.06.030 is amended to read:

       19.06.030 Filing of This Title and Zoning Maps

       This title and the maps shall be filed in the custody of the Kearns Metro Township clerk,
       and may be examined by the public subject to any reasonable regulations established by
       the clerk.

21. Section 19.76.010 is amended to read:

       19.76.010 Effect of Chapter Provisions

       The regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter qualify or supplement, as the case may
       be, the zone regulations appearing elsewhere in this title. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
       nothing in this chapter shall be construed as to reduce the standards, requirements, or
       obligations imposed elsewhere in the Kearns Metro Township code.

22. Section 19.76.210 is amended to read:

       19.76.210 Off-Site Improvements

       A. Off-Site Improvements Required. The applicant for a building or conditional use permit
          for all dwellings, commercial or industrial uses, and all other business and public and
          quasi-public uses shall provide curb, gutter and sidewalk along the entire property line
          which abuts any public road or street in cases where it does not exist at metro township
          standards. Vehicular entrances to the property shall be provided as required in Section
          14.12.110. Height, location, structural specifications, maximum and minimum cut radii
          and minimum roadway approach angles to the centerline of the street are subject to
          the approval of the agency concerned.


                                                8
       B. Fee in Lieu of Improvements.
          1. Where conditions exist which make it unfeasible or impractical to install such curb,
             gutter and sidewalk, the planning commission may require the applicant to pay to
             the metro township a fee equal to the estimated cost of such improvements, as
             determined by the director of development services. Upon payment of such fee by
             the developer, the metro township shall assume the responsibility for future
             installation of such improvements.
          2. The auditor shall place such fees in the special account established in Section
             18.24.190 of this code, and shall credit to such account a proportioned share of
             interest earned from investment of metro township moneys. Records relating to
             identification of properties for which fees have been collected, fee amounts
             collected for such properties, and money transfer requests shall be the
             responsibility of the development services division.

       C. Exceptions.
          1. The planning commission may grant exception to installation of the sidewalk in
             industrial areas where the planning commission determines that the sidewalk is not
             necessary to serve the public need, and the elimination of the sidewalk does not
             jeopardize the public health, safety or welfare, provided that the respective
             application includes a request for exception consistent with the provisions of
             chapter 84 of this title.
          2. The planning commission may grant exception to installation of curb, gutter and
             sidewalk in rural or estate areas where topographic or other exceptional conditions
             exist, provided that the public health, safety and welfare is preserved, provided that
             the respective application includes a request for exception consistent with the
             provisions of chapter 84 of this title.

23. Section 19.78.020 is amended to read:

       19.78.020 Applicability and Area Requirements

       A planned unit development is a conditional use that is only allowed for residential uses,
       except as provided in Section 19.78.040, and in zones that allow residential uses and the
       provisions in chapter 84 of this title apply to applications for planned unit development.
       The provisions in this chapter shall govern over the chapters relating to these other zones
       and other chapters in this title, with the exception of the FCOZ ordinance, Chapters 19.72
       and 19.73, and the RCOZ ordinance, Chapter 19.71. A planned unit development in these
       zones shall have a minimum area of three acres, with the following exceptions:

       A. Existing condominium developments that cannot be sold or refinanced without the
          common area adjoining the homes in the development being divided up into individual
          lots that include the adjoining homes, and where these newly created lots would not
          qualify as traditional subdivision lots under metro township ordinance. In such cases,
          the newly created lots may qualify as a planned unit development if the development is
          at least one acre in size. Such a development shall be exempt from the provisions of
          this chapter, except Sections 19.78.090—19.78.130 relating to review of the
          development.

                                                9
      B.   Developments abutting or contiguous to a corridor as defined in the general plan shall
           have a minimum area of one acre. To qualify as a development that is abutting or
           contiguous to a corridor, said development shall have a minimum frontage of the sum
           of the required minimum lot width of two lots as determined by the current zoning
           designation.

24. Section 19.78.060 is amended to read:

       19.78.060 Review Process

       A. Pre-Submittal Development Review. To help expedite review of a development
          proposal, prior to submitting a complete application for development, persons
          interested in undertaking development shall meet with a member(s) of the planning
          staff for a planner/applicant meeting, to become acquainted with the substantive and
          procedural requirements of this chapter.

       B. Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). Staff creates, revises, and adheres to a
          development review standard operating procedure, to assist in the management and
          processing of applications. Applicants are encouraged to obtain a copy of the current
          SOP from planning and development services staff, and to seek guidance with respect
          to the review and understanding of the development review SOP from staff.

       C. Application. A complete application for a development must be submitted to planning
          and development services at least thirty (30) days in advance of consideration of the
          application by the planning commission, consistent with chapter 84 of this title. As each
          development application is different and unique, application documents may vary with
          respect to content and need for specific reports and/or studies. Consultation with staff
          and examination of the development review SOP will guide the applicant through the
          review process and identify all submittal documents that will be required to formalize
          a complete application.

           1. Site plan that satisfies the requirements of Section 19.78.030(11), Section
              19.02.080, and chapter 84 of this title. Any inconsistencies in the site plan
              documents with the requirements on these sections, or requests for exception to
              such requirements shall be addressed in writing with the application.
           2. Landscaping plan. A landscape plan is to be prepared in accordance with Chapter
              19.77 of this title. Staff can ask for justification of elements included in the
              landscape plan.
           3. Architectural building elevations. The location and floor area of all existing and
              proposed buildings, structures, and other improvements including heights, types of
              dwelling units, non-residential structures including commercial facilities,
              preliminary elevations and architectural renderings of typical structures and
              improvements, shall be prepared by a licensed architect or other qualified
              professional.
           4. Lighting plan.
           5. Subdivision plat.

                                               10
25. Section 19.78.070 is amended to read:

       19.78.070 Preliminary Review

       When a complete application has been accepted by staff, reviews completed by staff and
       related agencies, and subsequent comments identified by staff and substantially addressed
       by the applicant, the application is scheduled for a public hearing before the planning
       commission for its review and decision consistent with the processes identified in chapter
       84 of this title. Additional adjustments, revisions, or re-submittals may be required during
       this process to identify all concerns related to conformance with the intent of this chapter.
       Failure to submit complete and consistent information will result in written notification to
       the applicant that the review cannot proceed further until all required, necessary, and
       requested information is submitted.

26. Section 19.78.080 is amended to read:

       19.78.080 Planning Commission Review

       When preliminary review of the application has been determined to be complete and in
       compliance with all requirements, the plans and preliminary plat together with all
       supporting information will be forwarded to the planning commission for review. If the
       property is to be subdivided, all requirements set forth in Title 18, Subdivisions, must be
       met.

       In accordance with Chapter 19.05.040 and Utah Code § 10-9a-507, the planning
       commission shall review the proposed development plan to hear and receive public input
       and to determine if all reasonably anticipated detrimental effects have been substantially
       mitigated. The planning commission may require additional studies or analyses to enable
       it to determine how impacts should be addressed and may establish reasonable conditions
       of approval to address those anticipated impacts, as per Chapter 19.84.060.

27. Section 19.78.090 is amended to read:

   19.78.090 Validity of Preliminary Review

       A. Once the planning commission determines that preliminary review is complete, the
          preliminary plat or approved site plan is valid (twelve months for the preliminary plat
          and twelve months for the site plan). The division director may grant a one-year
          extension of the preliminary plat or approved site plan, provided the plat still complies
          with all applicable ordinances.

       B. If a PUD subdivision will be recorded in phases, a final plat for the first phase must be
          recorded within one year of the initial planning commission approval or one-year
          extension thereof, the validity of the unrecorded portions of the approved preliminary
          plat will extend for one year from the recording date of the plat for the previous phase.
          Extensions of time beyond three years from the date of initial approval require review

                                                11
          and approval of the planning commission prior to the then current expiration of the
          preliminary plat.

28. Section 19.78.100 is amended to read:

       19.78.100 Post-Planning Commission Approval

       After completing the preliminary review by the departments, agencies, and planning
       commission, the applicant shall submit a final site plan and preliminary and final
       subdivision plats together with all supporting documents which comply with all
       requirements, corrections, additions, etc. required by the departments, agencies, and
       planning commission to the planning and development services division (hereinafter
       known as the "development plan").

       A. The planning and development services division, along with the other reviewing
          departments and agencies, shall review the proposed development plan to verify
          compliance with all requirements, corrections, additions, etc.

       B. After such review, the item may be scheduled for review by the planning commission
          upon referral by the division director, for any reason, or at the request of the planning
          commission. The final development plan shall include all of the information required
          in the preliminary development plan in its finalized detailed form.

       C. Notwithstanding the foregoing, only the planning commission may approve a proposed
          final site plan which includes any changes to the preliminary site plan that involve: (i)
          increasing the number of units, or structures; (ii) changes to the overall density of the
          project or any areas within the project; (iii) revisions to structure heights, locations,
          or purposes; or (iv) plans for required improvements required by this title or title 18 of
          the Kearns Metro Township Code.

29. Section 19.78.110 is amended to read:

       19.78.110 Amendments to The Development Plan

       The division director or designee may authorize minor changes in the location, siting, or
       character of buildings and structures if required to resolve an engineering or other
       technical issue, or other circumstances not identified at the time the final development plan
       was approved. No change authorized under this section may cause any of the following
       ("major changes"):

       A. A change in the use and/or character of the development.

       B. An increase in the overall density and/or intensity of use for any portion of the project.

       C. Any increase in overall coverage of structures.

       D. A reduction or change in character of approved open space.

                                                12
       E. A reduction of required off-street parking.

       F. Any alteration to the pedestrian, vehicular, bicycle, circulation, or utility networks.

       G. A reduction in required street pavement widths.

       H. Any increase in building height.

       I. Any decrease in building setback.

       Any major changes must be proposed to the planning commission after receipt of a
       recommendation by planning staff consistent with chapter 84 of this title. Proposals under
       items A. through I. above require the filing of a new application.

       Any major changes must be recorded as amendments in accordance with the procedure
       established for adopting the final development plan.

30. Section 19.80.090 is amended to read:

       19.80.090 Planning Commission Exceptions

       Upon a finding by the planning commission that a proposed site plan is in harmony with
       the general plan of the community in which it is located and that effective tools have been
       employed in the creation of a transit oriented development, community re-development
       project, or walkable community project, the planning commission may reduce the number
       of required parking stalls for any proposed development, provided that a written request
       for such exception accompanies the application in accordance with the process identified
       in chapter 84 of this title. In approving any such reduction, the planning commission may
       use such tools as: recommendations from the planning and development services staff a
       site-specific traffic study conducted by a qualified engineering firm, American Planning
       Association guidelines, Envision Utah guidelines, and/or Urban Land Institute guidelines.

31. Chapter 19.84 (Conditional Uses) is repealed in its entirety and replaced as follows:

       19.84.010 Purpose

       The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a reasonable application, review, and
       approval process for land uses that are specified as "conditional," such that: (i)
       proposed new land uses meet Kearns Metro Township standards and are properly
       integrated into the community; and (ii) that those that appear to violate Kearns
       Metro Township standards are effectively mitigated or prohibited. Conditional uses
       shall be approved on a case-by-case basis if the planning commission can impose
       reasonable conditions to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of
       the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards in accordance with
       applicable Utah law.


                                                13
19.84.020 Conditional Use Permit Required

A conditional use permit shall be required for all uses listed as conditional uses in
the Kearns Metro Township Code.

19.84.030 Application Requirements--Fee

Only when the following elements are satisfied is a conditional use application
deemed complete:

A. An application for a conditional use permit has been made by the property
   owner or certified agent thereof in writing upon the form(s) designated by the
   director or director's designee;

B. All required documents and fully completed forms have been submitted to the
   director, the director’s designee, or staff, including but not limited to detailed
   site plans and specifications drawn to scale, meeting at least the minimum
   requirements identified in section 19.02.080 of the Kearns Metro Township
   Code, unless waived by the director or director's designee; and

C. The initial application fee for any conditional use permit, as provided for in the
   Kearns Metro Township Code has been paid, provided that the payment of a
   partial application fee, or the submittal of plans for a pre-submittal review,
   does not constitute a complete application.

19.84.040 Application Review

A. After the director or the director's designee has determined that a conditional
   use application is complete pursuant to Section 19.84.030, the director or
   director’s designee shall administer an application review procedure in which
   the proposed use and the proposed site development plan are evaluated for
   compliance with all applicable ordinances and codes and for anticipated
   detrimental effects.

B. The application review procedure shall contain the following components:

   1. Referral of the application to all affected entities;
   2. A review of the proposed site plan for compliance with applicable sections
      of the zoning ordinance, the general plan, and other applicable provisions
      of the Kearns Metro Township Code; and
   3. A review of the proposed use and site plan to ascertain potential negative
      impacts and whether reasonable conditions can be imposed to mitigate
      those impacts.

C. The application review procedure may include the following:



                                         14
   1. Referral of the application to government or regulating entities, including
      other applicable Kearns Metro Township staff for recommendations;
   2. A pre-application meeting, in which preliminary site plans are reviewed
      and discussed prior to finished plans being submitted for review;
   3. An on-site review of the proposal by the director, director's designee or
      staff;
   4. A requirement that the applicant submit impact studies or other technical
      studies regarding grading, drainage, traffic, geologic hazards, etc.; and

D. The director or the director's designee shall present a review, summary and
   recommendation to the planning commission after having provided the
   applicant with a copy as required by state law and such recommendation shall
   remain part of the public record.

19.84.050 Approval/Denial Authority

The planning commission is the land use authority for conditional uses and has the
authority to approve, deny, or approve with conditions conditional use
applications. The planning commission shall not consider a conditional use
application at a meeting if the application and the information required under this
chapter and any other applicable sections of the Kearns Metro Township Code,
including without limitation chapters 19.02 and 19.78, were not submitted at least
30 days prior to the date of the public meeting.

A. Planning Commission Approval.

   1. The planning commission shall review and approve or deny each
      application during a public meeting.
   2. The planning commission's decision shall be based on information
      presented through the public meeting process, including: the materials
      submitted by the applicant, the recommendation of the director or director's
      designee, and input from interested parties and affected entities.
   3. If conditions are specified, the director or director's designee shall issue a
      final approval letter upon satisfaction of the planning commission's
      conditions of approval.
   4. If the applicant fails to meet all conditions of approval within twelve months
      of the planning commission's decision, the application is deemed denied. A
      twelve-month extension may be granted upon the payment of an additional
      filing fee equal to the original filing fee.
   5. The planning commission shall make a decision on a complete conditional
      use application within a reasonable time frame, not to exceed ninety days
      of the date the application is deemed complete unless the director or the
      director’s designee issues a written determination to the applicant
      explaining why additional time is needed to review the application. The
      planning commission is authorized to review and take action on an



                                        15
        application as outlined in Section 19.84.040 after having notified the
        applicant of the meeting date.
     6. Failure by the applicant to provide information that has been requested by
        the planning commission, the director or director's designee to resolve
        conflicts with the standards in Section 19.84.060 (above) may result in an
        application being denied.
     7. The planning commission’s authority to approve a conditional use
        application is limited to the information included in the complete
        conditional use application that the director, the director’s designee, or
        staff have reviewed pursuant to this chapter. The planning commission shall
        not approve any modifications, alterations, or deviations that an applicant
        may propose to a complete conditional use application that the director, the
        director’s designee, or the staff have not reviewed pursuant to this chapter.
        The director may grant exceptions to this requirement if the director
        determines in writing that the modification, alteration, or deviation is minor
        or immaterial, provided that the director may not grant exceptions to this
        requirement that involve the construction, modification, or relocation of
        any buildings, site plans, roadways, public thoroughfares, or changes in
        open space.

B.      Each conditional use application shall be:

     1. Approved if the proposed use, including the manner and design in which a
        property is proposed for development, complies with the standards for
        approval outlined in Section 19.84.060; or
     2. Approved if the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the use,
        including but not limited to the manner and design in which the property is
        proposed for development, can be mitigated with the imposition of
        reasonable conditions to bring about compliance with the standards
        outlined in Section 19.84.060, provided that the reasonably anticipated
        detrimental effects need not be eliminated; or
     3. Denied if the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use
        cannot be mitigated with the imposition of reasonable conditions of
        approval to bring about compliance with the standards outlined in Section
        19.84.060.

19.84.060 Standards for Approval

Prior to approval, all conditional uses and accompanying site development plans
must be found to conform to the following standards:

A. The proposed site development plan shall comply with all applicable provisions
   of the zoning ordinance, including parking, building setbacks, and building
   height.




                                          16
B. The proposed use and site development plan shall comply with all other
   applicable laws and ordinances, including but not limited to the general plan.

C. The proposed use and site development plan shall not present a serious traffic
   hazard due to poor site design or to anticipated traffic increases on the nearby
   road system which exceed the amounts called for under the Kearns Metro
   Township transportation master plan.

D. The proposed use and site development plan shall not pose a serious threat to
   the safety of persons who will work on, reside on, or visit the property nor pose
   a serious threat to the safety of residents or properties in the vicinity by failure
   to adequately address the following issues: fire safety, geologic hazards, soil
   or slope conditions, liquefaction potential, site grading/topography, storm
   drainage/flood control, high ground water, environmental health hazards, or
   wetlands.

E. The proposed use and site development plan shall not adversely impact
   properties in the vicinity of the site through lack of compatibility with nearby
   buildings in terms of size, scale, height, or noncompliance with community
   general plan standards.

19.84.075 Graffiti Preventative Materials or Design

A. Whenever the planning commission determines that there is a reasonable
   likelihood that graffiti will be placed on the surfaces of proposed improvements
   it shall require, as part of the conditional use approval, that the applicant apply
   an anti-graffiti material, approved by the development services division, to each
   of the surfaces to be constructed. The anti-graffiti material shall be used on
   surfaces from ground level to a height of nine feet. The planning commission
   may approve dense planting or appropriate design measures in place of anti-
   graffiti materials.

B. Whenever the planning commission becomes aware of graffiti having been
   placed on any surfaces constructed as part of development approved as a
   conditional use, it may require that the applicant or his/her successor in interest
   apply an anti-graffiti material to such surfaces where no such material was
   previously required.

19.84.080 Appeals

Any adversely affected person shall have the right to appeal to the land use hearing
officer any decision rendered by the planning commission, the director or director's
designee by filing in writing, stating the reasons for the appeal with the land use
hearing officer, within ten days following the date upon which the decision is made.
Appeals to the land use hearing officer shall comply with the following procedures:



                                          17
A. Upon scheduling a hearing date, the land use hearing officer shall notify the
   director or the director’s designee at least two weeks prior to the hearing to
   allow preparation of the record.

B. The director or the director’s designee shall prepare a copy of the record of the
   proceedings and decision being appealed for presentation to the land use
   hearing officer.

C. The hearing officer shall review the record, and may not accept or consider any
   evidence outside the record unless the evidence was offered to and was
   excluded by the planning commission, the director or director's designee and
   the hearing officer determines that it was improperly excluded.
D. The land use hearing officer shall review the planning commission's or the
   development services division's actions to determine whether the decision was
   arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.

E. The filing of an appeal does not automatically stay the decision; however, the
   land use hearing officer has the authority to stay the decision while the appeal
   is pending.

F. After review of the record and written and oral argument on both sides, the
   hearing officer may affirm, reverse, alter, or remand to the planning
   commission, the director or director's designee for further review and
   consideration the action taken by the planning commission, the director or
   director's designee.

19.84.095 Preliminary and Final Approval of Conditional Use Applications

A. Unless otherwise designated, a decision approving a conditional use
   application shall be a preliminary approval of the application.

B. Except as specified in subsection C and D of this section, the director is
   authorized to grant final approval of conditional use applications after all of
   the conditions and requirements of the preliminary approval which are
   necessary for the final approval have been met. Final approval of a conditional
   use application shall be in the form of a letter to the applicant which, together
   with the approved site plan if required, shall constitute the conditional use
   permit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the director or the director’s designee
   may, for any reason, request that the planning commission review and grant
   final approval of a conditional use application.

C. The planning commission may require as a condition of preliminary approval
   that a conditional use application be brought before the planning commission
   for consideration of final approval.

D. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the planning commission must approve changes
   to a conditional use application that has received preliminary approval if the

                                        18
   changes: (i) modify the number or size of units or structures; (ii) modify the
   overall density or intensity of the project or any areas within the project; (iii)
   revise structure heights, locations, or use or purpose, including open space
   areas; (iv) modify plans for required improvements required by this title or title
   18 of the Kearns Metro Township Code; (v) reduce required off-street parking;
   or (vi) modify building setbacks.

19.84.100 Revocation of Conditional Use Permits

A conditional use permit may be revoked by the planning commission upon a
finding of failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the original permit or
for any violation of this title occurring on the site for which the permit was
approved. Prior to taking action concerning revocation of a conditional use permit,
a hearing shall be held by the planning commission. Notice of the hearing and the
grounds for consideration of revocation shall be mailed to the permittee at least
ten days prior to the hearing.

19.84.110 Hearing Officer

The director or the director’s designee may make recommendations to the planning
commission as to whether cause exists for the planning commission to recommend
revoking a conditional use permit. If the planning commission recommends that a
conditional use permit should be revoked, the Kearns Metro Township hearing
officer shall conduct an evidentiary hearing pursuant to Chapter 1.16 of the Kearns
Metro Township Code to consider the planning commission’s recommendation and
to determine whether the permittee has failed to comply with the terms and
conditions of the original permit or has otherwise violated any provision of the
zoning ordinance occurring on the site for which the permit was approved. The
hearing officer shall notify the planning commission if any violations have been
corrected by the permittee prior to the issuance of the hearing officer's
recommendations.

19.84.120 Inspection

Following the issuance of a conditional use permit by the planning commission the
building official shall approve an application for a building permit pursuant to
Chapter 19.94 of this title and shall ensure that development is undertaken and
completed in compliance with the permits.


19.84.130 Temporary Emergency Waivers

The director may grant a thirty-day temporary waiver to a condition in an approved
conditional use permit upon receipt of a written request from the permit holder if
the director determines in writing that compliance with the condition poses an
imminent threat to public safety, public health, or property. The Kearns Metro


                                        19
       Township mayor may extend a temporary waiver for an additional thirty days,
       provided that such extension shall be in writing and the mayor may only extend a
       temporary waiver twice. Planning commission approval is needed for any
       temporary waiver to extend beyond ninety days. The director or the director’s
       designee shall ensure that all written determinations made under this subsection
       are maintained as part of the file of the conditional use.

32. Section 19.90.010 is amended to read:

       19.90.010 Amendment Procedure

       The Kearns Metro Township Council may amend the number, shape, boundaries or area
       of any zone or any regulation within any zone. Any such amendment shall not be made or
       become effective unless the same shall have been proposed by or be first submitted for the
       recommendation of the relevant planning commission.

33. Section 19.90.020 is amended to read:

       19.90.020 Hearing--Notice

       Before finally adopting any such amendment, the Kearns Metro Township Council shall
       consider the application during a public meeting which has been properly noticed in
       compliance with the provisions of Title 52, Chapter 4, of the Open and Public Meetings
       Act.

34. Section 19.90.030 is amended to read as follows:

       19.90.030 Determination of Council

       The Kearns Metro Township Council, after review of the recommendation of the planning
       commission, may approve, deny, alter or remand for further review and consideration any
       application for zone change referred to the council by the planning commission, with the
       requirements of the standards, rules and regulations adopted by the council.

35. Section 19.90.050 is amended to read:

       19.90.050 Disapproval of Rezone Application

       Disapproval of an application to amend the zoning map shall preclude the filing of another
       application to amend the zoning map to reclassify the same parcel of property, or any
       portion thereof to the same zone classification or if the application is for a commercial
       classification to the same or any other commercial classification, within one year of the
       date of the final disapproval of the application unless the Kearns Metro Township Council
       finds that there has been a substantial change in the circumstances or sufficient new
       evidence since the disapproval of the application to merit consideration of a second
       application within the one- year time period.


                                               20
36. Section 19.90.070 is amended to read:

       19.60.070 Application to Amend the General Plan

       Subject to the restrictions in Sections 19.90.080 and 19.90.090, any property owner or
       authorized agent thereof may file an application requesting an amendment to the Kearns
       Metro Township general plan. Such application shall include the reasons or basis upon
       which the property owner believes the Kearns Metro Township general plan should be
       amended. Amendments to the Kearns Metro Township general plan shall comply with the
       procedures set forth in Chapter 9a of Title 10 of the state code.

37. Section 19.90.080 is amended to read:

       19.90.080 Restriction on Applications After Adoption of General Plan

       No application may be filed by any property owner or authorized agent thereof to amend
       any part of the Kearns Metro Township general plan for a period of one year after adoption
       of such part of the Kearns Metro Township general plan by the Kearns Metro Township
       Council.

38. Section 19.90.090 is amended to read:

       19.90.090 Disapproval of General Plan Application

       Disapproval of an application to amend the Kearns Metro Township general plan shall
       preclude the filing of another application to amend the general plan text in the same or
       similar manner or to amend the general plan map for any parcel of property or portion
       thereof to the same land use designation within two years of the date of the final
       disapproval of the application unless the planning commission finds that there has been a
       substantial change in the circumstances or other significant reasons since the disapproval
       of the application to merit consideration of a second application within the two-year time
       period. No appeal to the Kearns Metro Township Council may be taken from a planning
       commission decision rendered pursuant to this section.

39. This ordinance will become effective 20 days after publication pursuant to Utah Code Ann.
    § 10-3-711(1) and Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-712.

                                    [signatures on following page]




                                               21
APPROVED and ADOPTED this _______ day of _______________, 2020.

                                               KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                                               By: ________________________________
                                                   Kelly Bush, Mayor


ATTEST                                          APPROVED AS TO FORM:


_______________________________                 __________________________________
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk/Recorder                 METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY



VOTING

Council Member Bush voting             _____
Council Member Butterfield voting      _____
Council Member Peterson voting         _____
Council Member Schaeffer voting        _____
Council Member Snow voting             _____



 (Complete as Applicable)

 Summary of ordinance published in newspaper: _____________________

 Date of publication: ____________________________________________

 Effective date of ordinance: _____________________________________




                                         22
                                       SUMMARY OF

              KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO. 2020-08-01



       On the _____ day of __________________, 2020, the Kearns Metro Township Council

adopted Ordinance No. 2020-08-01, revising Title 19 and other applicable provisions of the Kearns

Metro Township Code regarding the approval and regulation of conditional use permits and to

make other updates needed to update the Code to reflect the metro township form of municipal

government.


                                                    KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                                                    By: ________________________________
                                                        Kelly Bush, Mayor



ATTEST                                               APPROVED AS TO FORM:


_______________________________                      ___________________________________
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk                               METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY

VOTING

Council Member Bush voting                  _____
Council Member Butterfield voting           _____
Council Member Peterson voting              _____
Council Member Schaeffer voting             _____
Council Member Snow voting                  _____

A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2020-08-01 is available in the office of the Kearns Metro
Township Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.




                                               23
