                                                   Planning and Development Services
                                                   2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                   Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                                   https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/




                                     Kearns Planning Commission
                                                       Public Meeting Agenda

                              Monday, August 9, 2021 5:30 P.M.
Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-207(5), Jerry Wellman has determined in his capacity as Chair of the Kearns Planning Commission that this
meeting and/or public hearing will be held electronically without an anchor location given the ongoing Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)
pandemic, which the Chair has determined to present a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at an anchor location.
To participate in the meeting and to make public comments where indicated in the agenda, please use the below webinar instructions.
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
https://slco.webex.com/join/wgurr
Join meeting in WebEx (download available at https://www.webex.com/downloads.html for Windows,
Android, and Apple devices)
Tap to join from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065,,961841420## United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783,,961841420## United States Toll (Phoenix)
Join by phone
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.



                                                      BUSINESS MEETING

     1) Welcome and approval of the agenda. (Motion/Voting)
     2) Approval of the June 14, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
     3) Other Business Items. (As Needed)




August 9, 2021                                                   Page 1 of 2                                             AGENDA – KEARNS
                                LAND USE APPLICATION(S)

CUP2020-000096 - St. Francis Xavier School is requesting an Extension for the Temporary
Change to the original Conditional Use allowing for pick up and drop off along 4520 West, during
the COVID-19 restriction period. Acreage: 4.73 acres. Location: 4501 West 5215 South. Zone:
P.I. (Public Facility Zone). Planner: Diana Martinez (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on these applications prior
to acting on the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three
minutes per person.

                                    PUBLIC HEARING(S)

OAM2021-000388 – A proposal to amend the existing Floodplain Ordinance in Section 19.74 of
the Kearns Municipal Code. This update will replace the existing Section 19.74 with new language
that conforms with current State of Utah and FEMA requirements. Planner: Travis Hair
(Motion/Voting)

OAM2021-000391 – A proposal to amend Section 19.62.030 of the Kearns Municipal Code which
would add Used Car Dealership to the Permitted Use table in the C-2 zone. Planner: Travis Hair
(Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed Land Use Ordinance changes after taking
comments from the public during the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant
to the planning commission’s rules of conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda.
Public comments will be limited to three minutes per person.

                                           ADJOURN




August 9, 2021                              Page 2 of 2                           AGENDA – KEARNS
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebutals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



August 9, 2021                                        Page 1 of 1                                   AGENDA – KEARNS
                                                      Planning and Development Services
                                                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




**Notice of this meeting posted June 3, 2021 to https://www.utah.gov/pmn/sitemap/notice/681655.html and notices
                                              mailed June 3, 2021**

                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                                 KEARNS PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                     Monday, June 14, 2021 5:30 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 28 minutes                                    *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 1                                         found on the State and County websites, or from Planning
                                                                          & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Nelson

                                                  ATTENDANCE
                                Public     Business                                                            Public      Business
        Commissioners                                    Absent                Planning Staff / DA
                                 Mtg         Mtg                                                                Mtg          Mtg
           David Taylor           x           x
                                                                                  Wendy Gurr                      x            x
     Joy Nelson (Vice Chair)      x           x
                                                                                   Travis Hair                    x            x
      Jerry Wellman (Chair)                                x
                                                                                  Jim McNulty                     x            x
            Joe Hatch                                      x
                                                                                 Nathan Bracken                   x            x
          Laura Koester           x           x



                                                  BUSINESS MEETING

                                              Meeting began at – 5:30 p.m.

    1) Welcome and Approval of the Agenda

        Commissioner Taylor motioned to approve the agenda, Commissioner Koester seconded that
        motion.

        Commissioner Nelson read the Chairs Opening Statement.

    2) Approval of Minutes from the May 10, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting.
       Motion: To approve minutes from the May 10, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting as presented.
             Motion by: Commissioner Koester
             2nd by: Commissioner Taylor
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present).

    3) Other Business Items (as needed)

        No other business items to discuss.


Kearns Planning Commission – June 14, 2021 – Meeting Summary                                                            Page 1 of 3
Commissioner Taylor motioned to close the business meeting portion, Commissioner Koester seconded that
motion.

                                           PUBLIC HEARING(S)
                                        Hearings began at – 5:34 p.m.

OAM2021-000342 - Proposed Land Use Ordinance Amendment for permitted and conditional uses in the
C-2, Commercial Zone to conform with the Kearns General Plan. Presenter: Travis Hair and Nathan
Bracken (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed Land Use Ordinance change after taking comments
from the public during the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the planning
commission’s rules of conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public comments will be
limited to three minutes per person.

Mr. Hair provided the changes. Mr. Bracken said the general plan is a lens to update the code and the
commercial zone is consistent.

Commissioners and Staff had a brief discussion regarding the effective date of the ordinance and Councils
discretion and authority.

Commissioner Nelson motioned to open the public hearing.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Kearns Community Council
Name: Roger Snow
Address: 5977 South Parkwood Drive
Comments: Mr. Snow asked if there is ground base floor commercial, is there a limit to amount of stories
above. General plan has four story possibilities in the industrial area. Kearns Community Council gives
favorable recommendation.

Mr. Hair said currently not, this is an immediate fix, anticipate a fixed standard in the future. Mr. Bracken
said there is maximum density in the general plan and hard time attracting commercial only and need
robust residential.

Commissioner Koester motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Taylor seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Motion: To recommend approval of file #OAM2021-000342 to the Kearns Metro Township Council for
adopting the Proposed Land Use Ordinance Amendment for permitted and conditional uses in the C-2,
Commercial Zone to conform with the Kearns General Plan. With provision for the Metro Township to
review the resolution # 3 to keep, change to immediately or expedite to 7 days.
       Motion by: Commissioner Taylor
       2nd by: Commissioner Koester
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)



Kearns Planning Commission – June 14, 2021 – Meeting Summary                                     Page 2 of 3
Commissioner Taylor motioned to adjourn.

                                          MEETING ADJOURNED
                                         Time Adjourned – 5:58 p.m.




Kearns Planning Commission – June 14, 2021 – Meeting Summary          Page 3 of 3
                                                  File # 24679

                                 Conditional Use Change Conditions of Approval
Public Body: Kearns Planning Commission
Meeting Date: August 9, 2021
Cityworks #: CUP2020-000096
Parcel ID: 21-07-381-011-2000
Current Zone: R-1-6
Property Address: 4501 West 5215 South
Request: Extension of Temporary Change to the Conditional Use conditions allowing for student pick up and
drop off along 4520 West, during the COVID-19 restriction period (Fall Term- until December 24, 2021)
Applicant: St. Francis Xavier School (Marianne Rozsahegyi)

MSD Planner: Diana Martinez
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval with conditions
Salt Lake County Engineer: Madeline Francisco-Galang
Salt Lake County Engineering Staff Recommendation: Approval


                                      PROJECT DESCRIPTION HISTORY
On September 11, 2017, the applicant, St. Francis Xavier School, came before the Planning Commission
requesting the ability to change the conditions of their Conditional Use approval, to allow student drop off and
pick up along 4500 West. The Planning Commission did not accept this request and asked that the school
facilitate the drop off and pick up of the students by having “all school traffic…routed entirely through the
(school) parking lot”.

The St. Francis Xavier School is asking the Planning Commission for a similar request to have the ability to drop
off and pick up the younger students (in preschool, kindergarten and first grade) along 4520 West, for a
temporary time during the COVID-19 pandemic period.

The applicant would like for students to be able to enter the doors that connect directly to the preschool-first
grade classrooms, which are right off 4520 West, rather than have these students walk from the school parking
lot through the school building, where the older students have classrooms. This would limit the exposure and
access to most of the school and other children.

The drop off time in the morning would be between 8:00 a.m. and 8:15 a.m. This proposal would involve 22
students. The pickup time in the afternoon would be between 2:50 p.m. and 3:10 p.m. This would include 8
students.


Conditional Use- Change of Approval                                                                      Page 1 of 2
The approval for the temporary pick up and drop off on 4520 West, was given with a three month monitoring
time attached. On November 20th, 2020, the MSD Planning Staff assessed the pandemic restrictions regarding
COVID-19, and determined that it was fair for the pickup and drop off continue on 4520 West, to allow the
younger grade children to go into the school at a separate entrance.

The applicant first made the request last year in August when the COVID restrictions were first implemented.
The request was given approval by the Planning Commission for the fall semester with the intent that Staff
would bring it back to the Planning Commission if more time was needed. The applicant came back to extend
the request through the rest of the school year. That request was given approval until June 1, 2021.




                                SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)

      The property is in an area of exclusively R-1-6 zoning with single family residential dwellings being the
predominate land use on all sides of the property. The only exception being a Baptist Church located across the
street from the northeast corner of the subject property.




                                                        R-1-6




                                      NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE

     Property owners within 300’ of the School’s property have been noticed (103 property owners in total). No
responses have been received regarding this issue.




Conditional Use- Change of Approval                                                                   Page 2 of 2
                                      PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
      The MSD Planning Staff recommends to the Kearns Township Planning Commission that the conditions of
approval be changed to allow a temporary drop off and pick up from 4520 West be extended until December
24, 2021, with all other conditions of approval remaining as currently constituted, and the additional
conditions to continue to be followed.
            1. This is an extension for the temporary change of approval until December 24, 2021.
                Staff will determine if the restrictions of the COVID-19 Pandemic have been cleared or
                reduced.
                     a. If the pandemic restrictions have been cleared or reduced, the school shall go back to
                         the original facilitation of using the parking lot as the main drop off and pick up area.
                     b. If the pandemic restriction have not been cleared or reduced, the MSD Staff will make
                         arrangements for the applicant to go back to the Planning Commission to determine
                         an appropriate extension time period for drop off and pick up to continue along 4520
                         West.
            2. This temporary change of approval is for the drop off and pick up of approximately 22 children
                attending the school.
            3. The school will need to determine which cars (students) are allowed to be in the drop off and
                pick up area along 4520 West. A car sticker or name board that designates the appropriate
                student cars, may be helpful to show the faculty which cars should and should not be dropping
                off or picking up along 4520 West.




Conditional Use- Change of Approval                                                                      Page 3 of 2
To:           Kearns Metro Township Council and Planning Commission

From:         Nathan Bracken, City Attorney

Re:           OAM2021- 000388 – Ch. 19.74 – Required Floodplain Revisions to Kearns Metro
              Township Code

Date:         July 30, 2021


The Federal Emergency Management Agency (“FEMA”) requires municipalities to adopt certain
control development ordinances to cover flood control risks as a condition for Kearns’ continued
participation in the National Flood Insurance Program (“NFIP”).

FEMA and the State of Utah have determined that Chapter 19.74 of the Kearns Metro Township
Code, which Kearns inherited from Salt Lake County pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-2a-414, is
no longer satisfactory for the purposes of covering Kearns’ flood damage prevention measures as
applied to development. Therefore, Kearns must adopt a new ordinance that is satisfactory to
FEMA and the State to remain eligible for participation in NFIP.

Travis Hair, with the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (Kearns’ municipal services
contractor), developed the enclosed changes to Chapter 19.74, which are based on templates and
guidance documents that FEMA and the State of Utah developed to guide municipalities in
updating their municipal codes. I have reviewed the proposed changes that Travis developed and
recommend their adoption.

Because these changes are part of the land use portions of the Kearns Code, they require a public
hearing before the Planning Commission, which will be held on August 9, 2021, at 5:30 p.m.
pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-502.




                                         Attachment
                               Ordinance revising Chapter 19.74
                                KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP

    ORDINANCE NO.: 2021-08-01                         DATE: August 9, 2021

          AN ORDINANCE OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
         REPEALING CHAPTER 19.72 OF THE KEARNS METRO CODE AND
          ENACTING A NEW CHAPTER 19.72 TO ESTABLISH FLOODPLAIN
         DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION

                                            RECITALS

      WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township (“Kearns”) is a municipality pursuant to Utah
Code Ann. § 10-2a-401, et seq; and

       WHEREAS, one of the natural disaster risks that exist in Kearns is the risk of flooding; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-3-701 and 10-9a-101 et seq. the Utah
Legislature delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations designed
to minimize flood losses; and

       WHEREAS, Kearns inherited Chapter 19.74 – Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance of the
Salt Lake County Code in Chapter 19.74 pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-2a-414, which is now
codified as Chapter 19.74 of the Kearns Metro Code (“KMC”); and

        WHEREAS, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (“FEMA”) mandates the
municipality adopt a flood control development ordinance that adequately covers and addresses
the flood control for risks that exist in Kearns to be a member entity of the National Flood Insurance
Program (“NFIP”); and

        WHEREAS, the current ordinance that was inherited by Kearns, namely Chapter 19.74 of
the KMC incorporating Chapter 19.74 of the Salt Lake County Code, has been deemed
unsatisfactory by the State and FEMA for covering and addressing Kearns’ flood damage
prevention measures due to development; and

       WHEREAS, adopting a new ordinance to conform with the regulations of FEMA and the
State will ensure Kearns ability to maintain its membership in the National Flood Insurance
Program.

       WHEREAS, the Kearns Planning Commission has recommended that the Council adopt
the proposed revisions to Chapter 19.74 after holding a duly notice public hearing on August 9,
2021, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-502, during which time it took public comment on the
proposed change.

       NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED: by the Kearns Metro Township Council the
following ordinance amendments, repeals, and additions to the Kearns Municipal Code of
Ordinances:
   A. Chapter 19.74 is repealed in its entirety and replaced with the form attached hereto as
      Exhibit A.

   B. This Ordinance will become effective immediately upon its passage and its publication on
      the Utah Public Notice Website pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-711(1).

   APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Kearns, Salt Lake County, Utah this 9th day of August, 2021.

                                                  KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL


                                                  By: ________________________________
                                                      Kelly Bush, Mayor


ATTEST
                                                  APPROVED AS TO FORM:

_______________________________
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk/Recorder                   _________________________________
                                                  Nathan Bracken,
VOTING                                            Metro Township Attorney
Council Member Bush voting
Council Member Butterfield voting
Council Member Peterson voting
Council Member Schaeffer voting
Council Member Snow voting


 (Complete as applicable)

 Summary of ordinance published on Utah Public Notice Website:
 _____________________

 Date of publication:____________________________________________

 Effective date of ordinance:______________________________________




                                              3
                            SUMMARY OF
             KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO. 2021-08-01

       On August 9, 2021, the Kearns Metro Township Council enacted Ordinance No 2021-08-
01, repealing Chapter 19.72 of the Kearns Metro Township Code and enacting a new Chapter
19.72 to establish floodplain development standards and flood damage prevention.

                                                KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                                                By: ________________________________
                                                    Kelly Bush, Mayor


ATTEST
                                                 APPROVED AS TO FORM:
                                                 _________________________________
_______________________________                  Nathan Bracken,
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk/Recorder                  Metro Township Attorney

VOTING

Council Member Bush voting
Council Member Butterfield voting
Council Member Peterson voting
Council Member Schaeffer voting
Council Member Snow voting




                                            4
                                           EXHIBIT A

Chapter 19.74 - FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE

19.74.010 - Statutory Authorization.

    The Legislature of the State of Utah has in Utah Code Unannotated 10-3-701 delegated the
responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, the Kearns Metro Township council of Kearns, Utah does ordain as follows:
     The Kearns Metro Township elects to comply with the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Act of 1968 (P.L. 90-488, as amended). The National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) is a voluntary program administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA), a component of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and Kearns community
officials have elected to join the program, participate, and enforce this Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance and the requirements and regulations of the NFIP. The NFIP, established in the
aforesaid act, provides that areas of the Incorporated Kearns Township having a special flood
hazard be identified by FEMA, and that floodplain management measures be applied in such
flood hazard areas. Furthermore, Kearns Metro Township may elect to administer the Flood
Damage Prevention Ordinance to areas not identified as Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHAs) by
FEMA on the community’s effective Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), if the community has
documentation to support that there is an inherent risk of flooding in such areas.
19.74.020 - Findings.

   1. The flood hazard areas of the Kearns Metro Township are subject to periodic inundation
      which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
      commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public expenditures for flood
      protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general
      welfare.

   2. These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains that
      cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards
      areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous to other lands because they are
      inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage.

19.74.030 - Statement of Purpose.
    It is the purpose of this ordinance to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
    and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by
    provisions designed to:
         1. Protect human life and health;
         2. Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control projects;
         3. Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding that are
             generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
         4. Minimize prolonged business interruptions.
         5. Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water and sewer mains,
             electric and telephone lines, and streets and bridges located in floodplains.



                                  Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 1
       6. Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of
          flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize blight to future flood-prone areas;
       7. Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood area.

19.74.040 - Methods of Reducing Flood Losses.
    In order to accomplish its purposes, this ordinance uses the following methods:
        1. Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or property in times of
            flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or velocities;
        2. Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be
            protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction;
        3. Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective
            barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood waters;
        4. Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may increase flood
            damage;
        5. Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert
            floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other lands.

19.74.050 – Definitions

Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this ordinance shall be interpreted to
give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this ordinance its most
reasonable application.

100-Year Flood means a flood having a recurrence interval that has a 1-percent chance of being
equaled or exceeded during any given year (1-percent-annual-chance flood). The terms “100-
hundred-year flood” and “1-percent-annual-chance flood” are synonymous. The term does not
imply that the flood will necessarily happen once every 100 hundred years. Mandatory flood
insurance requirements may apply.

100-Year Floodplain means the area of land susceptible to being inundated due to the
occurrence of a 1-percent-annual-chance flood.

500-Year Flood means a flood having a recurrence interval that has a 0.2-percent chance of
being equaled or exceeded during any given year (0.2-percent-annual-chance flood). The term
does not imply that the flood will necessarily happen once every 500 years and mandatory flood
insurance requirement generally does not apply.

500-Year Floodplain means the area of land susceptible to being inundated due to the
occurrence of a 0.2-percent-annual-chance flood.

Accessory Structure is a structure that is on the same parcel of property as a principal structure.
Its use is incidental to the use of the principal structure the ownership of the accessory structure
is the same owner as of the principal structure. An accessory structure is a non-residential
structure of low value that is used solely for the parking of vehicles and storage of tools,
materials, or equipment. No human habitation is allowed within an accessory structure.




                                   Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 2
Addition is any improvement that expands the enclosed footprint or increases the square footage
of an existing structure. This includes lateral additions added to the side, front, or rear of a
structure; vertical additions added on top of a structure; and enclosures added underneath a
structure.

Alluvial Fan Flooding means flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or similar
landform that originates at the apex. It is characterized by high-velocity flows; active processes
of erosion, sediment transport, and deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.

Apex means a point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path of the
major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan flooding can occur.

Appurtenant Structure—see Accessory Structure.

Area of Future-Conditions Flood Hazard means the land area that would be inundated by the 1-
percent-annual-chance (100-year) flood, based on future-conditions hydrology.

Area of Shallow Flooding means a designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH zone on a
community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1 percent or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of 1 to 3 feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where
the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.

Area of Special Flood-Related Erosion Hazard is the land within a community that is most
likely to be subject to severe flood-related erosion losses. The area may be designated as Zone E
on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After the detailed evaluation of the special flood-
related erosion hazard area, in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone E may be further
refined.

Area of Special Flood Hazard is the land in the flood plain within a community subject to a 1
percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may be designated as Zone A
on the FHBM. After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30,
AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, or V1-30, VE, or V. For purposes of these regulations, the term
“special flood hazard area” is synonymous in meaning with the phrase “area of special flood
hazard”.

Base Flood means the flood having a 1-percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.

Base Flood Elevation (BFE) is the water surface elevation of the 1-percent-annual-chance flood
event. It is the height in relation to mean sea level expected to be reached by the waters of the
base flood at pertinent points in the floodplains of coastal and riverine areas. It is also the
elevation shown on the FIRM and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for
Zones A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that indicates the water surface elevation




                                  Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 3
resulting from the flood that has a 1-percent chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any
given year.

Basement means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all
sides. A walkout basement that does not require a step up to grade is not considered a basement.

Best Available Data is existing flood hazard information adopted by a community and reflected
on an effective FIRM, FBFM, and/or within an FIS report; or draft or preliminary flood hazard
information supplied by FEMA or from another source. Other sources may include, but are not
limited to, state, other federal agencies, or local studies, the more restrictive of which would be
reasonably used by the community.

Breakaway Wall means a wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is
intended through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading forces,
without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or supporting foundation system.
Any walls below the lowest floor in a building in a V or VE Zone should give way under wind
and water loads without causing collapse, displacement, or other damage to the elevated portion
of the building of the supporting pilings or columns. Breakaway walls apply only to V or VE
Zones.

Building—see Structure.

Channelization means the artificial creation, enlargement, realignment, or alteration of a stream
channel’s slope, shape, or alignment. Streambank restoration may be deemed as channelization.

Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) is the codification of the general and permanent rules
published in the Federal Register by the executive departments and agencies of the Federal
Government.

Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) is FEMA's comment on a proposed project that
would, upon construction, affect the hydrologic and/or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding
source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective
BFEs, and/or the SFHA. The letter does not revise an effective map; it indicates whether the
project, if built as proposed, would be recognized by FEMA.

Conditional Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (CLOMR-F) is FEMA's comment on a
proposed structure or property. The letter does not revise an effective map; it indicates whether
the project, if built as proposed, would be removed from the floodplain.

Crawlspace means an under-floor space that has its interior floor area (finished or not) no more
than 4 feet from the bottom floor joist the next higher floor elevation, designed with proper
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures of flood water, and is not used for habitation.
Reference: 19.74.060 H

Deed Restriction refers to a clause in a deed that limits the future use of the property in some
respect. Deed restrictions may impose a vast variety of limitations and conditions. For example,



                                  Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 4
they may limit the density of buildings, dictate the types of structures that can be erected, or
prevent buildings from being used for specific purposes or from being used at all.

Detached Garage is a building that is used solely for storage of materials or vehicle parking for
up to four housing occupants. If a detached garage is designed or used for habitation or
conducting business, or has multiple stories, then the building is not considered a detached
garage under the NFIP.

Development means any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including
but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
demolition, excavation or drilling operations, or storage either temporary or permanent of
equipment or materials.

Elevated Building is a non-basement building built, in the case of a building in Zone A1-30, AE,
A, A99, AR, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the elevated floor above the ground
level by means of pilings, columns (post and piers), or shear walls parallel to the flow of the
water and adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a
flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of a building in Zone A1-30, AE, A,
A99, AR, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, an “elevated building” also includes a building elevated by
means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the
unimpeded movement of flood waters.

Enclosure refers to an enclosed walled-in area below the lowest floor of an elevated building.
Enclosures below the BFE may only be used for building access, vehicle parking, and storage.

Erosion means the process of the gradual wearing away of land masses by wind, water, or other
natural agents.

Existing Construction refers to structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that
date. It may also be referred to as Existing Structures.

Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision means a manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed
before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.

Existing Structures—see Existing Construction.

Expansion to an Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision means the preparation of
additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufacturing
homes are to be affixed (including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and
either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).

FEMA means the Federal Emergency Management Agency.



                                   Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 5
Fill refers to the placement of materials, such as dirt, sand, or rock to elevate a structure,
property, or portion of a property above the natural elevation of the site, regardless of where the
material was obtained from. The common practice of removing unsuitable material and replacing
with engineered material is not considered fill if the elevations are returned to the existing
conditions. Any fill placed or used prior to the area being mapped as a flood hazard area is not
deemed as fill.

Flood or Flooding means:
A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas
from:
           1. The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
           2. The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
           3. Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) that are proximately caused by flooding as defined in
               this ordinance and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of
               normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of water and
               deposited along the path of the current.
           4. The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of
               water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water
               exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high
               water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an
               unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by
               some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding as
               defined in this ordinance.

Flood Insurance Manual is the document FEMA produces twice a year and is used to write
flood insurance policies underwritten by the NFIP. The document contains definitions, policy
rates, coverage and limitations, application and insurance policy forms.

Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) means an official map of a community, on which the
Administrator has delineated both the SFHAs and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community.

Flood Insurance Study (FIS) or Flood elevation study means an examination, evaluation, and
determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related
erosion hazards.

Floodplain Development Permit is a community issued permit or document that is used for any
development that occurs within an SFHA identified by FEMA or the community. It is used to
address the proposed development to ensure compliance with the community’s ordinance.

Floodplain or Flood-Prone Area means any land area susceptible to being inundated by water
from any source whether or not identified by FEMA (see definition of Flooding).




                                  Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 6
Floodplain Management means the operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive
measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
flood control works, mitigation plans, and floodplain management regulations.

Floodplain Management Regulations means zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a floodplain ordinance,
grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and other applications of police power. The
term describes such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
standards for flood damage prevention and reduction.

Flood Opening refers to an opening in the wall of an enclosed structure that allows floodwaters
to automatically enter and exit the enclosure. Refer to FEMA Technical Bulletin 1.

Flood Protection System means those physical structural works for which funds have been
authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed specifically to modify
flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area within a community subject to an SFHA and to
reduce the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized, flood modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards. FEMA only accredits levees, both
private and public, that have been certified by a professional engineer or firm in which the
certification shows that the levee have met and continue to meet the minimum regulatory
standards cited in Title 44, Chapter 1, Section 65.10 of the Code of Federal Regulations (44 CFR
65.10).

Floodproofing means any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or
adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real
property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents. Floodproofing can either be
accomplished in the form of dry floodproofing in which the structure is watertight below the
levels that need flood protection, or wet floodproofing in permanent or contingent measures
applied to a structure that prevent or provide resistance to damage from flooding, while allowing
floodwaters to enter the structure or area.

Floodway—(Regulatory Floodway) - means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height.

Floodway encroachment lines mean the lines marking the limits of floodways on federal, state,
and local flood plain maps.

Freeboard means a factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for purposes of
flood plain management. “Freeboard” tends to compensate for the many unknown factors that
could contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated for a selected size flood and
floodway conditions, such as wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.




                                  Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 7
Functionally Dependent Use means a development that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes docking
facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
and ship building and repair facilities. It does not include long-term storage or related
manufacturing facilities.

Highest Adjacent Grade (HAG) means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior
to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. In AO Zones, the highest adjacent grade
is utilized by comparing the lowest floor elevation to that of the highest adjacent grade and the
depth of the AO Zone. Reference: 19.74.060 L: Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding
(AO/AH Zones).

Historic Structure means any structure that is:
   1. Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the
       Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
       meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
   2. Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to
       the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily
       determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
   3. Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with historic reservation
       programs that have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
   4. Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities with historic
       preservation programs that have been certified either:
           a. By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior, or
           b. Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.

Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) means an official amendment, by letter, to an effective
FIRM. A LOMA establishes a property’s location in relation to the SFHA. It is usually issued
because a property or structure has been inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain, when
the property or structure is actually on natural high ground above the BFE.

Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) means FEMA's modification or revision to an entire or portion
of the effective FIRM, or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, or both. LOMRs are generally
based on the implementation of physical measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic
characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory
floodway, the effective BFEs, or the SFHA.

Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F) means FEMA’s amendment, by letter, to an
effective FIRM where fill was brought in or used to elevate a property, portion of property or
structure above the BFE.

Levee means a man-made structure usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed in
accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert the flow of water so as
to provide protection from temporary flooding.




                                   Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 8
Levee System means a flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and associated
structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and operated in
accordance with sound engineering practices.

Lowest Adjacent Grade (LAG) means the lowest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to
construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. For an existing structure, it means the
lowest point where the structure and ground touch, including but not limited to attached garages,
decks, stairs, and basement windows.

Lowest Floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An
unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor;
provided, that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of Section 60.3.

Manufactured Home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on
a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when
attached to the required utilities. The term “manufactured home” does not include a “recreational
vehicle”; however, a manufactured home may be used for both residential and non-residential
use.

Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision means a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.

Map means the FHBM or the FIRM for a community issued by FEMA.

Mean Sea Level means, for purposes of the NFIP, the National Geodetic Vertical Datum
(NGVD) of 1929, North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or other datum, to which
BFEs shown on a community's FIRM are referenced.

Mixed Use Structures are structures with both a business and a residential component, but where
the area used for business is less than 50 percent of the total floor area of the structure.

New Construction means structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after
the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For the purposes of determining insurance
rates, structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of
an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.

New Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision
for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes
are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets,
and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the
effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.




                                   Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 9
No-Rise Certifications are formal certifications signed and stamped by a professional engineer
licensed to practice in the state, demonstrating through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that a proposed development will
not result in any increase (0.00 feet) in flood levels within the community during the occurrence
of a base flood event.

Physical Map Revision (PMR) is FEMA’s action whereby one or more map panels are
physically revised and republished.

Recreational Vehicle means a vehicle which is:
(a) Built on a single chassis;
(b) 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
(c) Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
(d) Designed primarily, not for use as a permanent dwelling but, as temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.

Riverine means relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including tributaries), stream,
brook, creek, etcetera, which can be intermittent or perennial.

Section 1316 refers to the section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended,
which provides for the denial of flood insurance coverage for any property that the Administrator
finds has been declared by a duly constituted State or local authority to be in violation of State or
local floodplain management regulations. Section 1316 is issued for a property, not a property
owner, and remains with the property even after a change of ownership.

Special Flood Hazard Area—see Area of Special Flood Hazard.

Start of Construction (for other than new construction or substantial improvements under the
Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)) includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation,
such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the
erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory
buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration
of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the building.

Structure means, for floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building, culvert,
bridge, dam, or a gas or liquid storage tank that is principally above ground, as well as a
manufactured home.



                                  Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 10
Structure, for insurance purposes, means:
(1) A building with two or more outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof, which is affixed to a
permanent site;
(2) A manufactured home (“a manufactured home,” also known as a mobile home, is a structure:
built on a permanent chassis, transported to its site in one or more sections, and affixed to a
permanent foundation); or
(3) A travel trailer without wheels built on a chassis and affixed to a permanent foundation, that
is regulated under the community's floodplain management and building ordinances or laws.
For insurance purposes, “structure” does not mean a recreational vehicle or a park trailer or other
similar vehicle, except as described in paragraph (3) of this definition, or a gas or liquid storage
tank.

Substantial Damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of
restoring the structure to its pre-damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.

Substantial Improvement means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value
of the structure before the “start of construction” of the improvement. This term includes
structures which have incurred “substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work
performed.

The term does not, however, include:
   1. Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local
       health, sanitary, or safety code specifications that have been identified by the local code
       enforcement official and are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   2. Any alteration of a “historic structure”, if the alteration will not preclude the structure's
       continued designation as a “historic structure.”

Variance means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of a flood plain management
regulation. Reference: 19.74.050 E. Variance Procedures

Violation means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
community's flood plain management regulations. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in Sections 44
CFR 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.

Water surface elevation means the height, in relation to the North American Vertical Datum
(NAVD) of 1988, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies, such as the 1-percent-annual-chance flood event, in the flood plains of coastal or
riverine areas.

Watercourse means the channel and banks of an identifiable water in a creek, brook, stream,
river, ditch or other similar feature.



                                   Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 11
19.74.050 - General Provisions.

   A. Lands to Which This Ordinance Applies

       The ordinance shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA within
       the jurisdiction of The Kearns Metro Township.

       1. Annexation
          When the community annexes any land from a neighboring jurisdiction, Kearns
          Metro Township will manage and regulate the annexed land under this ordinance.

   B. Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard

       The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency Management
       Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study for
       Salt Lake County and Incorporated Communities," dated June 19, 2020, with
       accompanying FIRMs, and any revisions thereto are hereby automatically adopted by
       reference and declared to be a part of this ordinance.

   C. Establishment of Development Permit

       A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
       provisions of this ordinance.

   D. Fees

       Standard fees may be charged for applications under these provisions. Additionally, fees
       for any engineering reviews will be billed to the applicant.

   E. Abrogation and Greater Restrictions

       This ordinance is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements,
       covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this ordinance and another ordinance,
       easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
       stringent restrictions shall prevail.

   F. Interpretation

       In the interpretation and application of this ordinance, all provisions shall be:
       1. Considered as minimum requirements;
       2. Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
       3. Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state statutes.

   G. Warning and Disclaimer of Liability
      The degree of flood protection required by this ordinance is considered reasonable for
      regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare



                                Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 12
   occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by
   human-made or natural causes.

   This ordinance does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses
   permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This ordinance
   shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or employee thereof
   for any flood damages that result from reliance on this ordinance or any administrative
   decision lawfully made thereunder.

H. Severability

   If any section, provision, or portion of this ordinance is adjudged unconstitutional or
   invalid by a court, the remainder of the ordinance shall not be affected.

I. Compliance

   No structures or developments including buildings, recreation vehicles, or manufactured
   homes or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use changed without full
   compliance with the terms of this ordinance and other applicable regulations. Nothing
   herein shall prevent the Kearns Metro Township from taking such lawful action as is
   necessary to prevent or remedy any violations.

J. Stop Work Order

   1. Authority. Whenever the floodplain administrator or other community official
      discovers any work or activity regulated by this ordinance being performed in a
      manner contrary to the provision of this ordinance, the floodplain administrator is
      authorized to issue a stop work order.

   2. Issuance. The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of
      the property involved, or to the owner’s agent, or to the person doing the work. Upon
      issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately cease. The stop work
      order shall state the reason for the order, and the conditions under which the cited
      work will be permitted to resume.

   3. Unlawful continuance. Any person who shall continue any work after having been
      served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform
      to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed
      by local or state law including but not limited to the penalties outlined in19.74.050(K)
      – Penalties for Noncompliance.

K. Penalties for Noncompliance

   In accordance with Section 59.2(b) of CFR 44, Chapter 1, of the NFIP regulation, to
   qualify for the sale of federally subsidized flood insurance, a community must adopt
   floodplain management regulations that meet or exceed the minimum standards of



                             Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 13
      Section 60. “These regulations must include effective enforcement provisions.” In
      accordance with Section 60.1(b) of CFR 44, Chapter 1, of the NFIP regulations, “These
      regulations must be legally-enforceable, applied uniformly throughout the community to
      all privately and publicly owned land within flood-prone (i.e. mudflow) or flood-related
      erosion areas, and the community must provide that the regulations take precedence over
      less restrictive conflicting local laws, ordinances, or codes.”

      Therefore:

      No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended, converted, or
      altered without full compliance with the terms of this ordinance and other applicable
      regulations. Violation of the provisions of this ordinance by failure to comply with any of
      its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
      connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this
      ordinance or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be
      fined not more than $ 10,000.00 or imprisoned for not more than 180 days, or both, for
      each violation assessed daily, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in
      the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Kearns Metro Township from taking
      such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation

19.74.060 Administration

   A. Designation of the Floodplain Administrator

      The Director of Planning and Development Services or Their Designee is hereby
      appointed the Floodplain Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of
      this ordinance and other appropriate sections of the NFIP Regulations and 44 CFR
      pertaining to floodplain management.

   B. Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator

      Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be
      limited to, the following:

         1. Uphold the goals of the community and the NFIP to reduce risk when possible
            and increase the community’s resistance to future disasters.

         2. Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to the
            provisions of this ordinance, including the actual elevation of the lowest floor
            (including basement or crawlspace) of all new or substantially improved
            structures and any floodproofing certificates, including the data supporting such
            certificates.

         3. Maintain and hold open for public inspection maps that identify and locate the
            boundaries of the SFHAs to which this ordinance applies, including, but not




                               Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 14
   limited to, the FIRM.

4. Review development proposals to determine whether a proposed building site,
   including sites designed for the placement of manufactured homes, will be
   reasonably safe from flooding.

5. Review, approve, or deny all applications for development permits required by
   adoption of this ordinance.

6. Ensure that all necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or
   local governmental agencies (including Section 404 of the Federal Water
   Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334 and the Endangered
   Species Act of 1973) from which prior approval is required.

7. Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of
   any watercourse is maintained.

8. Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State Coordinating
   Agency which is State of Utah Engineers Stream Alteration office, prior to any
   alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification
   to FEMA.

9. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the boundaries of the
   areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conflict
   between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), the Floodplain
   Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.

10. When BFE data has not been provided by FEMA, the Floodplain Administrator
    shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data and floodway data
    available from a federal, state, or other source including data provided by the
    applicant, in order to administer the provisions of this ordinance.

11. When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, no new construction,
    substantial improvements, or other development (including fill) shall be permitted
    within Zones A1-30, AE, and AH on the community's FIRM, unless it is
    demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
    combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
    the water surface elevation of the base flood more than 1.00* feet at any point
    within the community unless the community has adopted higher standard options.

12. Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12 of the NFIP
    Regulations, a community may approve certain development in Zones A1-30, AE,
    and AH on the community’s FIRM, which increases the water surface elevation
    of the base flood by more than 1.00* foot, provided that the community first
    meets the requirements of Section 65.12 for a conditional FIRM revision through




                      Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 15
          FEMA’s CLOMR process.

       13. If the project is determined or reasonably believed to cause an adverse effect on
           the BFE(s), boundaries of the floodplain or any insurable structures, technical
           justification for the proposed development shall be submitted and the community
           may require a CLOMR or LOMR to be submitted prior to the permit approval or
           as a requirement of the permit.

C. Requirement to Submit New Technical Data

       1. The property owner or developer shall notify FEMA by submittal of a LOMR
          within 6 months of project completion when an applicant had obtained a CLOMR
          from FEMA or when development altered a watercourse, modified floodplain
          boundaries, or modified BFE.

       2. The property owner or developer shall be responsible for preparing technical data
          to support the CLOMR or LOMR application and paying any processing or
          application fees to FEMA. The property owner or developer is responsible for
          submitting the CLOMR and LOMR to FEMA and shall provide all necessary data
          to FEMA if requested during the review process to ensure the CLOMR or LOMR
          is issued.

       3. The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to sign the Community
          Acknowledgement Form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR application, until
          the applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met the requirements of this
          ordinance and all applicable state federal, and local laws.

D. Permit Procedures
      1. Application for a Development Permit shall be presented to the Floodplain
         Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not be limited
         to:

              a. Duplicated plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and
                 elevation of proposed landscape alterations.

              b. Duplicated plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and
                 elevation of existing and proposed structures, including the placement of
                 manufactured homes.

              c. Location of the foregoing in relation to SFHAs.

              d. Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor (including
                 basement and crawlspace) of all new and substantially improved
                 structures, if applicable;




                             Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 16
       e. Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), to which any nonresidential
          structure (if applicable) shall be floodproofed.

       f. A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect that the
          nonresidential floodproofed structure (if applicable) shall meet the
          floodproofing criteria of this ordinance and the NFIP Regulations.

       g. Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural drainage
          will be altered or relocated because of proposed development, if
          applicable.

       h. At the community’s discretion, the community may charge a fee for
          issuance of floodplain development permits.

       i. Copies of all floodplain development permits and the associated
          documents shall become property of the community and a permanent
          record.

2. Approval or denial of a Development Permit by the Floodplain Administrator
   shall be based on all of the provisions of this ordinance and the following relevant
   factors:

       a. The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.

       b. The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage
          and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.

       c. The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of
          others.

       d. The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
          development.

       e. The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
          emergency vehicles.

       f. The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
          conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and
          public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
          systems.

       g. The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
          transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
          expected at the site.




                      Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 17
             h. The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable.

             i. The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or erosion
                damage, for the proposed use.

             j. The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for that
                area.

E. Variance Procedures

      1. The Appeal Authority or Variance Authority, as established by the community,
         shall hear and render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of
         this ordinance after a floodplain development permit has been denied.

               a. Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal
                  Authority may appeal such decision in the courts of competent
                  jurisdiction.

               b. The Appeal Authority, as established by the community, shall hear and
                  render judgement on an appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in
                  any requirement, decision, or determination made by the Floodplain
                  Administrator in the enforcement of administration of this ordinance.

               c. The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
                  involving an appeal and shall report variances to FEMA and the State
                  Coordinating Agency upon issuing a variance.

               d. Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
                  improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size
                  contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
                  below the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in this chapter
                  have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half
                  acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
                  increases.

               e. Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
                  ordinance, the Appeal Authority may attach such conditions to the
                  granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and
                  objectives of this ordinance.

               f. Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
                  increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.

               g. Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
                  structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
                  will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic



                           Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 18
                structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
                historic character and design of the structure. The term ‘‘substantial
                improvement’’ does not include any alteration of a structure or facility
                listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a State Inventory of
                Historic Places.

   2. Prerequisites for granting variances:

            a. Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is
               the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
               Variances shall only be issued upon:

                 i.   Showing a good and sufficient cause.

                ii.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
                      exceptional hardship to the applicant.

               iii.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
                      increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
                      extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or
                      victimization of the public, conflict with existing local laws or
                      ordinances, considers the need of ingress and egress during times
                      of floods, and does not jeopardize first responders’ health and
                      welfare.

            b. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice
              that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
              elevation below the BFE, and that the cost of flood insurance will be
              commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
              floor elevation.

            c. Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
               substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the
               conduct of a functionally dependent use provided that:

                 i.   The criteria outlined in 19.74.050 Variance Procedures are met;
                      and

                ii.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
                      minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no
                      additional threats to public safety.

19.74.060 Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction

A. General Standards




                         Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 19
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required for all new
   construction and substantial improvements:

      1. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
         modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
         movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
         including the effects of buoyancy.

      2. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by
         methods and practices that minimize flood damage.

      3. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with
         materials resistant to flood damage.

      4. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with
         electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and
         other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water
         from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
         flooding.

      5. All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
         or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.

      6. New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize
         or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and discharge from the
         systems into flood waters.

      7. On-site waste disposal systems shall be designed or located to avoid
         impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.

B. Substantial Improvement

   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or improvement of
   a building or structure, if the cumulative cost of the entire project equals or exceeds
   50 percent, unless a higher standard option is selected below, of the market value of
   the structure only (not of the structure and land value combined) before the
   improvement or repair is started then the work shall be considered as substantial
   improvement. If the structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are
   considered substantial improvements regardless of the actual repair work performed.
   For Substantial Damage, refer to 19.74.060 C. The term does not, however, include
   either:

      1. Any project for improvement of a building required to correct existing health,
         sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building official and that
         are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.




                         Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 20
      2. Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration will not
         preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure.

C. Substantial Damage

   Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
   cost of restoring the structure to its pre-damaged condition would equal or exceed 50
   percent of the market value of the structure only, unless a higher standard option is
   selected, before the damage occurred. This term also applies to structures which have
   incurred any damage that equals or exceeds 50 percent of the structure’s market value
   regardless of the actual repair work performed. When a structure or building has been
   determined as substantially damaged, any work or repair on said structure or building
   will be considered as substantial improvement and will be required to meet the
   development requirements set forth within this ordinance for substantial
   improvement.

D. Substantial Improvement and Substantial Damage Determination

   For applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
   alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy,
   additions, rehabilitations, renovations, and any other improvement of or work on such
   buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the
   applicable community officials and staff, shall:

      1. Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an appraisal of
         the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of the
         building or structure only, not of land and building, before the start of
         construction of the proposed work. In the case of repair, the market value of
         the building or structure shall be the market value before the damage occurred
         and before any repairs are made.

      2. Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a damaged
         building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of improvements
         and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or structure.

      3. Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes substantial
         improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination requires
         evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as
         specified in 19.74.060 sections B and C.

      4. Utilize FEMA’s Substantial Improvement/Substantial Desk Reference when
         making any determination on Substantial Improvement and/or Substantial
         Damage.

      5. The substantial improvement regulations apply to all of the work that is
         proposed as the improvement, even if multiple permits are issued. Therefore,



                        Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 21
          the determination of the cost of the improvement should consider all costs of
          all phases of the work before issuance of the first permit.

      6. Notify the applicant that if it is determined that the work constitutes
         substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
         with the flood, this ordinance is required.

E. Residential Construction

   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure shall have
   the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the BFE, unless a freeboard option
   is noted below. If a freeboard option is noted, new construction and substantial
   improvement shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the
   freeboard elevation. A registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor
   shall submit certified elevations to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of
   this ordinance are satisfied.

F. Nonresidential Construction

   New construction and substantial improvements of any commercial, industrial, or
   other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor (including basement)
   elevated to the base flood level, unless a freeboard option is noted below, or together
   with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base flood
   level the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
   water and with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic
   and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
   or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and plans for
   the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in
   accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this subsection. A
   record of such certification that includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean
   sea level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the
   Floodplain Administrator. If the use or occupancy of the building changes in the
   future to residential, then the dry floodproofing of the structure cannot be used when
   determining compliance of the structure to the residential construction of this
   ordinance. As such, the building will not be grandfathered into compliance and will
   be required to be brought into compliance with the residential construction
   requirements of this ordinance.

G. Enclosures

   New construction and substantial improvements, with fully enclosed areas below the
   lowest floor that are to be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or
   storage in an area other than a basement, and are subject to flooding shall be designed
   to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for
   the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
   certified by a registered professional engineer or architect, or must meet or exceed the



                         Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 22
   following minimum criteria:

      1. A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than 1 square
         inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be
         provided.

      2. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than 1 foot above grade.

      3. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings or
         devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.

   The development and construction of the structure must conform with the provision
   in FEMA/Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)-Technical Bulletins 1 and 2.
   Certification and documentation from a professional, licensed engineer or architect is
   required if the structure’s lowest floor is built below the BFE.

H. Crawlspace

   New construction and substantial improvements built on a crawlspace or sub-grade
   (below grade) crawlspace may be permitted if the development is designed and meets
   or exceeds the standards found in FEMA’s Technical Bulletins 1, 2, and 11, which
   include but are not limited to the following:

      1. The structure must be affixed to a permanent foundation, designed and
         adequately anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the
         structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
         effects of buoyancy. Because of hydrodynamic loads, crawlspace construction
         is not allowed in areas with flood velocities greater than 5 feet per second
         unless the design is reviewed by a qualified design professional, such as a
         registered architect or professional engineer.

      2. The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the BFE and, as such, must have
         openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
         and exit of floodwaters. The bottom of each flood vent opening can be no
         more than 1 foot above the LAG.

      3. The crawlspace enclosure must have proper openings that allow equalization
         of hydrostatic pressure by allowing automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
         To achieve this, a minimum of 1 square inch of flood opening is required per
         1 square foot of the enclosed area subject to flooding.

      4. Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with materials
         resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation walls of the
         crawlspace used to elevate the building, but also any joists, insulation, piers,
         or other materials that extend below the BFE. Ductwork, in particular, must




                        Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 23
        either be placed above the BFE or sealed from floodwaters.

     5. Any building utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
        BFE or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within the
        system components during flood conditions.

     6. The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be more than 2
        feet below the LAG.

     7. The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the lowest interior
        grade of the crawlspace floor to the bottom of the floor joist of the next higher
        floor cannot exceed 4 feet at any point.

     8. There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters from the
        interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained within a
        reasonable time after a flood event.

     9. Buildings with below-grade crawlspaces will have higher flood insurance
        premiums than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace construction, with
        the interior elevation at or above the LAG.

I. Manufactured Homes

     1. Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
        community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices
        that minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement,
        manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation,
        collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
        limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
        requirement is in addition to applicable State and local anchoring
        requirements for resisting wind forces.

     2. Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved
        within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites outside
        of a manufactured home park or subdivision;) in a new manufactured home
        park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
        subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
        which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
        flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
        manufactured home is elevated to or above the BFE, unless a higher standard
        option was selected, and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
        foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.

     3. In A-1-30, AH, AO and AE Zones, require that manufactured homes to be
        placed or substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park to be
        elevated so that the lowest floor is at or above the BFE, unless a higher



                       Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 24
          standard option was selected; or the chassis is supported by reinforced piers
          no less than 36 inches in height above grade and securely anchored.

J. Recreation Vehicles

   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE
   on the community's FIRM either:

      1. Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days unless the community has
         elected a higher standard option and be fully licensed and ready for highway
         use;

               a. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or
                  jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
                  utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
                  additions.

      2. Or meet the permit requirements of 19.74.050 D: Permit Procedures, and the
         elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes" of this
         section.

K. Standards for Subdivision Proposals

      1. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
         parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with the provisions of this
         ordinance.

      2. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
         parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
         exposure to flood hazards.

      3. All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the placement of
         manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet Development Permit
         requirements of this ordinance.

          BFE data shall be generated for subdivision proposals and other proposed
          development including the placement of manufactured home parks and
          subdivisions, which is greater than 50 lots or 5 acres, or whichever is lesser.

      4. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
         parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
         exposure to flood hazards.

      5. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
         parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer,




                         Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 25
          gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
          eliminate flood damage.

L. Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)

   Located within the SFHAs established in 19.74.050 A, Lands to Which this
   Ordinance Applies, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have
   special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of 1 to 3 feet where a clearly
   defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and
   where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
   sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions apply:

      1. All new construction and substantial improvements of residential structures
         have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the highest
         adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the
         community's FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified). If the
         community has elected a freeboard standard, then the lowest floor elevation
         must be elevated above the highest adjacent grade above the depth number
         specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number
         is specified) plus the freeboard height option selected below.

      2. All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
         structures:

          a. Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the highest
             adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the
             community's FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified). If the
             community has elected a freeboard standard, then the lowest floor
             elevation must be elevated above the highest adjacent grade above the
             depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least 2 feet if
             no depth number is specified) plus the freeboard height option selected
             below; or

          b. Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed so that
             below the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls
             substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
             components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
             hydrodynamic loads of effects of buoyancy.

      3. A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a certification to
         the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this Section.

      4. Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around structures on
         slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed structures.

M. Floodways



                         Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 26
Floodways located within SFHAs are extremely hazardous areas due to the velocity
of flood waters that carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the
following provisions shall apply:

   1. Designate a regulatory floodway that will not increase the base flood level
      more than 1 foot.

   2. Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction, substantial
      improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory floodway
      unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses
      performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed
      encroachment would not result in any increase greater than 0.00 feet, unless
      higher standard option selected, in flood levels within the community during
      the occurrence of the base flood discharge.

   3. All new construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all
      applicable flood hazard reduction provisions in this ordinance.

   4. Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the NFIP
      Regulations, a community may permit encroachments within the adopted
      regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in BFEs, provided that
      the community first applies for a conditional FIRM and floodway revision
      through FEMA.




                     Ord. 2021-08-01 Exhibit A – Page 27
To:    Kearns Planning Commission

From: Travis Hair, Planner

Date: August 9, 2021

Re:    OAM2021- 000342 – 19.62.020 – Addition of Used Car Dealer as a Permitted Use in the
       C-2 Zone


On June 9, 2021 the Kearns Planning Commission and Council approved changes to the C-2 zone
text and use tables. These changes moved existing conditional uses to the permitted use category
and removed a small list of uses that were no longer necessary in the zone. Additionally, it removed
a section that was part of the online code but was specifically meant for the C-3 zone rather than
the C-2 zone.

Since this meeting, there has been a request to add “Used Car Dealerships” to the use table. MSD
staff, after speaking with the Mayor and legal counsel have concluded that this is an acceptable use
for the C-2 zone. As a result, we would recommend adding this to the use table in the Kearns
Code, Section 19.62.020.




                                         Attachments:
                       Ordinance adding Used Car Dealership to 19.62.020
                               KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP

ORDINANCE NO.: 2021-08-02                                          DATE: August 9, 2021


    AN ORDINANCE OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL ADDING
    USED CAR DEALERSHIP AS A PERMITTED USE TO THE C-2 ZONE IN THE
               KEARNS TOWNSHIP CODE SECTION 19.62.020

                                          RECITALS

      WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township (“Kearns”) is a municipality pursuant to Utah
Code Ann. § 10-2a-401, et seq; and

      WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township Council (“Council”) is required to approve
changes to the Kearns Municipal Code of Ordinances; and

        WHEREAS, a request has been made to add “Used Car Dealership” to the Permitted Use
table in the C-2 zone; and

        WHEREAS, staff and legal counsel believe this use is appropriate in the zone and
consistent with the other uses allowed within the C-2 zone; and

       WHEREAS, the Kearns Planning Commission has recommended that the Council amend
the C-2 Zone to include used car dealerships after holding a duly noticed public hearing on August
9, 2021, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-502, during which time it took public comment on
the proposed change.

       NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED: by the Kearns Metro Township Council the
following ordinance amendments, repeals, and additions to the Kearns Municipal Code of
Ordinances:

   A. “Used Car Dealership” is added to section 19.62.020.

   B. This Ordinance will become effective immediately upon its passage and its publication on
      the Utah Public Notice Website pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-711(1)

                                 [execution on following page]
      APPROVED and ADOPTED this 9th day of August, 2021.

                                                KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                                                By: ________________________________
                                                    Kelly Bush, Mayor


ATTEST
                                                APPROVED AS TO FORM:

_______________________________
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk/Recorder                 _________________________________
                                                Nathan Bracken,
VOTING                                          Metro Township Attorney
Council Member Bush voting
Council Member Butterfield voting
Council Member Peterson voting
Council Member Schaeffer voting
Council Member Snow voting


 (Complete as applicable)

 Summary of ordinance published on Utah Public Notice Website:
 _____________________

 Date of publication:____________________________________________

 Effective date of ordinance:______________________________________




                                            3
                             SUMMARY OF
              KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO. 2021-08-03

        On August 16, 2021, the Kearns Metro Township Council enacted Ordinance No 2021-08-
02, adding used car dealerships to the C-2 zone. A complete copy of this ordinance is available in
the office of the Kearns Metro Township Clerk, located at 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt
Lake City, Utah.


                                                    KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                                                    By: ________________________________
                                                        Kelly Bush, Mayor


ATTEST
                                                      APPROVED AS TO FORM:
                                                      _________________________________
_______________________________                       Nathan Bracken,
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk/Recorder                       Metro Township Attorney

VOTING

Council Member Bush voting
Council Member Butterfield voting
Council Member Peterson voting
Council Member Schaeffer voting
Council Member Snow voting




                                                4
