                                                   Planning and Development Services
                                                   2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                   Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                                   https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/




                                     Kearns Planning Commission
                                                       Public Meeting Agenda

                            Monday, January 10, 2022 5:30 P.M.
Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-207(5), Jerry Wellman has determined in his capacity as Chair of the Kearns Planning Commission that this
meeting and/or public hearing will be held electronically without an anchor location given the ongoing Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)
pandemic, which the Chair has determined to present a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at an anchor location.
To participate in the meeting and to make public comments where indicated in the agenda, please use the below webinar instructions.
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
https://slco.webex.com/join/wgurr
Join meeting in WebEx (download available at https://www.webex.com/downloads.html for Windows,
Android, and Apple devices)
Tap to join from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065,,961841420## United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783,,961841420## United States Toll (Phoenix)
Join by phone
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and MSD staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.




January 10, 2022                                                 Page 1 of 2                                             AGENDA – KEARNS
                                    BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Welcome and approval of the agenda. (Motion/Voting)
    2) Election of Chair and Vice Chair 2022. (Motion/Voting)
    3) 2022 Planning Commission Meeting Schedule for Approval. (Motion/Voting)
    4) Approval of the October 11, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.
       (Motion/Voting)
    5) Discussion of Planning Commission annual training requirements – Nathan Bracken,
       Kearns Legal Counsel.
    6) Review of Rules of Order and Procedure – Nathan Bracken, Kearns Legal Counsel
    7) Discussion of development of possible amendments to Chapter 19.77 regarding water
       efficient landscape design and development standards – Nathan Bracken, Kearns Legal
       Counsel and Greg Anderson, Kearns Improvement District General Manager.
    8) Other Business Items. (As Needed)

                                LAND USE APPLICATION(S)

CUP2020-000096: St. Francis Xavier School is requesting a modification to the original
Conditional Use conditions to allow for limited pick up and drop off along 4520 West. Acreage:
4.73 acres. Location: 4501 West 5215 South. Zone: P.I. (Public Facility Zone). Planner: Molly
Gaughran (Motion/Voting).

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on these applications prior
to acting on the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three
minutes per person.

                                      PUBLIC HEARING

RWD2021-000495: Salt Lake County requests plat approval for dedication in Kearns Metro
Township for public right-of-way. Acreage: 1.742 acres. Location: 4715 South Street beginning
at Arlington Park Drive and continuing east. Zone: R-1-6. Planner: Molly Gaughran
(Motion/Voting).

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed Public Hearing items after taking comments
from the public during their respective public hearings. Public comments will be provided pursuant
to the planning commissions’ rules of conduct. Public comments will be limited to three minutes
per person. The public is also invited to review and inspect the proposed ordinances at
https://www.utah.gov/pmn/index.html under the respective Planning Commissions’ agendas.

                                           ADJOURN




January 10, 2022                            Page 2 of 2                           AGENDA – KEARNS
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



January 10, 2022                                      Page 1 of 1                                   AGENDA – KEARNS
This page intentionally left blank
                                    Planning and Development Services
                                    2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                    Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




           Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission
                           2022 Regular Meeting Schedule

 Meeting Place: Kearns Athletic Training and Event Center – 5658 South Cougar Lane
                      Time: 5:30PM Unless otherwise posted

                           The Public is Welcome to Attend

                               Monday January 10, 2022
                              Monday February 14, 2022
                               Monday March 14, 2022
                                Monday April 11, 2022
                                 Monday May 9, 2022
                                Monday June 13, 2022
                                 Monday July 11, 2022
                                Monday August 8, 2022
                             Monday September 12, 2022
                               Monday October 10, 2022
                             Monday November 14, 2022
                             Monday December 12, 2022


  UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR
QUALIFIED INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
                           TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.

      The Public May Attend. Meetings May Be Closed For Reasons Allowed By Statute.
                                                      Planning and Development Services
                                                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




  **Notice of this meeting posted September 30, 2021 to https://www.utah.gov/pmn/sitemap/notice/706105.html and
                               public hearing notices mailed September 30, 2021**


                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                                 KEARNS PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                    Monday, October 11, 2021 5:30 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 33 minutes                                    *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 2                                         found on the State and County websites, or from Planning
                                                                          & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Wellman

                                                 ATTENDANCE

                                Public     Business                                                            Public      Business
        Commissioners                                    Absent                Planning Staff / DA
                                 Mtg         Mtg                                                                Mtg          Mtg
         David Taylor             x           x
          Joy Nelson              x           x                                    Wendy Gurr                     x            x
                                                                                 Molly Gaughran                   x            x
        Jerry Wellman             x           x
                                                                                Lupita McClenning
           Joe Hatch              x           x
                                                                                 Nathan Bracken                   x            x
        Laura Koester             x           x



                                                 BUSINESS MEETING

                                              Meeting began at – 5:33 p.m.
    1) Welcome and Approval of the Agenda

        Commissioner Wellman read the Chairs Opening Statement.

        Commissioner Hatch motioned to approve the agenda, Commissioner Nelson seconded that motion.

    2) Approval of the September 13, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
       Motion: To approve minutes from the September 13, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting as
       presented.
              Motion by: Commissioner Hatch
              2nd by: Commissioner Nelson
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor.

    3) Other Business Items (as needed)
       No other business items to discuss.



Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – October 11, 2021 – Meeting Summary                                          Page 1 of 3
                                           PUBLIC HEARING(S)
                                       Hearings began at – 5:38 p.m.

REZ2021-000430 - Carolyn and Jose Rico are requesting a recommendation for approval to rezone
property from the R-1-6 (Single-Family Residential) zone to the C-2 (Commercial) zone. Acreage: .19
acre. Location: 5490 South 4015 West. Planner: Molly Gaughran (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed Rezone after taking comments from the public during
the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the planning commission’s rules of
conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public comments will be limited to three minutes
per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planning and Development Planner Molly Gaughran
provided an analysis of the staff report.

Mr. Bracken went over the law on rezones. Commissioner Nelson asked if they would have to abide by C-
2 zones with parking and easements. Mr. Bracken said they would be treated just like any other C-2 zones
and would no longer be residential.

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Carolyn Rico
Address: Not provided
Comments: Ms. Rico said she was hoping for commercial to keep the barbershop and not a good place for
residential.

Commissioner Wellman asked for business plans for the lot. Ms. Rico said not living there and the person
living there has a small business. Since the 90’s when they lived there, they had a small business. Hoping
to lease it out. Tenants intend to stay. Commissioner Taylor asked if changed to commercial, changes all
rules in leasing and has that been addressed. Ms. Rico said hasn’t looked into the necessary things to do is
to go commercial. Commissioner Taylor said assuming the tenant has a business license. Ms. Rico said
would probably want to make offices at some point.

Commissioner Taylor said the community council would have a negative recommendation.

Commissioner Nelson motioned to open the public hearing, Commissioner Hatch seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

No one from the public present to speak.

Commissioner Hatch motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Koester seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Commissioners had a brief discussion the regarding applicants knowledge and parking, insufficient plans,
general plan and uses, property values, similar Commercial use, increased traffic, and potential uses.




Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – October 11, 2021 – Meeting Summary                   Page 2 of 3
Motion: To recommend denial to the Kearns Metro Township Council of application #REZ2021-000430
requesting a recommendation for approval to rezone property from the R-1-6 (Single-Family Residential)
zone to the C-2 (Commercial) zone.
       Motion by: Commissioner Hatch
       2nd by: Commissioner Nelson
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor


Commissioner Wellman adjourned.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 6:06 p.m.




Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – October 11, 2021 – Meeting Summary             Page 3 of 3
                             Enrolled Copy H.B. 409 May 5, 2021
                                Planning Commissioner Training
(6) (a) (i) This Subsection (6) applies to:
(A) a city of the first, second, third, or fourth class;
(B) a city of the fifth class with a population of 5,000 or more, if the city is located
within a county of the first, second, or third class; and
C) a metro township with a population of 5,000 or more.
(ii) The population figures described in Subsection (6)(a)(i) shall be derived from:
(A) the most recent official census or census estimate of the United States Census
Bureau; or
(B) if a population figure is not available under Subsection (6)(a)(ii)(A), an estimate of
the Utah Population Committee.
(b) A municipality described in Subsection (6)(a)(i) shall ensure that each member of
the municipality's planning commission completes four hours of annual land use training as
follows:
(i) one hour of annual training on general powers and duties under Title 10, Chapter 9a,
Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act; and
(ii) three hours of annual training on land use, which may include:
(A) appeals and variances;
(B) conditional use permits;
(C) exactions;
(D) impact fees;
(E) vested rights;
(F) subdivision regulations and improvement guarantees;
(G) land use referenda;
(H) property rights;
(I) real estate procedures and financing;
(J) zoning, including use-based and form-based; and
(K) drafting ordinances and code that complies with statute.
(c) A newly appointed planning commission member may not participate in a public
meeting as an appointed member until the member completes the training described in
Subsection (6)(b)(i).
(d) A planning commission member may qualify for one completed hour of training
required under Subsection (6)(b)(ii) if the member attends, as an appointed member, 12 public
meetings of the planning commission within a calendar year.
(e) A municipality shall provide the training described in Subsection (6)(b) through:
(i) municipal staff;
(ii) the Utah League of Cities and Towns; or
(iii) a list of training courses selected by:
(A) the Utah League of Cities and Towns; or
(B) the Division of Real Estate created in Section 61-2-201.
(f) A municipality shall, for each planning commission member:
(i) monitor compliance with the training requirements in Subsection (6)(b); and
(ii) maintain a record of training completion at the end of each calendar year.
12/28/21, 1:41 PM                                 The Training Zone | Utah League of Cities and Towns

The Training Zone
Welcome to the Training Zone!

Here you will find resources from our Partner Organizations for training resources plus Utah's own online land
use training courses.

We are pleased to offer you courses that satisfy the training requirements under House Bill 409 passed by the
Utah State Legislature effective May 5, 2021. See full details of the requirements here: HB409 Utah Training 2021.
You will find the online course in the Land use 101 tab on the sidebar navigation bar to your left.

The online courses are developed in partnership with Utah State University Extension and Utah's Community
Development Office (CDO) . We extend immeasurable thanks to Professor Jake Powell at USU and Jordan
Katcher at CDO for their amazing time and talent for these courses.

 Required training for Planning Commissioners

      1. Online Training available. For those 83 cities trying to meet the four-hour annual Planning
         Commissioner Training the free hour-long Powers & Duties class that satisfies the first hour of training.
         Utah APA sessions, Urban Land Institute sessions, Utah Land Use Institute sessions, Office of Property
         Rights Ombudsman Office and Wasatch Front Regional Council sessions all qualify for the remaining three
         hours.
      2. Our #CitiesWork campaign is ongoing. We need to hear from you! Please send us photos or quick
         summaries of all the great work you are doing so we can share them with state legislators.

Here’s the link for the Cities Work stories submissions.

Here’s general information about Cities Work on our website.




Utah State University Extension “provides research based programs and resources intent on improving the
lives of individuals, families, and communities throughout Utah”. USU Landscape Architecture Extension helps
Utah State University fulfill its mission as Utah’s Land Grant University through providing community focused
design and planning assistance and developing programs, courses, and resources to assist in addressing planning
and design challenges. USU Extension also works to develop courses, often in partnership with other entities to
provide meaningful, targeted, accessible education and training opportunities to Utahn’s across the state.

Utah's Community Development Office (CDO) was established in 2013 as a resource for rural Utah. With
funding from the Permanent Community Impact Fund Board, their office supports regional planning
professionals, facilitates communication and coordination between stakeholders, and creates and delivers
training, tools, and informational resources. CDO provides grant funding up to $50,000 for planning through
their Small Planning Grant program, coordinates the Colorado Plateau Dark Sky Cooperative connects student
research to communities through their Utah Student Community Assistance Program, provides GIS-related
technical assistance, and also oversees the Utah Rural Coordinating Council Initiative.
https://luau.utah.gov/training-opportunities                                                                         1/2
12/28/21, 1:45 PM                                                     Open and Public Meetings Act Training 2021




    Open and Public Meetings Act Training
    2021
    Required Annual Training for All Public Governing Body Members


         Enroll for free




    Course Description

                    Who must complete it: All public governing body members
                    Time frame for completion: Yearly
                    Who provides it: Anyone the presiding officer deems appropriate
                    Who tracks it: Presiding officer, in conjunction with records officer
                    Who enforces it: Office of the Attorney General and County Attorney
                    Statute: Utah Code 52-4-104




https://training.auditor.utah.gov/courses/open-and-public-meetings-act-training-2021                               1/3
12/28/21, 1:45 PM                                                     Open and Public Meetings Act Training 2021


                                                                                            Office of the State Aud

                                 The Office of the State Auditor provides Utah taxpayers and government officia
                                 operation, statutory compliance, and performance management for state and l
                                     include performing financial audits, conducting Federal funds compliance a
                                 conducting agency and program performance audits, performing fraud and com
                                 Hotline for citizens to report suspected financial issues or improprieties. These
                                 and help taxpayers have confidence in the integrity of Utah’s government agenc
                                 of the State of Utah, elected directly by the state’s citizens every four years. The
                                                        VII, Section 15 of the Utah Constitution. For more informa




                                                 Course curriculum

           1        Introduction

                   Welcome


                   Disclaimer




           2        Video and Evaluation

                   Introduction to the Open and Public Meetings Act
https://training.auditor.utah.gov/courses/open-and-public-meetings-act-training-2021                                    2/3
12/28/21, 1:45 PM                                                     Open and Public Meetings Act Training 2021




                   OPMA Evaluation




           3        Feedback

                   Feedback Survey




                                                                     Enroll Free




https://training.auditor.utah.gov/courses/open-and-public-meetings-act-training-2021                               3/3
                                                         Planning and Development Services
                                                         2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                         Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                                         msd.utah.gov



                                              File # CUP2020-000096
                                              (Prev. Hansen File # 24679)




             Conditional Use—Change Conditions of Approval
 Public Body           Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission
 Parcel ID             21-07-381-011-2000
 Property Address      4501 West 5215 South
 Request               Modification to the Conditions of Approval for a Quasi-Public Use allowing for limited
                       student pick up and drop off along 4520 West
 Applicant             St. Francis Xavier Catholic School (Principal Marianne Rozsahegyi, Representing)
 Meeting Date          January 10, 2022
 Current Zone          PI (Public Facility)
 MSD Planner           Molly Gaughran
 Recommendation        Planning Commission Approval




                                          PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Project History
When the expansion to the school was approved in 2009 one of the conditions of that approval was that the
school would only allow drop off and pick up internal to the subject property and would eliminate the practice
of staging drop off and pick up on 4520 West. The school attempted to comply with the specific condition to not
allow drop off and pick up on 4520 West and to route school traffic onto the school property. (Attachment F)

In 2017, another traffic circulation issue was of concern when traffic was found to be backing up onto 5215
South during drop-off and pick-up times. The Kearns Metro Township Council initiated a request for review
before the Kearns Metro Planning Commission, which maintained that school traffic should be routed entirely
through the parking lot. (Attachment B)

On August 10, 2020, December 14, 2020, and August 9, 2021, St. Francis Xavier School asked the Planning
Commission for a similar request to have the ability to drop off and pick up the younger students—those in
preschool and prekindergarten—along 4520 West, for a temporary period of time during the COVID-19
pandemic. The Planning Commission approved this temporary location for the last three school semesters.
(Attachments C, D, E)
Request: Modification to Conditions of Approval                                            File #: CUP2020-000096

Due to the unpredictable duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, the applicant requests the ability to change the
conditions of their Conditional Use approval to allow this drop-off and pick-up location to be used indefinitely by
the preschool and prekindergarten students (typically three- and four-year-old students).

Location and Use Description
The younger students enter the doors that connect directly to the preschool and prekindergarten classrooms,
which are right off 4520 West, rather than have these students walk from the school parking lot through the
school building, where the older students have classrooms. This limits the exposure and access of the younger
students to most of the school and older students.

The maximum number of students currently dropped off in the morning at the subject location is 24 students,
most arriving between 8:00 a.m. and 8:15 a.m. and departing from this location at midday. Approximately 9
students arrive for the afternoon class, arriving at midday and departing the school between 2:50 p.m. and 3:10
p.m. The applicant confirms that no more than 28 students would use this location during peak drop-off or pick-
up times of the day.


                                    SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION
The subject property is zoned PI (public facility) and is located in an area of exclusively R-1-6 zoning—the only
exception being a First Baptist Church, zoned PI (public facility), located across the street from the Northeast
corner of the subject property. Single Family Dwellings are the predominant land use on all sides of the property.
The subject drop-off/pick-up location is along 4520 West, across from properties located in the R-1-6 zone.




                               Aerial of St. Francis Xavier School and surrounding area.




                                Subject drop-off and pick-up location along 4520 West.

Conditional Use Summary                                                                                  Page 2 of 5
Request: Modification to Conditions of Approval                                               File #: CUP2020-000096



                          ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
The main issue of concern is the traffic circulation both before and after school when children are being dropped
off or picked up. No traffic issues have been found by identified or reported to the MSD since the temporary use
of the drop-off and pick-up location on 4520 West for the younger students was approved in August 2020.



                                       NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
No neighborhood response has been received at the writing of this report.



                                   REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE
In 2017, Salt Lake County Traffic Engineering recommended approval of the request to remove the condition
restricting drop off and pick up locations and approval of the request to utilize 4520 South for pick up and drop
off. (Attachment B)



                                        PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
19.84.050 - Approval/denial authority.
The planning commission has the authority to approve, deny, or approve with conditions conditional use applications.

        A. Planning Commission Approval.
               1. The planning commission shall review and approve or deny each application during a public meeting.
               2. The planning commission's decision shall be based on information presented through the public
                    meeting process, including: the materials submitted by the applicant, the recommendation of the
                    director or director's designee, and input from interested parties and affected entities.
               3. If conditions are specified, the director or director's designee shall issue a final approval letter upon
                    satisfaction of the planning commission's conditions of approval.
               4. If the applicant fails to meet all conditions of approval within twelve months of the planning
                    commission's decision, the application is deemed denied. A twelve-month extension may be granted
                    upon the payment of an additional filing fee equal to the original filing fee.
               5. A planning commission decision shall be made on a complete conditional use application within a
                    reasonable time frame, not to exceed ninety days. The planning commission is authorized to review
                    and take action on an application as outlined in Section 19.84.040 after having notified the applicant
                    of the meeting date.
               6. Failure by the applicant to provide information that has been requested by the planning commission,
                    the director or director's designee to resolve conflicts with the standards in Section 19.84.060(above)
                    may result in an application being denied.
        B. Decision. Each conditional use application shall be:
               1. Approved if the proposed use, including the manner and design in which a property is proposed for
                    development, complies with the standards for approval outlined in Section 19.84.060; or
               2. Approved with conditions if the anticipated detrimental effects of the use, including the manner and
                    design in which the property is proposed for development, can be mitigated with the imposition of
                    reasonable conditions to bring about compliance with the standards outlined in Section 19.84.060; or
               3. Denied if the anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use cannot be mitigated with the
                    imposition of reasonable conditions of approval to bring about compliance with the standards outlined
                    in Section 19.84.060.


Conditional Use Summary                                                                                        Page 3 of 5
Request: Modification to Conditions of Approval                                                 File #: CUP2020-000096

19.84.060 - Standards for approval.
Prior to approval, all conditional uses and accompanying site development plans must be found to conform to the following
standards:

         Criteria                                                  Findings
         A. The proposed site development plan shall               The proposal does not involve new development;
              comply with all applicable provisions of the         therefore, the existing development complies with this
              zoning ordinance, including parking, building        standard.
              setbacks, and building height.

         B.   The proposed use and site development plan           The existing use is an elementary school and the
              shall comply with all other applicable laws and      proposed use will remain the same, except for a change
              ordinances.                                          in operations for pick-up and drop-off of children along
                                                                   4520 West. The existing school complies with all
                                                                   applicable laws and ordinances, and the proposal will
                                                                   continue to comply with these laws and ordinances.
         C.   The proposed use and site development plan           No serious traffic hazard has been identified or reported
              shall not present a serious traffic hazard due to    to the MSD during the temporary use of the pick-up and
              poor site design or to anticipated traffic           drop-off location from August 2020 to December 2021.
              increases on the nearby road system which
              exceed the amounts called for under the county
              transportation master plan.

         D. The proposed use and site development plan             The original proposal was requested due to the
            shall not pose a serious threat to the safety of       guidelines from the CDC during the COVID-19 pandemic
            persons who will work on, reside on, or visit the      to protect the health of students. No serious safety
            property nor pose a serious threat to the safety       hazard has been identified or reported to the MSD
            of residents or properties in the vicinity by          during the temporary use of the location from August
            failure to adequately address the following            2020 to December 2021.
            issues: fire safety, geologic hazards, soil or slope
            conditions, liquefaction potential, site
            grading/topography, storm drainage/flood
            control, high groundwater, environmental
            health hazards, or wetlands.

         E.   The proposed use and site development plan           No serious impact on neighboring properties has been
              shall not adversely impact properties in the         identified or reported to the MSD during the temporary
              vicinity of the site through lack of compatibility   use of the location from August 2020 to December
              with nearby buildings in terms of size, scale,       2021.
              height, or noncompliance with community
              general plan standards.




Conditional Use Summary                                                                                           Page 4 of 5
Request: Modification to Conditions of Approval                                          File #: CUP2020-000096



                              PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Planning Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve a modification to the condition of approval of
the Conditional Use Permit restricting drop off and pick up on 4520 to allow drop off and pick up at that location,
limited to preschool and prekindergarten students and that all other conditions of approval remain as currently
constituted.

The conditions of approval, as modified, is presented below:

    1. Site development and construction shall be performed in strict compliance with all applicable ordinances,
       codes, and development standards;
    2. Building construction and site development shall be performed in strict accordance with approved plans.
       Any proposed changes to approved plans shall be reviewed and approved by Salt Lake County in writing
       prior to construction.
    3. Upon completion of the addition, school traffic shall be routed entirely through the parking lot and
       eliminated from 4520 West Street.
    3. The use of the alternative drop-off and pick-up location along 4520 West Street shall be limited to
       students enrolled in the preschool and prekindergarten grades. Other school traffic shall be routed
       entirely through the parking lot.
    4. A minimum of 10 bicycle parking spaces shall be provided.
    5. Additional fire hydrants will be required. The square footage and construction class will determine how
       many. Verification of fire flow is also required.
    6. Additional sidewalk and an ADA ramp shall be installed to County standards at the Northwest corner of
       the site.
    7. All exterior lighting fixtures shall be located and adjusted so that night lighting is directed down is not
       allowed to spill beyond site boundaries.
    8. If outside trash containers are planned they shall be in an enclosure constructed of materials and colors
       that are compatible with the building.
    9. No signs are approved. Signs require separate approval.




ATTACHMENTS:
A. Aerial Map Image
B. Planning Commission Staff Report (dated Sept. 11, 2017)
C. Planning Commission Staff Report (dated Aug. 10, 2020)
D. Planning Commission Staff Report (dated Dec. 14, 2020)
E. Planning Commission Staff Report (dated Aug. 09, 2021)
F. Original Conditional Use Permit (Nov. 30, 2009)



Conditional Use Summary                                                                                  Page 5 of 5
ATTACHMENT A.
AERIAL IMAGE
                               ATTACHMENT B.
                               KEARNS PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT 09/11/2017




                                                  File # 24679


   Conditional Use Review Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission           Meeting Date: September 11, 2017
Parcel ID: 21-07-381-011-2000                                    Current Zone: R-1-6
Property Address: 4501 West 5215 South
Request: Remove a condition of approval from the
          Previously approved Conditional Use Permit

Planner: Todd A. Draper, AICP
Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval



                                        PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The Kearns Metro Township Council has determined that the St. Francis Xavier School has not complied with one
or more conditions of approval related to their current Conditional Use Permit, and has requested that the Kearns
Metro Township Planning Commission hold a public hearing to consider revisions to the conditions of approval.

                           SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
The property is in an area of exclusively R-1-6 zoning with Single Family Dwellings being the predominate land
use on all sides of the property. The only exception being a Baptist Church located across the street from the
Northeast corner of the subject property.




                                                        R-1-6
        Request: Modifications to Conditions of Approval                              File #: 24679


                          ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
The main issue of concern is the traffic circulation both before and after school when children are being dropped
off or picked up. When the expansion to the school was approved in 2009 one of the conditions of that approval
was that the school would only allow drop off and pick up internal to the subject property and would eliminate
the practice of staging drop off and pick up on 4520 West. The school has attempted to comply with the specific
condition to not allow drop off and pick up on 4520 West and to route school traffic onto the school property. As
a result, traffic now backs up onto 5215 South creating a safety hazard along the arterial street. The Kearns Metro
Township Council has reviewed the issue with Salt Lake County Transportation Engineers and has concluded that
the safest solution would be to allow for drop off and pick up along 4520 West. To do this the condition imposed
by the Planning Commission would need to be removed. Accordingly, the Kearns Metro Township Council has
initiated this request for review before the Kearns Metro Planning Commission.

                                      NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
Neighborhood response has been received by the Kearns Metro Township Council, but specific responses have
not been provided to staff. Neighborhood comments and responses are anticipated being heard as part of the
Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission Meeting.



                                  REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE
AGENCY: Salt Lake County Traffic Engineering                      DATE:
RECOMMENDATION: Approval of request to remove condition restricting drop off and pick up locations.
Approval of request to utilize 4520 South for pick up and drop off.



                                      PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
19.84.050 - Approval/denial authority.
The planning commission has the authority to approve, deny, or approve with conditions conditional use
applications.
A. Planning Commission Approval.
         1. The planning commission shall review and approve or deny each application during a public meeting.
         2. The planning commission's decision shall be based on information presented through the public
         meeting process, including: the materials submitted by the applicant, the recommendation of the director
         or director's designee, and input from interested parties and affected entities.
         3. If conditions are specified, the director or director's designee shall issue a final approval letter upon
         satisfaction of the planning commission's conditions of approval.
         4. If the applicant fails to meet all conditions of approval within twelve months of the planning
         commission's decision, the application is deemed denied. A twelve-month extension may be granted
         upon the payment of an additional filing fee equal to the original filing fee.
         5. A planning commission decision shall be made on a complete conditional use application within a
         reasonable time frame, not to exceed ninety days. The planning commission is authorized to review and
         take action on an application as outlined in Section 19.84.040 after having notified the applicant of the
         meeting date.




Conditional Use Summary                                                                                      Page 2 of 4
        Request: Modifications to Conditions of Approval                                File #: 24679

         6. Failure by the applicant to provide information that has been requested by the planning commission,
         the director or director's designee to resolve conflicts with the standards in Section 19.84.060(above) may
         result in an application being denied.
B. Decision. Each conditional use application shall be:
         1. Approved if the proposed use, including the manner and design in which a property is proposed for
         development, complies with the standards for approval outlined in Section 19.84.060; or
         2. Approved with conditions if the anticipated detrimental effects of the use, including the manner and
         design in which the property is proposed for development, can be mitigated with the imposition of
         reasonable conditions to bring about compliance with the standards outlined in Section 19.84.060; or
         3. Denied if the anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use cannot be mitigated with the
         imposition of reasonable conditions of approval to bring about compliance with the standards outlined
         in Section 19.84.060.

19.84.060 - Standards for approval.
Prior to approval, all conditional uses and accompanying site development plans must be found to conform to the
following standards:
A. The proposed site development plan shall comply with all applicable provisions of the zoning ordinance,
including parking, building setbacks, and building height.
B. The proposed use and site development plan shall comply with all other applicable laws and ordinances.
C. The proposed use and site development plan shall not present a serious traffic hazard due to poor site design
or to anticipated traffic increases on the nearby road system which exceed the amounts called for under the
county transportation master plan.
D. The proposed use and site development plan shall not pose a serious threat to the safety of persons who will
work on, reside on, or visit the property nor pose a serious threat to the safety of residents or properties in the
vicinity by failure to adequately address the following issues: fire safety, geologic hazards, soil or slope conditions,
liquifaction potential, site grading/topography, storm drainage/flood control, high ground water, environmental
health hazards, or wetlands.
E. The proposed use and site development plan shall not adversely impact properties in the vicinity of the site
through lack of compatibility with nearby buildings in terms of size, scale, height, or noncompliance with
community general plan standards.

19.84.100 - Revocation of conditional use permits.
A conditional use permit may be revoked by the planning commission upon a finding of failure to comply with
the terms and conditions of the original permit or for any violation of this title occurring on the site for which the
permit was approved. Prior to taking action concerning revocation of a conditional use permit, a hearing shall be
held by the planning commission. Notice of the hearing and the grounds for consideration of revocation shall be
mailed to the permittee at least ten days prior to the hearing.

19.84.110 - Hearing officer.
The planning commission may appoint, with the concurrence of the county mayor, a hearing officer or officers to
make recommendations to the planning commission as to whether cause exists for the planning commission to
consider revoking any conditional use permit. Prior to making any recommendation to the planning commission,
an evidentiary hearing shall be conducted by the hearing officer to determine whether the permittee has failed to
comply with the terms and conditions of the original permit or has otherwise violated any provision of the zoning
ordinance occurring on the site for which the permit was approved. The hearing officer shall notify the planning
commission if any violations have been corrected by the permittee prior to the issuance of the hearing officer's
recommendations.

Staff has reviewed the applicable ordinances and believes that the Planning Commission is within their right to
hold a hearing on the matter as the applicant is not fully in compliance with the specifically listed condition of

Conditional Use Summary                                                                                        Page 3 of 4
        Request: Modifications to Conditions of Approval                               File #: 24679

approval (see attached Conditional Use Permit letter). During such a hearing, the original conditions of approval
could be reviewed and changed or modified to reflect changing circumstances and to mitigate unforeseen
impacts that their imposition has caused. Staff believes that it is in the best interest of safety for all community
members that the condition of approval restricting drop of and pick up from 4520 West be removed as a
requirement. Staff further suggests that all other conditions of approval remain in effect.



                               PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff Recommends that the condition of approval restricting drop of and pick up from 4520 West be removed as a
requirement of the Conditional Use Permit, and that all other conditions of approval remain as currently
constituted.




Conditional Use Summary                                                                                       Page 4 of 4
                                     ATTACHMENT C.
                                     KEARNS PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT 08/10/2020




                                                  File # 24679

                                Conditional Use Change Conditions of Approval

Public Body: Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date: August 10, 2020
Parcel ID: 21-07-381-011-2000
Current Zone: R-1-6
Property Address: 4501 West 5215 South
Request: Temporary Change to the Conditional Use conditions allowing for student pick up and drop off along
4520 West, during the COVID-19 restriction period.
Applicant: St. Francis Xavier School (Marianne Rozsahegyi)

MSD Planner: Diana Martinez
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval with conditions
Salt Lake County Engineer: Madeline Francisco-Galang
Salt Lake County Engineering Staff Recommendation: Approval with conditions




                                             PROJECT DESCRIPTION

         On September 11, 2017, the applicant, St. Francis Xavier School, came before the Planning Commission
requesting the ability to change the conditions of their Conditional Use approval, to allow student drop off and
pick up along 4500 West. The Planning Commission did not accept this request and asked that the school
facilitate the drop off and pick up of the students by having “all school traffic…routed entirely through the
(school) parking lot”.
         The St. Francis Xavier School is asking the Planning Commission for a similar request to have the ability
to drop off and pick up the younger students (in preschool, kindergarten and first grade) along 4520 West, for a
temporary time during the COVID-19 pandemic period.
         The applicant would like for students to be able to enter the doors that connect directly to the
preschool-first grade classrooms, which are right off 4520 West, rather than have these students walk from the
school parking lot through the school building, where the older students have classrooms. This would limit the
exposure and access to most of the school and other children.
         The drop off time in the morning would be between 8:00 a.m. and 8:15 a.m. This drop off time would
involve 22 students. The pickup time in the afternoon would be between 2:50 p.m. and 3:10 p.m. This pick-up
time would involve 8 students.
        Request: Conditional Use Change Conditions of Approval                                 File #: 24679




                                SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)

The property is in an area of exclusively R-1-6 zoning with single family residential dwellings being the
predominate land use on all sides of the property. The only exception being a Baptist Church located across the
street from the northeast corner of the subject property.




                                                        R-1-6




                                  ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION

The main issue of concern in 2017 included:
         The traffic circulation both before and after school when children are being dropped off or picked up.
When the expansion to the school was approved in 2009 one of the conditions of that approval was that the
school would only allow drop off and pick up internal to the subject property and would eliminate the practice
of staging drop off and pick up on 4520 West. The school has attempted to comply with the specific condition to
not allow drop off and pick up on 4520 West and to route school traffic onto the school property. As a result,
traffic now backs up onto 5215 South creating a safety hazard along the arterial street.




                                         NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE

Property owners within 300’ of the School’s property have been noticed (103 property owners in total). No
responses have been received regarding this issue.




Conditional Use- Change of Approval                                                                   Page 2 of 5
        Request: Conditional Use Change Conditions of Approval                                     File #: 24679




                                        REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE

County Engineering is recommending the following:
       7/30/2020:       Recommending approval for the temporary drop off on 4520 West, in the A.M.
                           • Temporary drop off point
                           • 15 minutes drop off time between 8:00 a.m. to 8:15 a.m.
                           • Maximum of 22 students
                           • Only during COVID_19 restrictions
                        Recommending approval for the temporary drop off on 4520 West, in the P.M.
                           • Temporary drop off point
                           • 20 minutes of pickup time between 2:50 and 3:10 p.m.
                           • Only during COVID-19 restrictions.



                                           PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS

19.84.050 - Approval/denial authority.
The planning commission has the authority to approve, deny, or approve with conditions conditional use
applications.
A. Planning Commission Approval.
        1. The planning commission shall review and approve or deny each application during a public meeting.
        2. The planning commission's decision shall be based on information presented through the public
        meeting process, including: the materials submitted by the applicant, the recommendation of the
        director or director's designee, and input from interested parties and affected entities.
        3. If conditions are specified, the director or director's designee shall issue a final approval letter upon
        satisfaction of the planning commission's conditions of approval.
        4. If the applicant fails to meet all conditions of approval within twelve months of the planning
        commission's decision, the application is deemed denied. A twelve-month extension may be granted
        upon the payment of an additional filing fee equal to the original filing fee.
        5. A planning commission decision shall be made on a complete conditional use application within a
        reasonable time frame, not to exceed ninety days. The planning commission is authorized to review and
        take action on an application as outlined in Section 19.84.040 after having notified the applicant of the
        meeting date.
        6. Failure by the applicant to provide information that has been requested by the planning commission,
        the director or director's designee to resolve conflicts with the standards in Section 19.84.060(above)
        may result in an application being denied.
B. Decision. Each conditional use application shall be:
        1. Approved if the proposed use, including the manner and design in which a property is proposed for
        development, complies with the standards for approval outlined in Section 19.84.060; or
        2. Approved with conditions if the anticipated detrimental effects of the use, including the manner and
        design in which the property is proposed for development, can be mitigated with the imposition of
        reasonable conditions to bring about compliance with the standards outlined in Section 19.84.060; or
        3. Denied if the anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use cannot be mitigated with the
        imposition of reasonable conditions of approval to bring about compliance with the standards outlined
        in Section 19.84.060.




Conditional Use- Change of Approval                                                                       Page 3 of 5
        Request: Conditional Use Change Conditions of Approval                                     File #: 24679



19.84.060 - Standards for approval.
Prior to approval, all conditional uses and accompanying site development plans must be found to conform to
the following standards:
A. The proposed site development plan shall comply with all applicable provisions of the zoning ordinance,
including parking, building setbacks, and building height.
B. The proposed use and site development plan shall comply with all other applicable laws and ordinances.
C. The proposed use and site development plan shall not present a serious traffic hazard due to poor site design
or to anticipated traffic increases on the nearby road system which exceed the amounts called for under the
county transportation master plan.
D. The proposed use and site development plan shall not pose a serious threat to the safety of persons who will
work on, reside on, or visit the property nor pose a serious threat to the safety of residents or properties in the
vicinity by failure to adequately address the following issues: fire safety, geologic hazards, soil or slope
conditions, liquifaction potential, site grading/topography, storm drainage/flood control, high ground water,
environmental health hazards, or wetlands.
E. The proposed use and site development plan shall not adversely impact properties in the vicinity of the site
through lack of compatibility with nearby buildings in terms of size, scale, height, or noncompliance with
community general plan standards.

19.84.100 - Revocation of conditional use permits.
A conditional use permit may be revoked by the planning commission upon a finding of failure to comply with
the terms and conditions of the original permit or for any violation of this title occurring on the site for which
the permit was approved. Prior to taking action concerning revocation of a conditional use permit, a hearing
shall be held by the planning commission. Notice of the hearing and the grounds for consideration of revocation
shall be mailed to the permittee at least ten days prior to the hearing.

19.84.110 - Hearing officer.
The planning commission may appoint, with the concurrence of the county mayor, a hearing officer or officers
to make recommendations to the planning commission as to whether cause exists for the planning commission
to consider revoking any conditional use permit. Prior to making any recommendation to the planning
commission, an evidentiary hearing shall be conducted by the hearing officer to determine whether the
permittee has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the original permit or has otherwise violated
any provision of the zoning ordinance occurring on the site for which the permit was approved. The hearing
officer shall notify the planning commission if any violations have been corrected by the permittee prior to the
issuance of the hearing officer's recommendations.

Staff has reviewed the applicable ordinances and believes that the Planning Commission is within their right to
hold a hearing on the matter as the applicant is not fully in compliance with the specifically listed condition of
approval (see attached Conditional Use Permit letter). During such a hearing, the original conditions of approval
could be reviewed and changed or modified to reflect changing circumstances and to mitigate unforeseen
impacts that their imposition has caused. Staff believes that it is in the best interest of safety for all community
members that the condition of approval restricting drop of and pick up from 4520 West be removed as a
requirement. Staff further suggests that all other conditions of approval remain in effect.




Conditional Use- Change of Approval                                                                       Page 4 of 5
        Request: Conditional Use Change Conditions of Approval                                      File #: 24679

                                      PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION

The MSD Planning Staff recommends to the Kearns Township Planning Commission that the request to change
the conditions of approval to allow a temporary drop off and pick up from 4520 West be allowed, with all other
conditions of approval remaining as currently constituted, subject to the additional conditions being added:
            1. This is a temporary change of approval until November 20, 2020. On this day, Staff will
                determine if the restrictions of the COVID-19 Pandemic have been cleared or reduced.
                     a. If the pandemic restrictions have been cleared or reduced, then the school shall go back
                         to the original facilitation of using the parking lot as the main drop off and pick up area.
                     b. If the pandemic restriction have not been cleared or reduced, the MSD Staff will make
                         arrangements for the applicant to go back to the Planning Commission for the
                         December 14, 2020 meeting, to determine an appropriate extension time period for
                         drop off and pick up to continue along 4520 West.
            2. This temporary change of approval is for the drop off and pick up of approximately 22 children
                attending the school.
            3. The school will need to determine which cars (students) are allowed to be in the drop off and
                pick up area along 4520 West. A car sticker or name board that designates the appropriate
                student cars, may be helpful to show the faculty which cars should and should not be dropping
                off or picking up along 4520 West.




Conditional Use- Change of Approval                                                                        Page 5 of 5
                                        ATTACHMENT D.
                                        KEARNS PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT 12/14/2020




                                                     File # 24679

                                   Conditional Use Change Conditions of Approval
  Public Body: Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission
  Meeting Date: December 14, 2020
  Parcel ID: 21-07-381-011-2000
  Current Zone: R-1-6
  Property Address: 4501 West 5215 South
  Request: Extension of Temporary Change to the Conditional Use conditions allowing for student pick up and
  drop off along 4520 West, during the COVID-19 restriction period.
  Applicant: St. Francis Xavier School (Marianne Rozsahegyi)

  MSD Planner: Diana Martinez
  MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval with conditions
  Salt Lake County Engineer: Madeline Francisco-Galang
  Salt Lake County Engineering Staff Recommendation: Approval


                                           PROJECT DESCRIPTION HISTORY

         On September 11, 2017, the applicant, St. Francis Xavier School, came before the Planning Commission
  requesting the ability to change the conditions of their Conditional Use approval, to allow student drop off and
  pick up along 4500 West. The Planning Commission did not accept this request and asked that the school
  facilitate the drop off and pick up of the students by having “all school traffic…routed entirely through the
  (school) parking lot”.
         The St. Francis Xavier School is asking the Planning Commission for a similar request to have the ability to
  drop off and pick up the younger students (in preschool, kindergarten and first grade) along 4520 West, for a
  temporary time during the COVID-19 pandemic period.
         The applicant would like for students to be able to enter the doors that connect directly to the preschool-
  first grade classrooms, which are right off 4520 West, rather than have these students walk from the school
  parking lot through the school building, where the older students have classrooms. This would limit the
  exposure and access to most of the school and other children.
         The drop off time in the morning would be between 8:00 a.m. and 8:15 a.m. This drop off time would
  involve 22 students. The pickup time in the afternoon would be between 2:50 p.m. and 3:10 p.m. This pick-up
  time would involve 8 students.
         The approval for the temporary pick up and drop off on 4520 West, was given with a three month
monitoring time attached. On November 20th, the MSD Planning Staff assessed the pandemic restrictions
regarding COVID-19, and determined that it is fair to recommend that the pickup and drop off continue on 4520
West, to allow the younger grade children to go into the school at a separate entrance.


  Conditional Use- Change of Approval                                                                      Page 1 of 2
                                SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)

      The property is in an area of exclusively R-1-6 zoning with single family residential dwellings being the
predominate land use on all sides of the property. The only exception being a Baptist Church located across the
street from the northeast corner of the subject property.




                                                         R-1-6




                                          NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE

     Property owners within 300’ of the School’s property have been noticed (103 property owners in total). No
responses have been received regarding this issue.



                                      PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION

      The MSD Planning Staff recommends to the Kearns Township Planning Commission that the conditions
of approval be changed to allow a temporary drop off and pick up from 4520 West be extended until June 1,
2021, with all other conditions of approval remaining as currently constituted, and the additional conditions
to continue to be followed.
            1. This is an extension for the temporary change of approval until June 1, 2021. On this
                day, Staff will determine if the restrictions of the COVID-19 Pandemic have been
                cleared or reduced.
                     a. If the pandemic restrictions have been cleared or reduced, then the school shall go
                         back to the original facilitation of using the parking lot as the main drop off and pick
                         up area.
                     b. If the pandemic restriction have not been cleared or reduced, the MSD Staff will
                         make arrangements for the applicant to go back to the Planning Commission to
                         determine an appropriate extension time period for drop off and pick up to
                         continue along 4520 West.
            2. This temporary change of approval is for the drop off and pick up of approximately 22
                children attending the school.
            3. The school will need to determine which cars (students) are allowed to be in the drop off
                 and pick up area along 4520 West. A car sticker or name board that designates the
                 appropriate student cars, may be helpful to show the faculty which cars should and should
                 not be dropping off or picking up along 4520 West.


Conditional Use- Change of Approval                                                                     Page 2 of 2
                                      ATTACHMENT E.
                                      KEARNS PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT 08/09/2021




                                                  File # 24679

                                 Conditional Use Change Conditions of Approval
Public Body: Kearns Planning Commission
Meeting Date: August 9, 2021
Cityworks #: CUP2020-000096
Parcel ID: 21-07-381-011-2000
Current Zone: R-1-6
Property Address: 4501 West 5215 South
Request: Extension of Temporary Change to the Conditional Use conditions allowing for student pick up and
drop off along 4520 West, during the COVID-19 restriction period (Fall Term- until December 24, 2021)
Applicant: St. Francis Xavier School (Marianne Rozsahegyi)

MSD Planner: Diana Martinez
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval with conditions
Salt Lake County Engineer: Madeline Francisco-Galang
Salt Lake County Engineering Staff Recommendation: Approval


                                      PROJECT DESCRIPTION HISTORY
On September 11, 2017, the applicant, St. Francis Xavier School, came before the Planning Commission
requesting the ability to change the conditions of their Conditional Use approval, to allow student drop off and
pick up along 4500 West. The Planning Commission did not accept this request and asked that the school
facilitate the drop off and pick up of the students by having “all school traffic…routed entirely through the
(school) parking lot”.

The St. Francis Xavier School is asking the Planning Commission for a similar request to have the ability to drop
off and pick up the younger students (in preschool, kindergarten and first grade) along 4520 West, for a
temporary time during the COVID-19 pandemic period.

The applicant would like for students to be able to enter the doors that connect directly to the preschool-first
grade classrooms, which are right off 4520 West, rather than have these students walk from the school parking
lot through the school building, where the older students have classrooms. This would limit the exposure and
access to most of the school and other children.

The drop off time in the morning would be between 8:00 a.m. and 8:15 a.m. This proposal would involve 22
students. The pickup time in the afternoon would be between 2:50 p.m. and 3:10 p.m. This would include 8
students.


Conditional Use- Change of Approval                                                                      Page 1 of 2
The approval for the temporary pick up and drop off on 4520 West, was given with a three month monitoring
time attached. On November 20th, 2020, the MSD Planning Staff assessed the pandemic restrictions regarding
COVID-19, and determined that it was fair for the pickup and drop off continue on 4520 West, to allow the
younger grade children to go into the school at a separate entrance.

The applicant first made the request last year in August when the COVID restrictions were first implemented.
The request was given approval by the Planning Commission for the fall semester with the intent that Staff
would bring it back to the Planning Commission if more time was needed. The applicant came back to extend
the request through the rest of the school year. That request was given approval until June 1, 2021.




                                SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)

      The property is in an area of exclusively R-1-6 zoning with single family residential dwellings being the
predominate land use on all sides of the property. The only exception being a Baptist Church located across the
street from the northeast corner of the subject property.




                                                        R-1-6




                                      NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE

     Property owners within 300’ of the School’s property have been noticed (103 property owners in total). No
responses have been received regarding this issue.




Conditional Use- Change of Approval                                                                   Page 2 of 2
                                      PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
      The MSD Planning Staff recommends to the Kearns Township Planning Commission that the conditions of
approval be changed to allow a temporary drop off and pick up from 4520 West be extended until December
24, 2021, with all other conditions of approval remaining as currently constituted, and the additional
conditions to continue to be followed.
            1. This is an extension for the temporary change of approval until December 24, 2021.
                Staff will determine if the restrictions of the COVID-19 Pandemic have been cleared or
                reduced.
                     a. If the pandemic restrictions have been cleared or reduced, the school shall go back to
                         the original facilitation of using the parking lot as the main drop off and pick up area.
                     b. If the pandemic restriction have not been cleared or reduced, the MSD Staff will make
                         arrangements for the applicant to go back to the Planning Commission to determine
                         an appropriate extension time period for drop off and pick up to continue along 4520
                         West.
            2. This temporary change of approval is for the drop off and pick up of approximately 22 children
                attending the school.
            3. The school will need to determine which cars (students) are allowed to be in the drop off and
                pick up area along 4520 West. A car sticker or name board that designates the appropriate
                student cars, may be helpful to show the faculty which cars should and should not be dropping
                off or picking up along 4520 West.




Conditional Use- Change of Approval                                                                      Page 3 of 2
ATTACHMENT F.
ORIGINAL CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT 11/30/2009
                                       Planning and Development Services
                                       2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                       Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                       msd.utah.gov




                                       Case# RWD2021-000495


      Roadway Dedication Summary and Recommendation

 Public Body           Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission
 Parcel ID             N/A (W 4715 South Street)

 Property Address      W 4715 South Street, KEARNS, 84118
                       (from Arlington Park Drive east to approximately 4100 West)
                       Salt Lake County requests dedication of portions of W 4715 South Street to
 Request
                       Kearns Metro Township

 Applicant             Salt Lake County; Shane Ellis (Representative, Salt Lake County Engineering &
                       Flood Control)
 Meeting Date          January 10, 2022
 Current Zone          N/A
 MSD Planner           Molly Gaughran
 Recommendation        Planning Commission recommend Approval to the Kearns Council



                               PROJECT DESCRIPTION (see attachments)
Salt Lake County requests a plat approval for the dedication of portions of W 4715 South Street to Kearns Metro
Township for public right-of-way. This portion of the roadway is located within Kearns Metro Township boundaries
and the dedication of this portion is necessary for the reconstrustruction of W 4715 South Street.


                       SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see map and attached plat)
The proposed dedication is along W 4715 South, adjacent to West Valley City’s municipal boundary and Welcker
Memorial Park. The proposed dedication begins at Arlington Park Drive and ends at approximately 4100 West.
Properties in the surrounding area are primarily zoned R-1-6 (Single-Family Residential), with limited commercial
properties, medium-density residential properties, and a church.
        Request: Road Dedication                                       File #: RWD2021-000495




Location of roadway proposed to be dedicated.



                        ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
No issues of concern have been identified for this application.



                                 REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE
The Road Dedication Plat has been reviewed by MSD Planning Staff and Kearns Metro Township Attorney with
no comments or issues to report.


                                           PROCESS ANALYSIS
18.12.030 Preliminary Plat Approval Or Disapproval

    A. The planning commission shall review a preliminary plat and any related planning staff recommendations
       before making a recommendation to the council to approve, deny, or modify the preliminary plat. The
       planning commission shall not consider a preliminary plat at a meeting if the preliminary plat and the
       information required under section 18.12.010 were not submitted at least 30 days prior to the date of the
       meeting.
    B. The council will obtain the preliminary plat, the planning staff’s report, and the planning commission’s
       recommendations from the planning staff before acting on the preliminary plat. If the preliminary plat is
       approved, the director or director's designee shall sign the plat along with a clear notation substantially
       in the following form: “Preliminary Plat – Subject to Final Approval per Kearns Metro Township Code
       Section 18.08.010(E).” One copy of the preliminary plat shall be provided to the sub-divider. One signed
       copy shall be retained by the planning and development services division, and one copy of the approved
       plat shall be returned to the developer's engineer. If the preliminary plat is disapproved, the director or
       director's designee shall notify the developer in writing and give reasons for such disapproval. The receipt
       of a signed copy of the approved preliminary plat shall be authorization for the sub-divider to proceed with
       the preparation of specifications for the minimum improvements required in Chapter 18.24 of this title and
       with the preparation of the final plat.

         (Ord. 1626 § 7 (part), 2008: Ord. 1473 (part), 2001: Ord. 1222 § 4, 1993: Ord. 950 § 2, 1986: Ord. 879
         (part), 1983: prior code § 19-3-3)

Road Dedication                                                                                         Page 2 of 4
        Request: Road Dedication                                          File #: RWD2021-000495

         HISTORY
         Adopted by Ord. 20-07-01 on 7/13/2020


18.16.010 Required Information

The final plat, which must be prepared by a licensed land surveyor not in the employ of the Kearns Metro Township
on a sheet of approved reproducible Mylar and made with approved waterproof black india drawing ink, with text
not less than one-tenth inch in size, shall be so drawn that the top of the sheet faces either north or east, whichever
accommodates the drawing best, shall contain all information required on the preliminary plat (except contours),
and shall comply with the following:
  A. Description and Delineation. The final plat shall show:
         1. The approved name of the subdivision;
         2. Accurate angular and lineal dimensions for all lines, angles and curves used to describe boundaries,
           streets, alleys, easements, areas to be reserved for public use and other important features. Boundary
           lines shall be drawn heavier than street and lot lines;
         3. An identification system for all lots and blocks and names of streets. Lot lines shall show dimensions in
           feet and hundredths;
         4. Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings and length of all arcs;
         5. The accurate location of all monuments and fire hydrants to be installed shown by the appropriate
           symbol. All applicable United States, state, county, Kearns Metro Township or other official benchmarks,
           monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property, shall be preserved in precise position;
         6. The dedication to the Kearns Metro Township of all streets and highways included in proposed
           subdivisions. Subdivision monuments shall be installed prior to the improvement bond release by the sub-
           divider's engineer or land surveyor at such points designated on the final plat as approved by the
           planning and development services division. Kearns Metro Township standard precast monuments, rings
           and lids shall be furnished by the municipal surveyor and shall be purchased by the sub-divider at the
           prices indicated in the municipal surveyor's adopted fee schedule;
         7. Physical markers shall be placed at each lot corner in accordance with state statutes;
         8. Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be dedicated or reserved for public use, with
           the purposes indicated thereon, and of any area to be reserved by deed or covenant for common uses of
           all property owners;
         9. Where it is proposed that streets be constructed on property controlled by a public agent or utility
           company, approval for the location, improvement and maintenance of such streets shall be obtained from
           the public agency or utility company and entered on the final plat in a form approved by the attorney.
  B. Standard Forms for the Following. The final plat shall require:
         1. A registered land surveyor's certificate of survey;
         2. The owner's certificate of dedication;
         3. A notary public's acknowledgement;
         4. The council’s certificate of approval;
         5. The health department's certificate of approval;
         6. The planning and development services division's certificate of approval;
         7. The attorney's certificate of approval;
         8. The mayor's certificate of approval;
         9. A one and one-half by five-inch space in the lower right-hand corner of the drawing for the county
           recorder's use.
(Ord. 1626 § 8, 2008; Ord. 1479 § 2, 2001: Ord. 1473 (part), 2001: Ord. 879 (part), 1983; prior code § 19-4-1)
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 20-07-01 on 7/13/2020




Road Dedication                                                                                             Page 3 of 4
        Request: Road Dedication                              File #: RWD2021-000495


                           PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
The MSD Planning Staff recommends that the Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission recommend plat
approval for the road dedication located at W 4715 South.




Road Dedication                                                                            Page 4 of 4
