                                                   Planning and Development Services
                                                   2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                   Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                                   https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/




                                     Kearns Planning Commission
                                                       Public Meeting Agenda

                        Monday, September 12, 2022 5:30 P.M.
Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-207(5), Joe Hatch has determined in his capacity as Chair of the Kearns Planning Commission that this
meeting and/or public hearing will be held electronically without an anchor location given the ongoing Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)
pandemic, which the Chair has determined to present a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at an anchor location.
To participate in the meeting and to make public comments where indicated in the agenda, please use the below webinar instructions.
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
https://slco.webex.com/meet/wgurr
Join meeting in WebEx (download available at https://www.webex.com/downloads.html for Windows,
Android, and Apple devices)
Tap to join from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065,,961841420## United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783,,961841420## United States Toll (Phoenix)
Join by phone
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and MSD staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                                      BUSINESS MEETING

     1) Welcome and approval of the agenda. (Motion/Voting)
     2) Approval of the August 8, 2022 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.
        (Motion/Voting)
     3) Discussion of Short-Term Rental Considerations - Planning staff will give a short
        presentation on short term rentals (STRs), including the benefits and costs to communities,
        and methods for regulating STRs. Following the presentation, the Commission may discuss
        its initial thoughts on STRs and give opinions about how the units could be addressed

September 12, 2022                                               Page 1 of 2                                             AGENDA – KEARNS
      through ordinance. Planner: Kayla Mauldin
   4) Other Business Items. (As Needed)

                                LAND USE APPLICATION(S)

CUP2022-000615 - Fatimatou Maiga is requesting conditional use approval for a home daycare
for eight children. Location: 6011 South Walnut View Drive. Zone: R-1-7 (Single-Family
Residential). Planner: Morgan Julian (Motion/Voting)

                                    PUBLIC HEARING(S)

Public Hearing to review the amendments to the Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan, a
supplemental document to the Kearns General Plan. These amendments are per new state
legislation that was signed into law on March 4, 2022. The legislation became effective on June 1,
2022. The Moderate-Income Housing Plan is required to be updated by October 1, 2022, in order
to be in compliance with new laws. Planner: Kayla Mauldin (Motion/Voting)

                                          ADJOURN




September 12, 2022                          Page 2 of 2                          AGENDA – KEARNS
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



September 12, 2022                                    Page 1 of 1                                   AGENDA – KEARNS
This page intentionally left blank
                                                      Planning and Development Services
                                                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




**Notice of this meeting posted July 28, 2022 to https://www.utah.gov/pmn/sitemap/notice/771623.html and notices
                                               mailed July 28, 2022**


                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                                 KEARNS PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                    Monday, August 8, 2022 5:30 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 40 minutes                             *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 6                                         found on the State and County websites, or from Planning
                                                                          & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Hatch

                                                  ATTENDANCE
                                Public     Business                                                            Public      Business
        Commissioners                                    Absent                Planning Staff / DA
                                 Mtg         Mtg                                                                Mtg          Mtg
    David Taylor (Vice Chair)     x           x
           Joy Nelson                                      x                       Wendy Gurr                     x            x
       Joe Hatch (Chair)          x           x                                    Brian Tucker                   x            x
         Laura Koester            x           x                                 Curtis Woodward                   x            x
                                                                                  Morgan Julian                   x            x
                                                                                   Justin Smith                   x            x
                                                                                  Kayla Mauldin                   x            x
                                                                                 Nathan Bracken                   x            x


                                                  BUSINESS MEETING

                                              Meeting began at – 5:30 p.m.
    1) Welcome and Approval of the Agenda. (Motion/Voting)

        Commissioner Hatch read the Chairs Opening Statement.

    2) Approval of the April 11, 2022 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (motion/Voting)
       Motion: To Approve the April 11, 2022 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes as presented.
             Motion by: Commissioner Taylor
             2nd by: Commissioner Koester
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

    3) Discussion on Potential ordinance changes to better facilitate Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU’s)
       in existing accessory buildings. Location: Kearns entirety. Planners: Morgan Julian and Brian
       Tucker

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planning and Development Planner Morgan Julian and
Planning Manager Brian Tucker provided an analysis of potential changes.

Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – August 8, 2022 – Meeting Summary                                            Page 1 of 4
Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding setbacks.

Motion: To recommend potential ordinance changes to better facilitate Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU’s)
in existing accessory buildings to the Kearns Metro Township Council.
        Motion by: Commissioner Taylor
        2nd by: Commissioner Koester
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

    4) Other Business Items (as needed)

Commissioner Taylor said he spoke with the Mayor regarding Planning Commissioner shirts for meetings
and will reach out to the commissioners for size, color, and design.


                                           PUBLIC HEARING(S)
                                       Hearings began at – 6:07 p.m.
REZ2022-000621 - Jody Jones is requesting an amendment to the General Plan Future Land Uses and
Character Areas from the “Existing Commercial Character Area” to the “Medium to High Density
Character Area”. This reclassification would match the existing R-M zoning and allow for a density of 20
units per acre. Acres: 3.13. Location: 5000 West 5035 South. Zone: R-M. Planner: Justin Smith
(Motion/Voting)

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planning and Development Planner Justin Smith provided
an analysis of the staff report.

Commissioners, staff, and counsel had a brief discussion regarding codes and density, residential
development in a commercial zone, commercial needs to be on the first floor, recommendation to policy
change, traffic, and vacancies.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Kearns Community Council
Name: Roger Snow
Address: 5977 South Parkwood Drive
Comments: Mr. Snow said Kearns Community Council gives an unfavorable recommendation to
amending the general plan. More in line when the codification of the code is complete. Bring back when
discussion of actual use for that area.

Speaker # 2: Applicant
Name: Jody Jones
Address: Not provided
Comments: Ms. Jones said city growing and experiencing multi-family and growth and affordable housing.
All struggling with traffic issues. Daycare is closing, commercial area is there and doesn’t make sense.
Trying to create more affordable housing in Kearns.

Commissioner Taylor motioned to open the public hearing, Commissioner Koester seconded that motion.



Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – August 8, 2022 – Meeting Summary                 Page 2 of 4
Speaker # 3: Owner
Name: Cesar Lopez
Address: Not provided
Comments: Mr. Lopez said one of the owners closing daycare. No visibility for commercial.

Commissioner Taylor motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Koester seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Commissioners had a brief discussion regarding high density, mixed use, and leaning towards Moderate
Income Housing.

Motion: To recommend not addressing the change in the general plan and discrepancy addressed through
recodification and zoning process with only mixed use and MIH on file #REZ2022-000621 Jody Jones
request an amendment to the General Plan Future Land Uses and Character Areas from the “Existing
Commercial Character Area” to the “Medium to High Density Character Area”. This reclassification would
match the existing R-M zoning and allow for a density of 20 units per acre to the Kearns Metro Township
Council.
        Motion by: Commissioner Taylor
        2nd by: Commissioner Koester
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


                                      LAND USE APPLICATION(S)

PER2022-000625 - Robert Vaccaro is requesting an exception be made for sidewalk improvements. Zone:
M-1 (Manufacturing). Location: 4748 South Cable Ridge Road. Planner: Morgan Julian (Motion/Voting)

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planning and Development Planner Morgan Julian provided
an analysis of the staff report.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Kearns Community Council
Name: Roger Snow
Address: 5977 South Parkwood Drive
Comments: Mr. Snow said there was not a recommendation for or against. Was not taken through the
community council.

Speaker # 2: Applicant
Name: Robert Vaccaro
Address: Not provided
Comments: Mr. Vaccaro said proposing new development in the corner and leasing 37X55 foot area. New
development requires a sidewalk placed and requesting an exception to the code due to the area and only
taking up a small part of the front of the area. No public in the industrialized area. Unmanned shelter,
infrequently visited by technicians for google fiber equipment.

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding Camp Kearns Plat dedication, more appropriate
time to add curb, gutter, and sidewalk when a bigger development comes in, discrepancy between build and
fix, ADA requirements and public access.


Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – August 8, 2022 – Meeting Summary                 Page 3 of 4
                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Motion: To approve application #PER2022-000625 Robert Vaccaro request for an exception be made for
sidewalk improvements are currently not necessary to serve the public and granting the exception will not
jeopardize the health, safety and welfare of the public.
       Motion by: Commissioner Taylor
       2nd by: Commissioner Koester
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


Commissioner Taylor motioned to adjourn, Commissioner Koester seconded that motion.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 7:10 p.m.




Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – August 8, 2022 – Meeting Summary                  Page 4 of 4
                                                 Municipal Service District Planning and Development Services
                                                 2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                 Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                                 msd.utah.gov


                                             File # CUP2022-000615


                                             Home Daycare
Public Body: Kearns Planning Commission
Meeting Date: 09/12/2022
Parcel ID: 20-14-479-039-0000
Current Zone: R-1-7
Property Address: 6011 S WALNUT VIEW DR, KEARNS, 84118
Request: Home Daycare
Applicant Name: Fatimatou Maiga

MSD Planner: Morgan Julian
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval with Conditions


                                           PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Fatimatou Maiga, the applicant, is requesting conditional use approval for a home daycare for eight children.


                                      SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION
This property is located at 6011 S Walnut View Dr, Kearns in an R-1-7 (Single-family Residential) zone. The
surrounding properties are also zoned R-1-7.




                          ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
The MSD Staff has noted that the ingress and egress standards of a type 1 daycare with 8 children will require a
larger window well in the basement napping room than that is currently installed in the residence (see
Attachment 1). This window well must be modified before final approval, or the applicant may choose not to use

 Home Daycare                                                                                                 Page 1 of 4
the basement for the use of their daycare.

                                         PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
Home Daycare Standards and Findings
Kearns Zoning Code Section 19.14.030 states that “Home Day Care/Preschool" is allowed with Conditional Use
approval in all Residential (R-1) zones, subject to Section 19.04.293. Therefore, the proposed home daycare may be
considered through this conditional use review process. The standards under Section 19.04.293 are addressed
immediately below.

19.04.293 Home Day Care/preschool
"Home day care/preschool" means the keeping for care and/or preschool instruction of twelve or less children
including the caregiver's own children under the age of six and not yet in full day school within an occupied
dwelling and yard. (State regulations require two caregivers if there are more than six children in a home day care
and may further limit the number of children allowed in a home day care.) A home day care/preschool must meet
the following standards:

Standard A. When allowed as a permitted use there shall be a maximum of six children without any employees not
residing in the dwelling. When allowed as a conditional use there shall be a maximum of twelve children with not
more than one employee at any one time not residing in the dwelling.

Finding. The proposal is for a home daycare for up to a maximum of 12 children. Based on the information provided
by the applicant and as included in the MSD staff’s recommended conditions of approval, no more than one
employee shall reside outside of the home used for the home daycare.

Standard B. The use shall comply with the health department noise regulations.

Finding. Compliance with the health department noise regulations is included in the MSD staff’s recommended
conditions of approval.

Standard C. The play yard shall not be located in the front yard and shall only be used between eight a.m. and nine
p.m.

Finding. Per MSD staff’s recommended conditions of approval, play shall not occur in the front yard and shall be
limited to the designated hours.

Standard D. The lot shall contain one available on-site parking space not required for use of the dwelling, and an
additional available on-site parking space not required for use of the dwelling for any employee not residing
in the dwelling. The location of the parking shall be approved by the development services division director
to ensure that the parking is functional and does not change the residential character of the lot.

Finding. The subject property has parking for at least three (3) vehicles, plus an additional area of the driveway
available for drop off and pick up, complying with home daycare parking standard.

Standard E. No signs shall be allowed on the dwelling or lot except a nameplate sign.

Finding. Per MSD staff’s recommended conditions of approval, signage for the daycare is limited to one (1) nameplate
sign attached to the house that does not exceed three square feet (3 ft2).

Standard F. The use shall comply with all local, state, and federal laws and regulations (the Life Safety Code
includes additional requirements if there are more than six children).


 Home Daycare                                                                                                    Page 2 of 4
Finding. Review of the application has found no conflict with local, state, and federal laws and regulations. MSD staff’s
recommended conditions of approval include compliance with such code, laws, and regulations.

Standard G. Upon complaint that any of the requirements of this section or any other county ordinance are
being violated by a home day care/preschool caregiver, the county shall review the complaint and if
substantiated may institute a license revocation proceeding under Section 5.14.020.

Finding. The license revocation process in the case of a substantiated complaint is included in MSD Staff’s
recommended conditions of approval.

Standard H. The caregiver shall notify in writing, on a form provided by the development services division, all
property owners within a three-hundred-foot radius of the caregiver's property concerning the licensing of a
home day care/preschool at such property.

Finding. Per MSD Staff’s recommended conditions of approval, such noticing shall be verified by MSD Planning Staff
prior to final approval.

Conditional Use Standards and Finding 19.84.060

Standard A. The proposed site development plan shall comply with all applicable provisions of the zoning
ordinance, including parking, building setbacks, and building height.

Finding. No changes to structures on the property or to the site plan of the property are proposed or required to meet
this standard; therefore, this criterion does not apply.

Standard B. The proposed use and site development plan shall comply with all other applicable laws and ordinances.

Finding. Review of the application has found no conflict with local, state, and federal laws and regulations. MSD staff’s
recommended conditions of approval include compliance with such code, laws, and regulations.

Standard C. The proposed use and site development plan shall not present a serious traffic hazard due to poor site
design or to anticipated traffic increases on the nearby road system which exceed the amounts called for under the
county transportation master plan.

Finding. The proposed home daycare use is a low-intensity land use that is compatible to operate out of existing
dwellings within residential neighborhoods. As such, the proposed use does not present a serious traffic hazard or
increase traffic on the nearby road system which exceeds the amounts called for under the county transportation
master plan.

Standard D. The proposed use and site development plan shall not pose a serious threat to the safety of
persons who will work on, reside on, or visit the property nor pose a serious threat to the safety of residents or
properties in the vicinity by failure to adequately address the following issues: fire safety, geologic hazards,
soil or slope conditions, liquefaction potential, site grading/topography, storm drainage/flood control, high
groundwater, environmental health hazards, or wetlands.

Finding. The proposal does not include new development because the home daycare will operate out of an existing
dwelling within an existing residential neighborhood. The reviewing agencies for home daycares/preschools include
the MSD Building department and Unified Fire Authority. These agencies have reviewed the application and have
given approval for the use with conditions that are standard for home daycares, including a required building
inspection at the time of business licensing. Therefore, the proposed home daycare use does not pose a threat to the
safety of persons who reside in or visit the dwelling, or residents in the vicinity of the property.


 Home Daycare                                                                                                  Page 3 of 4
Standard E. The proposed use and site development plan shall not adversely impact properties in the vicinity
of the site through lack of compatibility with nearby buildings in terms of size, scale, height, or noncompliance
with community general plan standards.

Finding. No changes to structures on the property or to the site plan of the property are proposed at this time. With
MSD staff’s recommended conditions of approval, the proposed use of home daycare is found to comply with the
standards for conditional uses and impacts on the neighborhood to be appropriately mitigated.


                                 PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Based on the findings in this report, planning staff recommends that the Salt Lake County Planning
Commission approve the Conditional Use application for a Home Daycare, subject to the following conditions:

      1. The applicant shall obtain a “Family Child Care License” from Utah State, Child Care Licensing
          Division.
      2. The applicant shall obtain a business license with the Municipal Services District.
      3. The use shall comply with all local, State, and Federal laws and regulations, including the Life Safety
          Code.
      4. The use shall comply with Salt Lake Valley Health Department noise regulations.
      5. The play yard area shall not be in the front yard.
      6. The play yard area shall be enclosed with a fence and only used between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
      7. No on-street parking is allowed for or because of the use. One on-site parking space must be kept
          available for drop-off and pick-up, not including any required employee parking. The parking space
          shall not change the residential character of the lot.
      8. The applicant shall comply with all Fire Department regulations including:
              a. A Smoke Detector
              b. A 2A10BC fire extinguisher
              c. All electrical outlets must be covered
              d. A Telephone
              e. A Whistle or bell (for fire drills)
              f. No double locks on doors
              g. No children permitted on a second story
              h. Two exits are required from the facility, 50 percent diagonal from each other
              i. Children are permitted in basements only if there is an exit directly to the outside, with
                   vertical travel not exceeding eight feet.
      9. A three-square-foot (3 ft2) name-plate sign is allowed. It must be attached to the house.
      10. The applicant shall notify in writing all property owners within a three-hundred-foot radius of the
          proposed home daycare of the applicant’s licensing at the subject property. The applicant may pay
          fees for the Municipal Services District to send out written notices or send out the notice on a form
          provided by the planning and development services division.
      11. Upon complaint that any of the requirements of this ordinance or any other county ordinance is
          being violated by a home daycare/pre-school caregiver, MSD staff shall review the complaint and if
          substantiated, may institute a license revocation procedure.


Attachments:
    1. Floor Plan
    2. Site Plan




 Home Daycare                                                                                                 Page 4 of 4
    Homa Fire and Emerqen cy Itan
                                                                                                  sf FLoor           =




                                                                                                  E=         =    ===        =i

          Basement #
                                    exit
                                                                                                  Tarane
                                                                                                  Will not be used for daycare
    Will not be used for daycare    horizontal slider


    Bathoom                                                    Faurna
                                                                  room
                                                                                                 WC Loundr
    closet                                                      eLoset
                                                                                                  Will be used for Daycare


                                                                                                 Living room
     badroom                                     adroom
     Will not be used for daycare                 Napping Room
                                                 Will be used for Daycare

                                                        Horizontal Slider                         Door   3 different windows connecting.
                                                            Napping Room Window: 4ftx4ft                 Outside windows are vertical sliders
                                                            Window Well 29 inches by 65 inches           Middle window is a Horizontal slider
    Around 8 Children, ages 3 - 12.
    Yellow lines indicate windows and patio door
    Red Circles indicate smoke detectors
                                                                                                                      Will not be using 3rd
                      Loor                                                                                            floor for daycare
                                   Patio Door &
                                   Hotizontal Slider                                             FLoor
                   Will be used for Daycare                                                                        CLost Closet
                      Napping room



                       LUngoom
:
                                                                                      adroom                         Sadrodm
                     Will be used for Daycare

     Dining Room Window
     3 different windows connecting.
                                               Kitchen
     Outside windows are vertical sliders
     Middle window is a Horizontal slider


Diningroom                                              Horizontal Slider          bathroom
  STAFF REPORT: DRAFT 2022 MODERATE INCOME HOUSING PLAN AMENDMENTS FOR
                                  KEARNS

PUBLIC BODY: Kearns Planning Commission

LOCATION: All areas within Kearns Metro Township

PLANNERS: Kayla Mauldin, Senior Long Range Planner (KMauldin@msd.utah.gov); Bianca
Paulino, Long Range Planning Intern (BiPaulino@msd.utah.gov)

MEETING DATE: September 12th, 2022

REQUEST: Recommend adoption of the 2022 Moderate Income Housing Plan Amendments as
drafted, or with revisions as needed following the public hearing.

                                           SUMMARY

During the legislative session this year, the State approved HB 462, which made updates to SB34
(2019). HB 462 Housing Affordability Amendments made significant changes to the process and
requirements for community moderate-income housing plans regarding both implementation
and annual reporting on how the community fulfills its housing plan goals. The legislative changes
necessitate an amendment to the Kearns Moderate Income Housing, which was initially adopted
in 2019.

As a part of the amendment process, MSD Planning Staff updated demographic and housing data,
reviewed and made minor changes to Kearns’ selected Moderate Income Housing strategies
(based on public engagement and input from the legal team), and added an implementation plan
for the selected strategies.

The public hearing for the drafted 2022 Moderate Income Housing Plan Amendment, which
replaces the 2019 Plan, will be held at the Planning Commission meeting on September 12th.
Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission may give a recommendation to the Kearns
Council. The Council may choose to adopt the Plan Amendment at their next meeting following
the recommendation from the Commission. The amended 2022 Moderate Income Housing Plan
must be adopted by October 1st, 2022, to comply with State Code.

                          EXHIBITS (Located at end of staff report)

   1. 2022 Draft Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan Amendment
   2. HB 462
   3. Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan (adopted in 2019)


               Overview of MIH Legislative Changes and 2022 Drafted Plan Amendments | Page 1 of 12
           LEGISLATIVE CHANGES RELATED TO MODERATE INCOME HOUSING

The Utah League of Cities and Towns (ULCT) and the Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC),
with many other partners, were involved in drafting HB 462. During the session, there were four
main bill goals (from ULCT).

   1. To meet the needs of people of various income levels living, working, or desiring to live or
      work in Utah communities.
   2. To allow people with various incomes to benefit from and fully participate in all aspects of
      neighborhood and community life.
   3. To determine how the jurisdiction will provide a realistic opportunity to meet the need for
      additional moderate income housing within the next five years.
   4. To tie State project and grant funding with communities’ demonstrated compliance with
      the moderate income housing requirements.
The State Code changes described on the following pages became effective on June 1, 2022 and
will need to be completed by October 1, 2022.

While not all the changes in the legislation impact Kearns, the changes made in HB 462 can be
broken down into the following sections:

   1. Moderate Income Housing Plan Changes -discussed in detail below.
   2. Station Area Plan Requirements – These changes impact communities that have or plan
      to have station areas with a fixed rail or BRT (Bus Rapid Transit). This does not currently
      apply to Kearns.
   3. Changes to Internal Accessory Dwelling Units – Prohibits local governments from
      charging impact fees to IADUs constructed within an existing dwelling.
   4. Changes to the Point of the Mountain – Applies to changes at the Point of the Mountain
      area. These changes do not apply to Kearns.
   5. Changes to the Olene Walker Board – Modifies the Olene Walker Housing Board
      provisions. This does not apply to Kearns.
   6. Other Changes and Appropriations – Other changes include rural housing funds,
      housing affordability data and methodology, public transit hubs, and appropriations.
Moderate Income Housing Plan Changes

The following changes most significantly impact Kearns. The changes outlined in this section
necessitated amendments to the Kearns Moderate income Housing Plan which have been
incorporated in the drafted Plan Amendments.




               Overview of MIH Legislative Changes and 2022 Drafted Plan Amendments | Page 2 of 12
Change #1: The menu items provided in the bill have been altered and expanded; 24
options are now available for communities. The new options are as follows:

24 Strategy options (2)(b)(iii) (line 679):

    A. “Rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the production of moderate-income
       housing.
    B. Demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation or expansion of infrastructure that
       facilitates the construction of moderate income housing.
    C. Demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation of existing uninhabitable housing
       stock into moderate income housing.
    D. Identify and utilize municipal general fund subsidies or other sources of revenue
       to waive construction related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the
       municipality for the construction or rehabilitation of moderate income housing.
    E. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached
       accessory dwelling units in residential zones.
    F. Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in
       commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors,
       commercial centers, or employment centers.
    G. Amend land use regulations to allow for higher density or new moderate income
       residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit
       investment corridors.
    H. Amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking requirements for
       residential development where a resident is less likely to rely on the resident’s own
       vehicle, such as a residential development near major transit investment corridors
       or senior living facilities.
    I.   Amend land use regulations to allow for single room occupancy developments.
    J.   Implement zoning incentives for moderate income housing units in new
         developments.
    K. Preserve existing and new moderate income housing and subsidized units by
       utilizing a landlord incentive program, providing for deed restricted units through
       a grant program, or establishing a housing loss mitigation fund.
    L. Reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate income housing.
    M. Demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community land trust program for
       moderate income housing.




         Overview of MIH Legislative Changes and 2022 Drafted Plan Amendments | Page 3 of 12
N. Implement a mortgage assistance program for employees of the municipality, an
   employer that provides contracted services for the municipality, or any other public
   employer that operates within the municipality.
O. Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax
   incentives to promote the construction of moderate income housing, an entity that
   applies for programs offered by Utah Housing Corporation within that agency’s
   funding capacity, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs
   administered by the Department of Workforce Services, an entity that applies for
   affordable housing programs administered by an association of governments
   established by an interlocal agreement under Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal
   Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services provided by a public housing
   authority to preserve and create moderate income housing, or any other entity that
   applies for programs or services that promote the construction or preservation of
   moderate income housing.
P. Demonstrate utilization of a moderate income housing set aside from a community
   reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and
   renewal agency to create or subsidize moderate income housing.
Q. Create a housing and transit reinvestment zone pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 3,
   Part 6, Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act.
R. Eliminate impact fees for any accessory dwelling unit that is not an internal
   accessory dwelling unit as defined in Section 10-9a-530.
S. Create a Program to transfer development rights for moderate income housing.
T. Ratify a joint acquisition agreement with another local political subdivision for the
   purpose of combining resources to acquire property for moderate income housing.
U. Develop a moderate income housing project for residents who are disabled or 55
   years old or older.
V. Develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with Section 10-9a-403.1.
W. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multi-family residential
   dwellings compatible in scale and form with detached single-family residential
   dwellings and located in walkable communities within residential or mixed-use
   zones.
X. Demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy to address the
   housing needs of residents of the municipality who earn less than 80% of the area
   median income, including the dedication of a local funding source to moderate
   income housing or the adoption of a land use ordinance that requires 10% or more
   of new residential development in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate
   income housing.”

    Overview of MIH Legislative Changes and 2022 Drafted Plan Amendments | Page 4 of 12
Change #2: Kearns must provide an implementation element as part of their
moderate income housing plan.

There are no explicit details about what this implementation plan looks like, but at a
minimum, the implementation plan must include a timeline to implement the required
strategies. If the strategies include adopting new legislation, it would be anticipated that
the implementation plan will describe the estimated time of adoption and other
milestones as are necessary for adoption.

Change #3: Annual reporting requirements have been modified and the timeline has
been adjusted.

Instead of delivering reports to the State’s Department of Workforce Services on
December 1st of every year, reports are now due on October 1st. In addition, the reporting
period is now tied to Kearns’ fiscal year. The first reporting year for 2022 must include the
updated MIH plan with the implementation plan and new strategy choices. Subsequent
reporting years must include Kearns’ MIH plan, description of each action and
implementation, description of land use regulations adopted, description of barriers
encountered, description of how the private sector and market have responded, and
information regarding IADUs in Kearns, as well as recommendations to the State about
implementation.

Change #4: Prioritization and penalties have been changed.

Priority Consideration: If Kearns adopts five (5) strategies rather than the minimum
requirement of three (3) strategies and the Department of Workforce Services (DWS)
determines Kearns is making efforts to implement each of the strategies, then Kearns may
receive priority consideration for funding pools such as the Transportation Investment
Fund (TIF), Transit Transportation Investment Fund (TTIF), and the COVID-19 local
assistance matching grant. If Kearns does not select five (5) strategies, the community will
still be able to apply for funding from these programs but will not be given priority status.

Penalties: If Kearns is found to be in violation of the minimum requirements of HB 462,
notice will be sent to the municipality, UDOT, and the Governor’s Office of Planning and
Budget (GOPB), and Kearns will not be eligible for any funding from TIF, TTIF, or COVID-
19 local assistance matching grants. Once the notice has been delivered to the required
agencies, the legislative body of Kearns (the Council) has ninety (90) days from the day the
notice is sent to cure identified deficiencies or Kearns will lose eligibility for TIF/TTIF
funding.




        Overview of MIH Legislative Changes and 2022 Drafted Plan Amendments | Page 5 of 12
                     CONTENT OF THE 2022 DRAFT PLAN AMENDMENT

The drafted 2022 Moderate Income Housing Plan Amendment, which is intended to replace the
2019 Plan, includes the required elements to ensure compliance with State Code. The Plan
proposes five (5) strategies for addressing Moderate Income Housing, allowing Kearns to qualify
for funding prioritization so long as actions are taken to implement each strategy. The selected
strategies include:

       E. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached
       accessory dwelling units in residential zones;

       F. Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in
       commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial
       centers, or employment centers;

       L. Reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate income housing;

       O. Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax
       incentives to promote the construction of moderate income housing. . .; and

       W. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multifamily residential
       dwellings compatible in scale and form with detached single-family residential
       dwellings and located in walkable communities within residential or mixed-use
       zones.

In addition to the five main strategies, the Plan Amendment proposes two alternatives:

       K. Preserve existing and new moderate income housing and subsidized units by utilizing a
       landlord incentive program, providing for deed restricted units through a grant program, or,
       notwithstanding Section 10-9a-535, establishing a housing loss mitigation fund; and

       M. Demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community land trust program for
       moderate income housing.

These alternatives had strong public support during the planning process. It is recommended that
Kearns still pursues implementation of these strategies. However, staff is currently uncertain that
implementation of these strategies is realistic within a five-year time frame. Funding and capacity
for administration will pose significant challenges for preparing a community land trust program
or subsidized / deed-restricted housing program. Thus, it is advised that Kearns pursues the main
five strategies to keep in compliance with state mandates, while reserving the two alternatives for
long-term housing strategy.




               Overview of MIH Legislative Changes and 2022 Drafted Plan Amendments | Page 6 of 12
The drafted Plan includes seven sections:

   1. Executive Summary: a one-page briefing on the plan purpose, selected strategies, and
      reporting requirements.
   2. Introduction to the Moderate Income Housing Plan: an overview of the State’s Moderate
      Income Housing requirements, the scope of the Plan, and how to use the Plan document.
   3. Kearns’ Existing Housing Conditions: an analysis of demographics, housing supply and
      demand, housing conditions, and land uses in Kearns. This section examines housing
      affordability and sets the foundation for understanding Kearns’ Moderate Income Housing
      needs.
   4. Kearns – Community Engagement and Housing Vision: summarizes community
      engagement results related to housing from Kearns’ adopted plans, from in-person
      workshops (2 participants on June 29th, 6 Participants on July 13th), from a Spanish-
      speaking focus group (3 participants), and from an online housing survey (67 English-
      responses and 16 Spanish-responses participants).
   5. Selected Strategies for Addressing Moderate Income Housing: provides an analysis of why
      each of the five (5) strategies was selected.
   6. Moderate Income Housing Implementation Plan: identifies how Kearns anticipates
      implementing each selected strategy and proposes a five-year timeline for doing so. This
      section includes detailed work programs for implementation.
   7. Appendix: includes relevant definitions, references, and the raw survey results from the
      2022 online housing questionairre.


                         ANALYSIS OF CHANGES FROM 2019 PLAN

Implementation: The biggest changes between the 2019 and 2022 Moderate Income Housing
Plans is the inclusion of an implementation element. Kearns was not previously required to
address implementation or include a timeline for when actions would be completed. This section
is entirely new in the 2022 Plan.

The implementation element of the Plan is divided into a few sections. The two primary sections
are the proposed timeline for implementation (shown in Figure 1) and the Moderate Income
Housing Work Program. The timeline considers a five-year implementation horizon, with steps
categorized based on whether they reflect research, coordination, or action. Work on Strategy O
is ongoing, meaning work on this strategy is anticipated to occur annually. The other strategies
are anticipated to be implemented by the end of 2025. Kearns ongoing work on updates to Titles
18 and 19 of municipal ordinance present an opportunity to implement Strategies E, F, and W
relatively quickly.



               Overview of MIH Legislative Changes and 2022 Drafted Plan Amendments | Page 7 of 12
As previously mentioned, the alternative strategies K and M are not included in the five-year
implementation. However, due to great community support, Kearns could continue researching
and planning to work towards those strategies simultaneously while implementing the five
selected strategies.

                 Figure 1: Proposed Timeline for Strategy Implementation.




                           Credit: MSD Long Range Planning, 2022.

The work program organizes each of the strategies in tables, with recommended actions, involved
parties, anticipated funding sources, metrics for measuring success, and resources to aid in
implementation (see Figure 2). The work program tables are intended to provide detailed
guidance to staff and decision-makers in implementation efforts and to facilitate easy annual
reporting.




               Overview of MIH Legislative Changes and 2022 Drafted Plan Amendments | Page 8 of 12
           Figure 2: Example of Moderate Income Housing Work Program Table.

 E. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached
 accessory dwelling units in residential zones.
                            Potential        Expected
                                                              Metric for
        Actions             Leads and        Funding                                 Resources
                                                           Measuring Success
                             Partners         Source
 E1. Staff conducts                                        Staff engages with
 research with                                             residents and can
 residents to              MSD PDS;                        identify the top       Portland Study
                                           Staff Time
 understand what           Residents                       barriers to ADU        of ADU-Owners
 barriers to ADU                                           construction in
 construction exist.                                       Kearns.
                                                           Staff prepares a
 E2. Staff studies case                                                           HUD Article on
                                                           study of pertinent
 studies related to top                                                           U.S. Efforts to
                           MSD PDS         Staff Time      case studies and
 barriers identified in                                                           Encourage ADU
                                                           potential paths
 E1.                                                                              Production
                                                           forward.

                             Credit: MSD Long Range Planning, 2022.

Data: While the data section in the 2022 Plan has been updated with different table layouts and
more recent numbers, many of the data points collected remain the same. The Plan still analyzes
key demographic indicators, the supply and demand of housing units at various price points, the
percentage of households that are cost-burdened, and more. New in 2022 is the inclusion of a
zoning and housing choice opportunity analysis. This analysis utilizes zoning data from the MSD.

The Strategies: The strategies selected in 2022 differ slightly from those selected in 2019. This is
partially due to language of each strategy changing in the State Code requirements. However,
there were also three strategies that were dropped from the 2019 Plan and two new strategies
that were added. Although only three strategies were required in 2019, the previous plan had
selected six. In 2022, only five strategies were selected intentionally, so that Kearns could committ
adequate resources to implementing and reporting on each of these per state code requirements.
See Figure 3 for additional information.




               Overview of MIH Legislative Changes and 2022 Drafted Plan Amendments | Page 9 of 12
       Figure 3: Comparison of 2019 and 2022 Strategies.




             Credit: MSD Long Range Planning, 2022.




Overview of MIH Legislative Changes and 2022 Drafted Plan Amendments | Page 10 of 12
                                  STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Throughout the planning process, MSD Staff worked closely with residents, Planning
Commissioners, and Kearns’ legal team. Staff have reviewed the drafted 2022 Moderate Income
Housing Plan Amendment, finding that the drafted Plan Amendment:

   •   Includes all content required by State Code related to Moderate Income Housing,
       including an analysis of how Kearns will provide a realistic opportunity for the development
       of moderate income housing within the planning horizon and a recommendation for how
       Kearns will implement three or more moderate income housing strategies (10-9a-403);
   •   Places Kearns in a postion that would allow the municipality to receive priority funding
       status in the future;
   •   Provides a realistic plan and timeline for implementation, given Kearns’ available resources;
       and
   •   Incorporates public input to ensure the Plan Amendment adequately reflects residents’
       vision for housing and future land uses.
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission give a recommendation of adoption to the
Kearns Council, following the public hearing. The recommendation may include adoption of the
drafted Plan with or without revisions, as determined by the Commission and supported by the
findings of the public hearing.

                                         CONCLUSION

HB 462, passed by the Utah State Legislature in 2022, made significant changes to the State’s
Moderate Income Housing planning and reporting requirements. Most notably, the legislative
changes amended the strategies available for Kearns to pursue in addressing Moderate Income
Housing and required that Kearns prepare a plan for implementation of each strategy it selects.

The drafted 2022 Moderate Income Housing Plan Amendments (Exhibit 1) incorporate these
recent changes and are intended to replace the 2019 Moderate Income Housing Plan. The drafted
Plan Amendments propose five strategies for Kearns:

       E. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached
       accessory dwelling units in residential zones;

       F. Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in
       commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial
       centers, or employment centers;

       L. Reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate income housing;

       O. Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax
       incentives to promote the construction of moderate income housing. . .; and


             Overview of MIH Legislative Changes and 2022 Drafted Plan Amendments | Page 11 of 12
       W. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multifamily residential
       dwellings compatible in scale and form with detached single-family residential
       dwellings and located in walkable communities within residential or mixed-use
       zones.

In addition, Strategies K and M are proposed as alternatives that should be pursued by the
community as resources allow. Although these strategies are highly supported by residents, their
implementation may take longer than five years. Thus, Strategies E, F, L, O, and W should be
prioritized in order to maintain compliance with State Code and guarantee favorable funding
status.

The Plan Amendment also establishes an implementation element for each strategy, within a five-
year timeframe. The implementation portion of the Plan Amendment is entirely new, as it was not
required in 2019. All Moderate Income Housing Plan Amendments must be adopted by October
1st, 2022, to ensure compliance with State Code.




              Overview of MIH Legislative Changes and 2022 Drafted Plan Amendments | Page 12 of 12
 EXHIBIT 1




     T
 AF
 R
D
Acknowledgments
      Kearns Council: Kelly Bush (Mayor), Tina Snow (Deputy Mayor), Chrystal Butterfield, Al
      Peterson, and Patrick Schaeffer.

      Kearns Planning Commission: Joe Hatch (Chair), David Taylor (Vice Chair), Laura Koester,
      and Joy Nelson.

      Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Staff / Project Team: Trent Sorenson
      (Director of Planning and Development Services), Brian Tucker (Planning Manager), Kayla
      Mauldin (Senior Long Range Planner – Project Co-Lead), Bianca Paulino (Summer Intern –
      Project Co-Lead), Wendy Gurr (Planning Coordinator), Erin O’Kelley (Long Range Planner),
      Matt Starley (Long Range Planner), Hannah Kalantari (Summer Intern), and Lilian Taft
      (Summer Intern).

      Legal Review: Nathan Bracken (Smith-Hartvigsen)

And a huge thank you to the residents who participated in our engagement efforts!




                                              T
                           AF
        R
       D




                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 2 of 74
Table of Contents
Executive Summary .............................................................................................................................................................................. 4
Introduction to the Moderate Income Housing Plan............................................................................................................. 5
    What is Moderate Income Housing? ....................................................................................................................................... 5
    Why do we plan for housing? .................................................................................................................................................... 5
    What is the scope of this plan? .................................................................................................................................................. 6
    How should this plan be used?.................................................................................................................................................. 6
    Utah Fair Housing Act Acknowledgement ............................................................................................................................ 7
Kearns’ Existing Housing Conditions ............................................................................................................................................ 8
    Introduction to Kearns .................................................................................................................................................................. 8
    Methodology ................................................................................................................................................................................. 10
    Demographics and Housing Characteristics ..................................................................................................................... 11
    Incomes and Housing Costs – Metrics on Affordability ............................................................................................... 15




                                                                                                   T
    Zoning and Housing Choice .................................................................................................................................................... 26
    What has Kearns done to address Moderate Income Housing? ............................................................................... 29
                                                             AF
Kearns – Community Engagement and Housing Vision .................................................................................................... 30
    The 2019 Moderate Income Housing Plan ........................................................................................................................ 30
    Housing in the 2020 General Plan ......................................................................................................................................... 31
    2022 Community Engagement Results ............................................................................................................................... 32
                  R
    Emergent Themes from Engagement Analysis................................................................................................................. 38
Selected Strategies for Addressing Moderate Income Housing .................................................................................... 39
    The State-Offered Strategies ................................................................................................................................................... 39
                 D


    Kearns’ Preferred Strategies ..................................................................................................................................................... 42
Moderate Income Housing Implementation Plan ................................................................................................................ 52
    Implementation Steps ................................................................................................................................................................ 52
    Proposed Timeline for Implementation .............................................................................................................................. 52
    How will Kearns measure progress? ..................................................................................................................................... 53
    The Moderate Income Housing Plan Work Program ..................................................................................................... 54
Appendix ............................................................................................................................................................................................... 58
    Definitions ....................................................................................................................................................................................... 60
    References ....................................................................................................................................................................................... 63
    Raw Survey Results (2022) ........................................................................................................................................................ 63




                                                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 3 of 74
Executive Summary
Purpose: The 2022 Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan incorporates new requirements
adopted by the State Legislature in 2022, through HB 462. The biggest changes between the
Kearns’ 2019 and 2022 Moderate Income Housing Plans are the modification of selected strategies
and the addition of an implementation plan for each Moderate Income Housing (MIH) strategy.

Analysis: This Plan analyzes demographics and housing unit characteristics, housing supply and
demand, affordability, and zoning. It also synthesizes community engagement data from the
Kearns General Plan (2020), the 2019 Moderate Income Housing Plan, and 2022 Moderate Income
Housing engagement efforts. Analysis by staff found that in 2020, 26.9% of Kearns households
were cost-burdened (spending more than 30% of their monthly income on housing costs). When
it comes to community vision and values related to housing, staff generally found that:

   •   Residents would prefer new development be focused in existing commercial centers or where
       infrastructure is already in place to minimize impacts.




                                                   T
   •   Kearns homeowners need additional support in maintaining their properties or making needed
       energy or accessibility retrofits.
   •   Neighborhood safety and beautification are highly valued by Kearns’ residents.
                              AF
   •   Community members generally support actions that would increase housing opportunities for
       residents, so long as those actions do not otherwise hinder quality of life.
   •   Residents are increasingly wary of land speculation and are interested in strategies that could
       preserve affordable housing in the long-term.

Selected Strategies: From the State’s list of available Moderate Income Housing Strategies,
         R

Kearns selected the following:

       E. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory
        D

       dwelling units in residential zones;
       F. Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in
       commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial centers,
       or employment centers;
       L. Reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate income housing;
       O. Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax incentives to
       promote the construction of moderate income housing. . .; and
       W. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multifamily residential dwellings
       compatible in scale and form with detached single-family residential dwellings and located in
       walkable communities within residential or mixed-use zones.

Next Steps: Following the adoption of the Moderate Income Housing Plan, staff will be required
to submit a copy of the Plan to the Utah Department of Workforce Services, along with an annual
report on implementation progress.

                             Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 4 of 74
Introduction to the Moderate Income Housing Plan
What is Moderate Income Housing?

This Plan addresses Moderate Income Housing (MIH), which Utah defines as, “housing occupied
or reserved for occupancy by households with a gross household income equal to or less than
80% of the median gross income for households of the same size in the county in which the
[municipality] is located.” (State Code 10-9a-103).

In 2020, the Area Median Income (AMI) for Salt Lake County (SLCo) was estimated at $77,128. A
household that would qualify as ‘moderate-income’ would earn $61,702 or less per year. In
Kearns, there were 4,146 out of 10,126 households (41%) that earned 80% or less of the
AMI (ACS S2503). While planning for Moderate Income Housing helps all residents, this Plan is
focused specifically on meeting the needs of those households.

Why do we plan for housing?




                                                T
State Code 10-9a-403, which was amended by House Bill 462 in 2022, requires Kearns to prepare
a General Plan with the following elements:

       Land Use;
   •
                             AF
   •   Transportation;
   •   Water Use and Preservation; and
   •   Moderate Income Housing.

All of these elements, with the exception of the newest Water Use and Preservation Element
requirement, have been addressed through Kearns’ General Plan. However, the 2019 Moderate
         R

Income Housing Element needed to be updated in order to reflect the State’s newest
requirements which include modified strategies for addressing Moderate Income Housing and
the addition of an implementation plan that outlines how Kearns will advance its selected
        D


strategies. This Plan is intended to replace the 2019 Moderate Income Housing Plan. It is the State
Legislature’s mandate that municipalities facilitate a reasonable opportunity for a variety of
housing, including moderate income housing, to:

   •   Meet the needs of people of various income levels living, working or desiring to live or
       work in the community; and
   •   Allow people with various incomes to benefit from and fully participate in all aspects of
       neighborhood and community life.
Required components of Kearns’ Moderate Income Housing Plan are explained throughout the
document.




                            Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 5 of 74
Regardless of State requirements, Kearns has a vested interest in addressing housing affordability.
Safe, stable, and accessible shelter is critical to all residents – it is a basic human need. In addition,
housing availability and cost can impact the municipality’s ability to attract and retain talented
workers, friends, and family members. As problems of housing affordability rise (over half of Utah
households could not afford a median-priced home in the State in 2022 according the Kem C.
Gardner Policy Institute), every municipality and county has a role to play.

What is the scope of this plan?

Although housing affordability is a regional challenge, this plan addresses only Kearns and the
strategies that staff, elected officials, and residents will pursue to meet their Moderate Income
Housing needs. Plans related to land use, transportation, and more can be found in the following
documents:

    •   Kearns Resilience and Infrastructure Element (2021): a supplementary element to the 2020
        General Plan, which addresses social, digital, and brick-and-mortar infrastructure as well
        as the relationship of these infrastructure systems to community resilience.




                                                   T
    •   Kearns General Plan (2020): a visioning and advisory document for Kearns decision-
        makers. The General Plan addresses land use, transportation, and economic development.
                               AF
    •   Kearns Master Transportation Plan (2020): an advisory document for decision-makers
        related to Kearns’ transportation infrastructure needs and recommended projects.
    •   Kearns Town Center Master Plan (2019): a visioning document for the proposed Town
        Center area of Kearns, located north and south of 5400 S between 4015 W and 4320 W.
        Salt Lake County Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan, Kearns Annex (2019): a
          R
    •
        hazard mitigation plan tailored to the unique conditions of the Kearns community.
This Moderate Income Housing Plan looks at a five-year planning horizon. After five years, Kearns
         D

should review this Plan and evaluate whether it still fits the needs of residents. At that time, the
implementation plan may need to be updated to reflect actions that Kearns will take to meet
Moderate Income Housing needs after 2027.

How should this plan be used?

This Plan can be used by decision-makers to inform actions and policies related to housing in
Kearns, by planning staff to meet State reporting requirements (explored in later sections), and by
residents to learn about the vision for housing in their community. The rest of this document is
divided into four (4) major sections:

    1. Kearns’ Existing Housing Conditions: this section examines the supply and demand of
       Moderate Income Housing in Kearns, as well as considering other conditions that influence
       the community’s housing market.




                              Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 6 of 74
    2. Kearns – Community Engagement and Housing Vision: the community engagement
       section outlines residents’ vision for housing in their community. Resident input was drawn
       from a number of sources, including the recent General Plan effort.
    3. Selected Strategies for Addressing Moderate Income Housing: this section explains the
       state requirements for addressing Moderate Income Housing and names the five (5)
       strategies that Kearns has selected to pursue to meet its requirements.
    4. Moderate Income Housing Implementation Plan: the final section details how Kearns will
       implement the strategies it selected and provides an anticipated timeline for
       implementation.
Most important terminology is defined within the text of the Plan. However, additional definitions
are provided for users in the Appendix.

Utah Fair Housing Act Acknowledgement

In accordance with State and Federal laws, Kearns exercises the authority to plan, zone, and




                                                   T
regulate land-use within its jurisdiction in promoting the community’s health, safety, and welfare.
This Moderate Income Housing Plan acknowledges and upholds the Utah Fair Housing Act by
promoting the equal protection and equitable treatment of all people who lawfully seek to rent,
                               AF
lease, purchase, or develop real property within its jurisdiction. Kearns’ housing policies and plans
strictly prohibit discrimination based on color, disability, ethnicity, familial status, gender identity,
national origin, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, source of income, or any other suspect
classification. It is the policy of Kearns to report housing discrimination to the Utah
Antidiscrimination Labor Division immediately. It is the goal of Kearns to prevent, eliminate, and/or
          R
mitigate any unfair housing practices that may result from its plans, policies, regulations, and
ordinances. It is also the goal of Kearns to affirmatively further fair and affordable housing by
reviewing the housing needs of its moderate-income households and its vulnerable populations
regularly, and by proactively planning to meet their needs.
         D




                              Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 7 of 74
Kearns’ Existing Housing Conditions
Introduction to Kearns

Kearns consists of 4.8 square miles of land-locked area, located in the west central portion of Salt
Lake County (Figure 1). Kearns is surrounded by West Valley City to the north and west, West
Jordan City to the south, and Taylorsville City to the east. In 2020, 36,457 people called Kearns
home (U.S. Census, 2020). Kearns is one of the most diverse communities along the Wasatch Front
(CADCA, 2018). In 2020,almost half of the entire population identified as an ethnicity or race other
than white and a third of the population spoke a language other than English at home (U.S.
Census).

                       Figure 1: Boundaries of Kearns Metro Township.




                                                T
                              AF
         R
        D


                                     Credit: Wikipedia, 2022.

In the 1940s, Kearns was home to “Camp Kearns”, an Army Air Force Base that trained American
troops for combat in World War II. After the closing of the base, land was converted to residential
uses for returning veterans. In 2002, Salt Lake City hosted the Olympic Winter Games, and the
official Olympic Oval for the events was built in Kearns. The U.S. Speed-Skating Team is still based
there today.




                            Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 8 of 74
             Figure 2: Utah Olympic Oval in Kearns – “the Fastest Ice on Earth”.




                                                 T
                              AF
                                   Credit: Visit Salt Lake, 2022.
         R

Kearns is almost entirely built out, and the majority of its land is dedicated to residential uses,
        D


which places some constraints on its ability to incentivize moderate income housing. When it was
incorporated in 2017, the community received very little in the way of commercial real estate.
Residents proudly proclaim their identity as a “bedroom community”, commuting primarily to Salt
Lake City or West Valley City for employment (Kearns General Plan, 2020). In recent years, however,
the community has recognized the need to expand its access to jobs, food, shopping, and
entertainment (Kearns General Plan, 2020). Programs like the Healthy Kearns Movement seek to
improve community health by providing opportunities for food access and active transportation;
the program was recently awarded funding to build Kearns’ first large-scale community garden.
Because so little land is available in Kearns, few opportunities exist for new development. Only
thirty-two (32) acres of land were vacant in 2020, and portions of that land south of Oquirrh Park
have since been platted for development (Kearns General Plan, 2020). The community has opted
to focus residential and infill development in its existing commercial clusters, where infrastructure
exists to handle the impacts of development and where existing residents will not be displaced by
new projects. Figure 3 shows land uses across Kearns.

                            Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 9 of 74
                          Figure 3: Kearns Existing Land Uses, 2020.




                                                T
                             AF
         R
        D

                            Credit: MSD Long Range Planning, 2020.

Methodology

A variety of resources were used in the formation of this plan. Data were retrieved from the United
States Census Bureau American Community Surveys, ESRI Community and Business Analyst
Online, and Salt Lake County Geographic Information System. The Utah Department of Workforce
Services, Housing, and Community Development Division provides a database of resources to
assist municipalities in the creation of their moderate-income housing plans. The following
resources were particularly critical in this assessment’s development:

   •   ULCT and WFRC HB 462 Summary
   •   ULCT SB 34 and HB 462 Guidance
   •   DWS, ULCT, WFRC Moderate Income Housing Deep Dive of HB 462
   •   Updated 10-9a-403 General Plan Preparation


                           Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 10 of 74
   •   Update 10-9a-409 Moderate Income Housing Report - Contents – Prioritization for fund
       or projects, ineligibility for funds after noncompliance - civil actions

Staff has also coordinated with multiple agencies and attended the Moderate Income Housing
Deep Dive Workshop hosted in April 2022.

Other Housing Plans Reviewed:

   •   Taylorsville MIH 2018
   •   West Valley City 2019
   •   Provo City 2019
   •   Draper City 2021
   •   Millcreek City 2021

Demographics and Housing Characteristics

Population




                                               T
Population in 2020 numbered approximately 36,457, a 2% increase from 2010’s population of
35,731 (Figure 4). Population has remained steady in the last decade and is projected to grow by
1% between the 2020 – 2027 period, with a population estimate of 36,675 in 2027 (Esri Community
                            AF
Analyst).

                   Figure 4: Historic & Projected Population | 1990-2027
         R
        D



         Credit: ACS DP01 & Esri Community Analyst "Demographic & Income Profile”




                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 11 of 74
Household Size:

In 2020, the average household size in Kearns was 3.6 (ACS DP02), and household size is projected
to remain steady through 2027 (Esri Community Analyst “Demographic & Income Profile”).
Average household size has slightly decreased since 2017, when it was 3.8.

Age

The age distribution range of Kearns affects the housing needs of the municipality. The majority
of Kearns’s population falls within the 18 yrs. – 64 yrs. age category, making up 61% of the total
population (Figure 5).

The community’s population of people over the age 65 has steadily increased in recent years, in
2020, the 65 and older population made up 7% of the population. This was an increase from 2010
where the 65 and older population made up only 5% of the population. The 65 and older
population is expected to increase to 9% of the total population by 2027 (Esri Community Analyst).
An aging population could indicate the need for more senior housing or accessibility retrofits to




                                               T
meet the needs of a changing demographic.

In 2020, the under 18 population made up approximately 32% of the total population, higher than
                             AF
the under 18 population of Salt Lake County which was 27%. There was no increase in the median
age between 2017 and 2020, and the median age is expected to increase from 29.6 to 30.8 by
2027 (Esri Community Analyst).

                               Figure 5: Age Distribution | 2020
         R
        D



         Credit: ACS DP01 & Esri Community Analyst "Demographic & Income Profile”




                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 12 of 74
Race & Ethnicity

Kearns is a racially and ethnically diverse municipality where almost half (47%) of the entire
population identifies as an ethnicity or race other than white (Figure 6). In 2020, 33% of residents
of any race identified as Latino; this was 2% lower than in 2017 when Latino residents made up
35% of the population. The Native Hawaiian & Other Pacific Islander population made up 3% of
the population. The White (non-Latino) population makes up 54% of the population and is
projected to decrease by 2027 to 52% (Esri Community Analyst).

                         Figure 6: Race & Ethnicity Distribution | 2020

                                        33%
                                                                White (Non-Hispanic/Latino)

                                                                Hispanic/Latino

                                                                Black (Non-Hispanic/Latino)




                                                 T
                                                      3%
                                                                American Indian (Non-
                                                      1%
                                                                Hispanic/Latino)
                                                      3%
                                                                Asian (Non-Hispanic/Latino)
                              AF                     3%
                                                                Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific
                                                    3%
                                                                Islander (Non-Hispanic/Latino)
                                                                Multiracial (Non-Hispanic/Latino)
                   54%
         R

         Credit: ACS DP05 & Esri Community Analyst “Demographic & Income Profile”

People with Disabilities
        D


In 2020, approximately 11%, or 3,999 people, in Kearns had a disability and lived in a non-
institutional setting (Figure 7). The table below indicates disability by type for people with
disabilities living in an institutional setting and non-institutional setting, such as nursing homes,
mental hospitals prisons, jails, and juvenile correctional facilities (Census Bureau).




                           Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 13 of 74
                              Figure 7: Disability Type | 2020




                                     Credit: ACS S1810




                                              T
Veterans

Kearns’ veteran population in 2020 numbered approximately 1,188, making up 5% of the total
                           AF
population 18 years and over. Of this population of veterans, 513, or 43%, were living with a
disability (Figure 8).

                     Figure 8: Veteran Population with a Disability | 2020
         R
        D



                                      Credit: ACS S1810




                         Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 14 of 74
Incomes and Housing Costs – Metrics on Affordability

Income

There are three main measures of household income: mean, per capita, and median. Mean
household income averages the income of all households in an area of consideration. Kearns’s
2020 mean household income was $78,805. Per capita income is the total income divided by the
total population; it conveys per person income assuming an even distribution. Kearns’s 2020 per
capita income was $22,315. Median household income is the middle amount when listing all
household incomes from low to high. Kearns’s MHI in 2020 was $68,870. Per State Code 10-9a-
403, the AMI used in this study is based on the AMI for Salt Lake County. Salt Lake County’s 2020
AMI was $77,128 (Figure 9).

                         Figure 9: Household Income by Type | 2020




                                               T
                             AF
          R
         D


                                Credit: ACS B25119 and S1903

It is important to note that the median income for Kearns is $68,870 and significantly below
that of Salt Lake County. Households of various types, such as renter households or single-
female parent households, also have different median incomes (Figure 10).




                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 15 of 74
                    Figure 10: Kearns Median Household Income           | 2020

 Household Income by Type                             Annual Income         Monthly Income
 Area Median Household (SLCo)                            $77,128               $6,427
 Local Median Household (Kearns)                         $68,870               $5,739
 Area Median Homeowner Household (SLCo)                  $94,872               $7,906
 Local Median Homeowner Household (Kearns)               $73,723               $6,144
 Area Median Renter Household (SLCo)                     $49,636               $4,136
 Local Median Renter Household (Kearns)                  $48,908               $4,076
 White Household                                         $71,477               $5,956
 Black or African -American Household                    $23,875               $1,990
 Hispanic Household                                      $58,391               $4,866
 Asian Household                                         $72,227               $6,019
 Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander              $91,250               $7,604
 Some Other Race Household                               $57,931                 $4,828
 Families with a single Female Householder               $46,093                 $3,841
 Families with a single Male Householder                 $59,628                 $4,969




                                                T
 Female Householder (Non-Family)                         $36,863                 $3,072
 Male Householder (Non-Family)                           $60,707                 $5,059
 Elderly Household                                       $42,713                 $3,559
                             AF
                                  Credit: ACS B25119 & S1903

Housing Value

In 2020, housing value in Kearns was concentrated in the range of $100,000 to $499,999 (Figure
         R
11). Slightly over half (53.5%), or 4,463, of the 8,340 owner-occupied homes were valued between
$200,000 to $299,99. The housing median value increased significantly from $164,900 in 2017 to
$220,400 in 2020, a 34% increase in value.
        D


                         Figure 11: Housing Values in Kearns | 2020

                   Value                            Count        Percentage
                   Total Owner-Occupied Units               8,340
                   Less than $50,000                  395           4.7%
                   $50,000 to $99,999                 48            0.6%
                   $100,000 to $149,999               788           9.4%
                   $150,000 to $199,999              1,698         20.4%
                   $200,000 to $299,999              4,463         53.5%
                   $300,000 to $499,999               892          10.7%
                   $500,000 to $999,999               28            0.3%
                   $1,000,000 or more                 28            0.3%
                   Median Value                            $220,400
                                       Credit: ACS DP04


                           Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 16 of 74
                      Figure 12: Housing Values in Kearns | 2010 – 2027




                                               T
                 Credit: ACS DP04 & Esri Community Analyst “Housing Profile”
                            AF
Housing Types

Kearns held 10,126 occupied housing units in 2020 (Figure 13). The majority of units were
detached single-family units (9,629 in total). The second most frequent type of unit was mobile
homes; in 2020, there were 218 mobile home units. Most units have 6-8 rooms and 3-4 bedrooms
(Figure 14).
         R

                           Figure 13: Housing Types | 2017 - 2020

                                    2017                    2020
        D

       Housing Type                                                          Change 2017-2020
                            Count       Percent    Count           Percent
   Total Occupied Units     9,892        100%      10,126           100%           234
   1-unit, detached         9457         92.8%      9,629           93.9%          172
   1-unit, attached          100         1.0%        128            1.2%            28
   2 units                   63          0.6%        29             0.3%           -34
   3 or 4 units              26          0.3%         0             0.0%           -26
   5 to 9 units              58          0.6%        80             0.8%            22
   10 to 19 units            185         1.8%        92             0.9%           -93
   20 or more units          103         1.0%        76             0.7%           -27
   Mobile home               198         1.9%        218            2.1%            20
   Boat, RV, van, etc.        0          0.0%         0             0.0%            0
                                       Credit: ACS DP04




                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 17 of 74
                 Figure 14: Number of Rooms and Bedrooms per Unit | 2020

                          Bedrooms                Number      Percentage
                          No bedroom                 13          0.1%
                          1 bedroom                  49          0.5%
                          2 bedrooms                1148        11.2%
                          3 bedrooms                3634        35.4%
                          4 bedrooms                3738        36.5%
                          5 or more bedrooms        1670        16.3%
                                        Credit: ACS DP04

Housing Occupancy

There were 10,252 housing units in Kearns in 2020. Of these, were 10,126 occupied units and 126
were vacant units (Figure 15). There were 8,340 owner-occupied units and 1,786 renter-occupied
units in 2020. It is projected that there will be a total of 10,178 occupied units in 2027, of which
8,372 will be owner-occupied and 1,807 renter-occupied.




                                                T
                        Figure 15: Housing Occupancy in Kearns | 2020

   Year     Owner Units
                              AF
                            Renter Units     Vacant Units     Total Occupied Units      Total Units
   2000         7,607          1,036             210                    9,191             9,401
   2010         8,000          1,780             389                    9,780             10,169
   2017         8,102          1,790             298                    9,892             10,190
   2020         8,340          1,786             126                    10,126            10,252
   2027         8,372         1,806           ---              10,178                       ---
           R
          Credit: ACS DP04 & Esri Community Analyst “Demographic & Income Profile”

Housing Year & Condition
          D

The majority (59.4%, or 6,080 housing units) were built before 1980, with one-third of units (30.4%
or 3,112 houses) built before 1960 (Figure 16). Given the age of the housing stock in Kearns, the
community can expect upkeep and maintenance costs to be high. In addition, homes built prior
to 1960 are at increased risk of unreinforced masonry and remnant lead paint.




                           Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 18 of 74
                                Figure 16: Housing Age in Kearns | 2020

                                                         2017                  2020
                      Year Built
                                                 Count      Percent    Count      Percent
          Built Before 1980                      6,516      64.0%      6,080      59.4%
          Built Before 1960                      3,546      34.7%      3,112      30.4%
          Built 2014 or later                      8            0.1%      60          0.6%
          Built 2010 to 2013                      13            0.1%      8           0.1%
          Built 2000 to 2009                      579           5.7%    745           7.3%
          Built 1990 to 1999                     1,572      15.4%      1549       15.1%
          Built 1980 to 1989                     1,502      14.7%      1810       17.7%
          Built 1970 to 1979                     2,633      25.8%      2591       25.3%
          Built 1960 to 1969                      337           3.3%    377           3.7%
          Built 1950 to 1959                     3,069      30.1%      2901       28.3%
          Built 1940 to 1949                      306           3.0%    120           1.2%
          Built 1939 or earlier                   171           1.7%      91          0.9%




                                                  T
                                           Credit: ACS DP04

Existing Housing Costs
                                  AF
Nearly half (48%) of both renter and homeowner households paid between $1,000 and $1,499
every month on housing costs in 2020 (Figures 17 and 18). Additionally, over a third of both
homeowner (37.8%) and renter (39.9%) households paid over $1,500 in monthly housing costs.
Homeowner and renter households paid similar monthly housing costs, while renter households
had a significantly lower median household income than homeowner households.
         R

                Figure 17: Monthly Owner-Occupied Household Costs | 2020
        D




                                           Credit: ACS S2503

                            Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 19 of 74
                Figure 18: Monthly Renter-Occupied Household Costs | 2020




                                               T
                             AF
                                       Credit: ACS S2503

Cost-Burdened Housing

HUD considers an affordable monthly housing payment for either an owner-occupied dwelling or
rented unit to be no greater than 30 percent of gross monthly income. This includes utilities and
other housing costs such as mortgage and hazard insurance. When monthly housing payments
         R

cost more than 30 percent of gross monthly income, that household is said to be cost-burdened.
Households can be cost-burdened at any income level.
        D

The table below shows the 2020 rate of cost-burdened households in Kearns (Figure 19). Almost
a third (27.4%) of all households were cost-burdened, while another fourth (24.4%) of all
households were at risk of being cost-burdened. Therefore, over half (51.8%) of all Kearns
households were or were at risk of being burdened by housing costs in 2020. The most cost-
burdened group were households with an income between $20,000 to $34,99 and $50,000 to
$74,999 per year; a total of 1,621 households in these brackets were cost-burdened.

Between owners and renters, renters experience a greater housing cost-burden (Figure 20).
Almost a half (48.4%) of renter households were cost-burdened, while a fourth (22.3%) of
homeowner households were cost-burdened. Of particular concern is the second-lowest income
bracket ($20,000 to $34,999) with almost a fourth of renters in this bracket being cost-burdened.




                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 20 of 74
              Figure 19: Percentage of Income going toward Housing Costs | 2020

                Not Cost-burdened: <20%      Cost-burden Risk: 20-29%        Cost-burdened: >30%
   Income
                  Count       Percentage       Count       Percentage        Count       Percentage
    Range
  Less than
                    9            0.1%           32            0.3%            419           4.2%
   $20,000
 $20,000 to        165           1.7%           99            1.0%            588           5.9%
   $34,999
 $35,000 to        440           4.4%           332           3.3%            794           8.0%
   $49,999
 $50,000 to        577           5.8%          1,095         11.0%            827           8.3%
   $74,999
 $75,000 or       3,625         36.3%           875           8.8%            103           1.0%
    more
    Total         4,816         48.3%          2,433       24.4%             2,731          27.4%
                                         Credit: ACS S2503




                                                 T
  Figure 20: Income Ranges who are Cost-Burdened with Housing by Occupancy | 2020

                    Total Cost-Burdened        Total Cost-Burdened       Total Cost-Burdened Renter
                              AF
                        Households              Owner Households                 Households
 Income Range       Count      Percentage      Count       Percentage       Count       Percentage
    Less than
                     419         4.2%           209           2.5%            210          11.8%
     $20,000
   $20,000 to
                     588         5.9%           291           3.5%            297          16.6%
     $34,999
         R
   $35,000 to        794         8.0%           576           6.9%            218          12.2%
     $49,999
   $50,000 to        827         8.3%           687           8.2%            140           7.8%
     $74,999
        D

   $75,000 or        103         1.0%           103           1.2%             0            0.0%
      more
      Total         2,731        27.4%         1,866       22.3%              865          48.4%
                                         Credit: ACS S2503

Targeted Income Groups and Affordability Thresholds

Income levels at 30% of AMI are considered “very low-income,” while those at 50% are “low-
income” and those at 80% are “moderate-income.” These 30, 50, and 80 percent groups are
targeted income groups. In the following table, targeted income groups are calculated using both
the area median income (Salt Lake County) value and the local median income (Kearns) value
(Figure 21). Annual income was divided by twelve to give monthly household income. Monthly
housing allowance represents total housing costs affordable at 30% of gross monthly income. This
value is the upper limit that a household could pay without being housing cost-burdened.


                            Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 21 of 74
           Figure 21: 2020 Annual and Monthly Incomes and Housing Allowance

 Annual Median Household Income
                      125%      100% (Median)    80% (Moderate)      50% (Low)     30% (Very Low)
 Kearns             $86,088        $68,870          $55,096           $34,435         $20,661
 Salt Lake County   $96,410        $77,128          $61,702           $38,564         $23,138
 Monthly Household Income (Annual Income divided by 12)
                      125%      100% (Median)    80% (Moderate)      50% (Low)     30% (Very Low)
 Kearns              $7,174        $5,739            $4,591           $2,870          $1,722
 Salt Lake County    $8,034        $6,427            $5,142           $3,214          $1,928
 Monthly Housing Allowance (30 Percent Monthly Income)
                      125%      100% (Median)    80% (Moderate)      50% (Low)     30% (Very Low)
 Kearns              $2,152        $1,722            $1,377            $861             $517
 Salt Lake County    $2,410        $1,928            $1,543            $964             $578
                                      Credit: ACS B25119

By using Salt Lake County’s AMI, calculations for Kearns may overestimate the community’s ability




                                               T
to afford housing. For example, as shown in Figure 21, 30% of Salt Lake County AMI is $23,138,
but 30% of Kearns’s median income is $20,661. Due to this discrepancy, this plan recommends
                             AF
that officials and decision-makers understand the calculations as conservative estimates and
encourages communities to strive for making housing as affordable as possible.

 The discrepancy is driven by differences in median household income: $68,870 for Kearns while
$77,128 for Salt Lake (Figure 21). This discrepancy is seen even more when comparing renter and
homeowner households, however, in all the target groups Salt Lake County’s AMI is higher. Due
         R
to the difference between homeowner and renter households, targeted income groups were
calculated separately for each (Figure 22 and Figure 23). To determine affordable rental rates, a
household would subtract anticipated monthly utility costs from the total monthly housing
allowance.
        D




                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 22 of 74
Figure 22: 2020 Annual and Monthly Incomes and Housing Allowance (Renter Household)

 Annual Median Household Income
                      125%       100% (Median)     80% (Moderate)      50% (Low)     30% (Very Low)
 Kearns              $61,135        $48,908           $39,126           $24,454         $14,672
 Salt Lake County    $62,045        $49,636           $39,709           $24,818         $14,891
 Monthly Household Income (Annual Income divided by 12)
                      125%       100% (Median)     80% (Moderate)      50% (Low)     30% (Very Low)
 Kearns              $5,095          $4,076            $3,261           $2,038          $1,223
 Salt Lake County    $5,170          $4,136            $3,309           $2,068          $1,241
 Monthly Housing Allowance (30 Percent Monthly Income)
                      125%       100% (Median)     80% (Moderate)      50% (Low)     30% (Very Low)
 Kearns              $1,528          $1,223             $978             $611             $367
 Salt Lake County    $1,551          $1,241             $993             $620             $372
                                      Credit: ACS B25119

Figure 23: 2020 Annual and Monthly Incomes and Housing Allowance (Owner Household)




                                              T
 Annual Median Household Income
                       125%       100% (Median) 80% (Moderate)          50% (Low)     30% (Very Low)
                            AF
 Kearns              $92,154         $73,723           $58,978           $36,862         $22,117
 Salt Lake County    $118,590        $94,872           $75,898           $47,436         $28,462
 Monthly Household Income (Annual Income divided by 12)
                       125%       100% (Median) 80% (Moderate)          50% (Low)     30% (Very Low)
 Kearns               $7,679          $6,144           $4,915            $3,072          $1,843
         R
 Salt Lake County     $9,883          $7,906           $6,325            $3,953          $2,372
 Monthly Housing Allowance (30 Percent Monthly Income)
                       125%       100% (Median) 80% (Moderate)          50% (Low)     30% (Very Low)
        D

 Kearns               $2,304          $1,843           $1,474             $922             $553
 Salt Lake County     $2,965          $2,372           $1,897            $1,186            $712
                                     Credit: ACS B25119

Other Targeted Groups

When income is broken down according to demographic subsets, substantial differences among
their median household incomes becomes visible. These annual income differences lead to
monthly income differences and thus monthly housing allowance differences. This means that
specific subsets of people have different affordability thresholds (Figure 24).




                         Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 23 of 74
The discrepancies between median income of homeowners and renters, male and female
householders, White and non-White households, elderly households, and others all translate into
different thresholds for affordability. Six demographic subsets fall significantly below the Salt Lake
County area median household income of $77,128 (see Figure 10): renter householder ($48,908),
Black or African American householder ($23,875), single female householder ($46,093), female
non-family householder ($36,863), and elderly householder ($42,713).

Figure 24: Other Targeted Groups – Monthly Incomes and Housing Allowance | 2020

                                  Monthly Income Levels                Monthly Housing Allowance
     Household Income
     by Type               30%   50%     80%     100%     125%   30%    50%     80%     100%       125%
     Area Median
     Household (SLCo)      $536 $3,214 $5,142 $6,427 $8,034 $161        $964   $1,543 $1,928 $2,410
     Local Median
     Household (Kearns)    $478 $2,870 $4,591 $5,739 $7,174 $143        $861   $1,377 $1,722 $2,152
     Area Median
     Homeowner




                                                    T
     Household (SLCo)      $659 $3,953 $6,325 $7,906 $9,883 $198 $1,186 $1,897 $2,372 $2,965
     Local Median
     Homeowner
     Household (Kearns)    $512 $3,072 $4,915 $6,144 $7,679 $154        $922   $1,474 $1,843 $2,304
                                 AF
     Area Median Renter
     Household (SLCo)      $345 $2,068 $3,309 $4,136 $5,170 $103        $620    $993   $1,241 $1,551
     Local Median
     Renter Household
     (Kearns)              $340 $2,038 $3,261 $4,076 $5,095 $102        $611    $978 $1,223 $1,528
     White Household       $496 $2,978 $4,765 $5,956 $7,446 $149        $893   $1,430 $1,787 $2,234
     Black or African-
         R
     American
     Household             $597 $995 $1,592 $1,990 $2,487 $179          $298    $478   $597   $746
     Hispanic Household    $405 $2,433 $3,893 $4,866 $6,082 $122        $730   $1,168 $1,460 $1,825
     Asian Household       $502 $3,009 $4,815 $6,019 $7,524 $150        $903   $1,445 $1,806 $2,257
     Some Other Race
        D

     Household             $402 $2,414 $3,862 $4,828 $6,034 $121        $724   $1,159 $1,448 $1,810
     Native Hawaiian and
     Other Pacific
     Islander              $634 $3,802 $6,083 $7,604 $9,505 $190 $1,141 $1,825 $2,281 $2,852
     Families with a
     single Female
     Householder           $320 $1,921 $3,073 $3,841 $4,801      $96    $576    $922   $1,152 $1,440
     Families with a
     single Male
     Householder           $414 $2,485 $3,975 $4,969 $6,211 $124        $745   $1,193 $1,491 $1,863
     Female
     Householder (Non-
     Family)               $256 $1,536 $2,458 $3,072 $3,840      $77    $461    $737    $922   $1,152
     Male Householder
     (Non-Family)          $422 $2,529 $4,047 $5,059 $6,324 $126        $759   $1,214 $1,518 $1,897
     Elderly Household     $297 $1,780 $2,848 $3,559 $4,449 $89         $534    $854 $1,068 $1,335

                                    Credit: ACS B25119 and S1903


                              Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 24 of 74
Availability of Housing Units

Using Salt Lake County's AMI, there is a deficit in owner units available for the income range
$96,410 of 2034 units. The reasoning for this could be households earning this amount are
spending significantly less than 30% of their income, living in housing units that are more
affordable. This limits the amount of affordable housing units for lower income ranges. There is a
similar situation for rental units, however, our calculation demonstrates a deficit for rental housing
units for the income ranges of less than 30% AMI ($23,138) and 30-50% AMI ($23,138-$38,564).

    Figure 25: Availability and Need of Existing Owner Housing, using SLCo AMI | 2020

                 Maximum      Maximum Affordable                      # of Owner
                 Affordable     Monthly Housing    # of Owner            Units     Surplus/Deficit of
  Income Range
               Monthly Housing Costs (Housing cost Households         Available at Units Available
                 Allowance       minus utilities)                      that Price




                                                   T
  Less than 30%
  AMHI                $578                $310              346           487             141
  (<$23,138)
                               AF
  30%-50%
  AMHI
                      $964                $696              735          1655             920
  ($23,138-
  $38,564)

  50%-80%
         R
  AMHI
                      $1,543             $1,275            1970          2413             442
  ($38,564-
  $61,702)
        D

  80%-100%
  AMHI
                      $1,928             $1,660            1313          2019             706
  ($61,702-
  $77,128)

  100%-125%
  AMHI
                      $2,410             $2,142            1590          1414             -176
  ($77,128-
  $96,410)

  >125% AMHI
                     >$2,410             >$2,142           2385           351            -2034
  (> $96,410)


                             Credit: ACS B25118, B25119, B25056, S250




                             Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 25 of 74
    Figure 26: Availability and Need of Existing Renter Housing, using SLCo AMI | 2020

                                     Maxiumum
                  Maximum
                                      Affordable                     # of Renter
                  Affordable                                                         Surplus/Deficit
    Income                         Monthly Housing     # of Renter      Units
                   Monthly                                                              of Units
     Range                          Costs (Housing     Households    Available at
                   Housing                                                             Available
                                      cost minus                      that Price
                  Allowance
                                       utilities)
 Less than
 30% AMHI            $578                $310              404            136             -268
 (<$23,138)
 30%-50%
 AMHI
                     $964                $696              292            119             -173
 ($23,138-
 $38,564)
 50%-80%




                                                  T
 AMHI
                    $1,543              $1,275             397            505             108
 ($38,564-
 $61,702)
 80%-100%
                               AF
 AMHI
                    $1,928              $1,660             187            558             371
 ($61,702-
 $77,128)
 100%-125%
 AMHI
                    $2,410              $2,142             196            430             234
 ($77,128-
         R
 $96,410)
 >125% AMHI        >$2,410             >$2,142             309            36              -273
 (> $96,410)
        D

                             Credit: ACS B25118, B25119, B25056, S250

Zoning and Housing Choice

Figures 27 and 28 show Kearns’ zoning patterns and housing choices available in each zone. The
majority of Kearns is zoned for single-family residential, although there are opportunities for
multi-family development spread throughout the community. Most of the sites zoned RM have
already been developed for multi-family residential uses. Kearns allows internal accessory dwelling
units (iADUs) to occupy the building footprint of an already existing home in any single-family
residential zone with a lot size of at least 6,000 sq. ft. Detached accessory dwelling units are
allowed in single family zones with a lot size of 5,000 sq. ft. or greater. Kearns requires owner-
occupancy on any site that has an accessory dwelling unit.




                             Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 26 of 74
In the north central portion of Kearns, there is an existing mobile home park that provides
additional opportunities for low- and moderate-income housing. During the 2020 General Plan
process, residents were clear that they wanted the mobile home park use preserved in order to
maintain diverse opportunities for community residents.

                              Figure 27: Kearns Zoning Map.




                                              T
                           AF
         R

                          Credit: MSD Long Range Planning, 2022.
        D




                         Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 27 of 74
 Figure 28: Kearns Zoning Description.




                     T
  AF
 R
D



 Credit: MSD Long Range Planning, 2022.




Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 28 of 74
What has Kearns done to address Moderate Income Housing?

Kearns adopted its first Moderate Income Housing Plan in 2019. The vision of that Plan is
described more in following sections. Since the adoption of the 2019 Plan, Kearns made several
significant accomplishments in addressing housing:

       Adoption of the 2020 General Plan: the 2020 General Plan was the first General Plan for
       Kearns since its incorporation as a municipality. The Plan’s Land Use Chapter identified
       several areas of the community where additional housing options were feasible and
       desired by residents. Future land uses were grouped into “Character Areas” which are
       described in greater detail throughout this Plan. The Neighborhood Mixed-Use, Moderate
       Income Housing Opportunities, and Town Center Character Areas all envision the influx of
       additional housing opportunities – namely through small-scale mixed-use, live-work units,
       and duplexes and quadraplexes. Figure 29 displays the Character Area Map for Kearns.

                 Figure 29: Kearns Character Area Map, Adopted in 2020.




                                               T
                            AF
         R
        D


                           Credit: MSD Long Range Planning, 2020.

       Adoption of an Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance: prior to 2020, accessory dwelling units
       (ADUs) were prohibited in Kearns. In keeping with the community’s 2019 Moderate Income
       Housing Strategy to ‘create or allow for ADUs’, Kearns adopted an ordinance permitting
       both internal and detached accessory dwelling units by right, when specified standards
       are met. ADUs are permitted in most of Kearns’ residential zones, but require that owner-
       occupancy of either the primary building or ADU be maintained as a condition of the
       permit.

                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 29 of 74
Kearns – Community Engagement and Housing Vision
Although the State-mandated timeline for making the required changes to the Moderate Income
Housing Plan was limited, planning staff recognized the importance of seeking and synthesizing
resident input on housing. Residents had the opportunity to engage through two in-person events
and one online survey during the Summer of 2022. Staff also relied on engagement results from
past planning efforts, including the 2019 Moderate Income Housing Plan and the 2020 General
Plan.

The 2019 Moderate Income Housing Plan

During the 2019 Moderate Income Housing planning process, Kearns residents had the
opportunity to engage with staff and regional partners at an in-person workshop. Participants
were provided with an overview of the moderate income housing requirements and a list of the
available strategies for addressing housing. From the options that were available at that time,
Kearns selected six strategies that they were interested in pursuing:




                                                T
       B) Facilitate the rehabilitation or expansion of infrastructure that will encourage the
       construction of MIH;
                             AF
       C) Facilitate the rehabilitation of existing uninhabitable housing stock into MIH;

       E) Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, accessory dwelling units (ADUs)
       in residential zones;

       F) Allow for higher density or moderate income residential development in commercial
       and mixed-use zones, commercial centers, or employment centers;
         R

       G) Encourage higher density or moderate income residential development near major
       transit investment corridors; and
        D


       L) Preserve existing MIH.

At the time the Plan was adopted, accessory dwelling units were not permitted in Kearns; Since
then, Kearns authorized both internal and external ADUs as permitted uses in most residential
zones. The intent of selecting Strategy G was to examine bus routes in Kearns and focus
development near major stops; however, since the adoption of the 2019 Plan, the 2020 General
Plan was completed and provides an outline for future land uses, including where density would
be supported by residents. Strategy L, ‘preserve existing MIH’, encouraged Kearns to partner with
the County’s Green and Healthy Homes Program to assist residents in making needed repairs and
retrofits.

Note that the strategies listed above vary slightly from the language of the strategies now
available to Kearns. The State Legislature updated its strategy requirement language in 2022.




                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 30 of 74
Housing in the 2020 General Plan

Kearns’ vision statement was adopted in 2020 and serves as the guiding principle for planning
and decision-making. The statement recognizes Kearns’ diversity and emphasizes resident
participation in planning and decision-making processes:

       Kearns is a community of diverse individuals and families dedicated to health, safety,
       quality education, economic opportunity, environmental sustainability, sincere
       friendship, service to others, pursuit of happiness, and finding pleasure in activities
       for all ages. The Kearns community celebrates its military and Olympic history and
       takes responsibility for the future by fostering a strong sense of shared identity. To
       support a high quality of life for all residents, Kearns promotes shared decision-
       making regarding housing, transportation, environment and economic growth.
       (Kearns General Plan, 2020)

The 2020 General Plan referred to the Moderate Income Housing Plan for its housing element.




                                               T
However, there were several recommended action items in the Plan’s Land Use Chapter that relate
to housing. Recommendations included:
                             AF
   •   Adjust zoning policies to allow for diverse housing types, including attached single-family
       housing, triplexes and fourplexes, courtyard apartments, and other ‘missing middle
       housing types’ in the Moderate Income Housing Opportunities Character Area.
   •   Establish a working group with the goal of assisting low-income homeowners with ADU
       construction through funding or other resources.
         R
   •   Adjust zoning ordinance to allow for mixed-use residential development in the Kearns
       Town Center.
The 2021 supplementary amendment to the General Plan, the Resilience and Infrastructure
        D


Element, also included recommendations related to housing:

   •   Connect residents to resources for home repair and maintenance, including energy-saving
       retrofits.
   •   Educate residents on the risk of lead paint, lead plumbing, and radon in homes, and how
       to monitor and mitigate.
Significant resident engagement shaped the General Plan, and Kearns’ leadership rely on its vision
to guide planning and decision-making for the community.




                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 31 of 74
2022 Community Engagement Results

Workshops: Community members in Kearns had the opportunity to participate in two in-person
public workshops – on June 29th and July 13th, 2022 at the Salt Lake County Government Center.
These events were advertised on the MSD Website, MSD Social Media (K-Town Facebook Group),
through the MSD newsletter, and also by email invite to Kearns Planning Commission and Council
members. Flyers were also distributed at the Kearns Library, and announcements were given at
library events. Two Kearns’ representatives attended the first event, where staff gave an overview
of recent Moderate Income Housing legislation and introduced and received feedback on the
available strategies. At the second event, six Kearns residents were in attendance, and staff
facilitated more in-depth conversations around desired moderate income housing strategies and
potential actions for implementation.

Focus Group: On July 28th, staff facilitated a focus group with three Spanish-speaking residents in
Kearns. Two of these community members are renters and one is a homeowner. Their responses
were translated and analyzed, the following are themes that emerged from the discussion:




                                                T
   -   Housing/Land Speculation: Community members shared concerns about investors and
       developers buying and flipping homes/properties which makes it unaffordable for current
                             AF
       community members, specifically renter households. This same concern was brought up
       by community members during the public workshops.

       “Investors don’t know what the community needs, like what is affordable or what we need.”
       (2022 Focus Group Participant)

       “My rent has doubled, I never know when my landlord will choose not to renew my lease
         R
       so it feels unstable.” (2022 Focus Group Participant)

   -   Displacement: Kearns residents have observed community members no longer being able
       to afford living in Kearns and having to move out of the community.
        D


       "I have two friends who had to move out because it got too expensive living here and they
       were renting."

Survey: In addition to the in-person events, community members were invited to share input
through an online and paper survey. The survey was available in English or Spanish and was
advertised through MSD communications and at the Kearns Library, including through various
Library-based programs and classes. Sixty-seven (67) Kearns residents submitted responses to the
English version of the survey, and sixteen (16) Kearns residents took the Spanish version.




                           Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 32 of 74
When asked what their most significant housing challenge was, the majority of residents answered,
“Keeping up with home repairs / maintenance” (see Figure 30). After home repairs, affordability
(including buying a home or making current payments) was the most frequently cited challenge.
Responses to this question should be used by the municipality to better understand the
moderate-income housing needs of existing residents. Even for those already in housing, it can
be difficult to make payments or keep up with needed maintenance.

      Figure 30: 2022 Most Significant Housing Challenges Among Kearns Residents.




                                               T
                             AF
         R
        D


                            Credit: MSD Long Range Planning, 2022.

The survey also asked respondents if they would support the addition of accessory dwelling units,
townhomes, courtyard housing, or mixed-use in their community if it helped with housing choice
and affordability. Residents open-ended responses were analyzed and are presented in Figure 31.
The majority of respondents (60%) said that they would support the addition of these housing
types, although certain criteria were often included in responses. For example, some respondents
would only support townhomes or only support mixed-use. Others still would support diverse
housing types, but only if those units were made affordable and held affordable for the long-term.

For respondents who said that they would not support the listed housing types, the most
frequently cited reason was anticipated negative impacts on infrastructure and services. Others
felt that the community should focus on fixing up its existing buildings before building anything
new (Figure 31).

                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 33 of 74
Figure 31: Resident Responses to the Question: Would You Support the Addition of ADUs,
           Townhomes, Courtyard Housing, or Mixed-Use in Your Community?




                                            T
                         AF
        R
       D



                        Credit: MSD Long Range Planning, 2022.




                       Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 34 of 74
When asked which housing features were most important to them, the top five features selected
by residents were:

   1. Outdoor space (yard, patio, balcony);
   2. Proximity to grocery store(s);
   3. Location in their current neighborhood;
   4. Garage; and
   5. Proximity to parks and open space.
These results show a preference toward open space, proximity to needed goods and services, and
preservation of social ties (location in current neighborhood). The results could be used by the
municipality to influence zoning standards related to new housing construction, to ensure new
development in Kearns is of a high-quality and meets resident needs and wants.

             Figure 32: Housing Features Most Important to Kearns Residents.




                                                T
                            AF
         R
        D



                           Credit: MSD Long Range Planning, 2022.

The final question in the 2022 Moderate Income Housing Survey asked the following: “What is
one reasonable action you think your community could take in the next year to improve housing
conditions and options?” Fifty-seven (57) residents responded to this question, and their
comments are grouped into policies, programs, and projects (Figure 33).

                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 35 of 74
Many responses were related to code enforcement and other general activities to improve
neighborhood quality of life (Figure 33). A few responses related to zoning changes, such as new
provisions for ADUs, mixed-use zoning districts, and zoning for diverse housing types. Residents
were also interested in any policies that may be able to address land speculation.

Funding programs were also a top recommendation by respondents, who were particularly
interested in resources for the rehabilitation of homes or home maintenance.




                                               T
                            AF
         R
        D




                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 36 of 74
Figure 33: Respondent Recommended Actions for Addressing Housing Conditions and
                               Opportunities.




                                         T
                      AF
      R
     D




                     Credit: MSD Long Range Planning, 2022.

                    Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 37 of 74
Emergent Themes from Engagement Analysis

Across previous planning efforts and in the 2022 engagement results, resident values and opinions
related to housing generally align:

   1. Residents prefer that any new housing development occur near commercial centers, in
      underutilized spaces (such as vacant buildings), and in places where the infrastructure is
      already available to support development. Residents are particularly concerned about
      traffic impacts, crime, and displacement.
   2. Many Kearns residents already own their homes and need additional support in
      maintaining them or making needed energy or accessibility retrofits.
   3. Residents value safety and beautification in their residential neighborhoods and expect
      any new development to contribute its fair share to quality of life.
   4. Kearns residents recognize that their community is home to a racially and economically
      diverse population with different housing needs and support taking actions that would




                                               T
      increase housing opportunities for residents, while enhancing quality of life.
   5. Residents are increasingly concerned about land speculation and are looking for ways to
                             AF
      preserve moderate income housing and market rate affordable housing on a long-term
      basis.
         R
        D




                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 38 of 74
Selected Strategies for Addressing Moderate Income Housing
The State-Offered Strategies

House Bill 462 (2022) amended the list of strategies that municipalities could choose from in
addressing Moderate Income Housing. The twenty-three (23) strategies have been re-worded to
become more actionable. For example, Strategy C – Facilitate the rehabilitation of existing
uninhabitable housing stock into MIH – became, “demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation of
existing uninhabitable housing stock into moderate income housing”. This places a higher burden
of proof on municipalities to show that they are taking steps to rehabilitate MIH units.

In addition to changing strategy language, HB462 added new provisions related to the number
of strategies municipalities must select and report on. The minimum number of strategies a
municipality can choose is still three (3). However, a municipality must choose five (5) in order to
receive priority consideration for important funding sources including those from the State
Transportation Commission and Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget (COVID-19 Local




                                                 T
Assistance Matching Grants). Grant funding is essential to the upkeep of infrastructure and
services. Thus, five strategies are included in this Moderate Income Housing Plan.

From the list of available strategies show in Figure 34, Kearns plans to implement the following:
                              AF
       “E. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory
       dwelling units in residential zones;

       F. Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in
       commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial
          R
       centers, or employment centers;

       L. Reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate income housing;
         D

       O. Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax incentives
       to promote the construction of moderate income housing. . .; and

       W. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multifamily residential dwellings
       compatible in scale and form with detached single-family residential dwellings and located
       in walkable communities within residential or mixed-use zones.”

Alternatives:

There were two additional strategies that were supported based on survey results and in-person
engagement at the Moderate Income Housing Workshops. Kearns may work toward these
strategies in the future, but existing resource and capacity limitations make it impossible to
identify a timeline for implementation.




                           Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 39 of 74
K. Preserve existing and new moderate income housing and subsidized units by utilizing a
landlord incentive program, providing for deed restricted units through a grant program,
or, notwithstanding Section 10-9a-535, establishing a housing loss mitigation fund

M. Demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community land trust program for
moderate income housing;




                                       T
                     AF
  R
 D




                  Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 40 of 74
     Figure 34: Available State Strategies and Applicability to Kearns.




                                      T
                    AF
 R
D




Credit: MSD Long Range Planning, 2022 – strategies from State Code 10-9a-403.

                 Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 41 of 74
Kearns’ Preferred Strategies

This section explores Kearns’ selected strategies and provides broad guidance on how each may
be implemented by the community.

E. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory
dwelling units in residential zones.

              When asked what action Kearns could take to improve housing conditions and
              options, one resident answered:

              “Provision for ADUs” (Resident Response, 2022 Moderate Income Housing Survey).

              Another resident stated:

              “Funding to add [an] accessory house to my property” (Resident Response, 2022
              Moderate Income Housing Survey).

       Accessory dwelling units (ADUs) are habitable dwelling units added to, created within, or




                                               T
       detached from a primary residential dwelling and contained on a single lot. They differ
       from duplexes, which are typically established on two separate but adjoining lots. ADUs
                            AF
       come in many different shapes and sizes, as demonstrated in Figure 35. These types of
       units contribute to the housing market in two ways:

       1. Providing homeowners who choose to add an ADU to their property with secondary
          income that can help them afford mortgage payments or make necessary home
          repairs; and
         R
       2. Adding additional housing stock to neighborhoods (through the ADU itself).
                         Figure 35: Examples of Accessory Dwelling Units.
        D



                                         Credit: Housable, 2022.




                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 42 of 74
      Kearns adopted an accessory dwelling unit (ADU) ordinance in 2021, which authorized
      both internal and external ADUs. However, since that time, few ADUs have been
      constructed. This is despite feedback from homeowners that they are interested in adding
      ADUs to their existing properties. Staff have noted regulatory hurdles, including setback
      requirements and other non-life-threatening standards that limit the feasibility of ADU
      construction. Research into these and other barriers to ADU construction are needed so
      that Kearns can better facilitate ADU development, where appropriate, in the community.
      It should be noted that the State requires the municipality to allow internal accessory
      dwelling units (iADUs) in most residential neighborhoods. Kearns’ efforts toward this
      strategy would be targeted at improving the feasibility of adding an ADU to existing sites
      and connecting residents with needed resources for navigating the permitting process.

F. Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in
commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial
centers, or employment centers.




                                              T
             When asked what action Kearns could take to improve housing conditions and
             opportunity, one resident said:

             “Form-based zoning and human scaled mid-density housing along 5400 S”
                            AF
             (Resident Response, 2022 Moderate Income Housing Survey)

      Kearns’ adopted General Plan proposes mixed-use development in an area referred to as
      the Kearns Town Center (see Figure 36). This area is located on 5400 South (a major transit
      investment corridor) and near several commercial amenities as well as the Kearns Library.
      Since the adoption of the General Plan, the C-2 Zone, in which most of the Town Center
        R

      lies, has not undergone extensive review and updating. Aligning the zoning more
      thoroughly with the General Plan will help Kearns to make progress toward Strategy F.
       D




                         Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 43 of 74
       Figure 36: Location of the Kearns Town Center and Future Zoning Considerations.




                                              T
                           AF
                                 Credit: Kearns General Plan, 2020.

      The Town Center is one of the only areas of Kearns that can support additional residential
      development because most of Kearns is built-out. Although the primary intent of the Town
      Center is to become a hub for business and a community gathering place, the integration
      of some residential uses can be effective in providing a customer base for nearby
        R
      commercial development. The area poses an additional opportunity to develop housing
      types not currently present in Kearns, such as live-work units, which add housing supply
      and expand housing choice. Local businesses and residents have expressed concerns
       D

      regarding displacement if the Town Center were rezoned and local businesses were no
      longer able to afford renting the space. Kearns may need to consider programs or policies
      to prevent displacement so that new development does not negatively impact this area,
      its residents, or its business owners.

L. Reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate income housing.

             When asked if they would support the addition of accessory dwelling units,
             townhomes, courtyard housing, or mixed-use in Kearns, one resident answered:

             “Only if they fix the infrastructure. Right now, it can take me more than 15 minutes
             at certain times of the day to get out of my neighborhood because of traffic.
             Adding more housing without planning a way for people to get in and out is
             insane.” (Resident Response, 2022 Moderate Income Housing Survey)



                         Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 44 of 74
       Kearns is a relatively young municipality, having incorporated in 2017. Prior to
       incorporation, Kearns was an unincorporated township of Salt Lake County. The County
       did not charge any impact fees for development, and thus Kearns did not inherit any fee
       system that could help it pay for the infrastructure and service costs of new development.
       In some cases, this has led to frustration among residents who feel that new development
       is causing impacts which aren’t being addressed or funded by the developers (see above
       example). In recent years, Kearns has been exploring its options related to impact fees and
       anticipates changes to its fee structure in coming years.

       However, the community recognizes residents’ desire for moderate-income housing units.
       Eighteen percent (18%) of survey respondents identified their most significant housing
       challenge as keeping up with their existing rent or mortgage payments (Moderate Income
       Housing Survey, 2022). And several residents expressed to staff that they worry about
       whether future generations, including their own children, will be able to afford to live in
       Kearns. The community can commit to not imposing impact fees on moderate income
       housing in the future, as a way to encourage residential development that is more




                                               T
       affordable to residents.

O. Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax incentives
                             AF
to promote the construction of moderate income housing, […] or any other entity that
applies for programs or services that promote the construction or preservation of moderate
income housing.

              “We don’t need more buildings and housing[.] We need the ability to afford &
              maintain the houses we do have.” (Resident Response, 2022 Moderate Income
         R
              Housing Survey)

       In the 2022 Moderate Income Survey, 36 out of 82 Kearns residents identified their biggest
       housing challenge as keeping up with home repairs. Many residents of Kearns have owned
        D


       their homes for a long period of time and are not cost-burdened. However, challenges of
       home maintenance, needed energy retrofits, and adaptations for aging populations or
       those with disabilities can threaten housing stability and financial health. Connecting
       residents with funding for home repairs and emergency retrofits can help ensure housing
       remains affordable to residents and reduce housing turnover and speculation that could
       lead to increased costs.

       Kearns is fortunate to participate in programs through Salt Lake County Housing and
       Community Development, including:




                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 45 of 74
Green and Healthy Homes – The Green and Healthy Homes program is open to all
households in Salt Lake County that earn eighty percent (80%) or less of the Area
Median Income (AMI). Households are provided with a free home assessment and
a report of deficiencies. Then, program staff work with the homeowners to address
the critical needs related to health and safety. Repairs and retrofits covered under
the Green and Healthy Homes program include lead and radon abatement,
energy-efficient upgrades, critical repairs (windows, roofing, electrical, plumbing),
and accessibility or ageing-in-place upgrades.

Partners involved in the Green and Healthy Homes program include Community
Development Corporation of Utah, University of Utah Health Plans, Utah
Community Action Weatherization Program, State of Utah Health Department
Asthma program, Utah Physicians for Healthy Environment, Green & Healthy
Homes Initiative, Utah State Radon Coalition, and the Salt Lake County Health
Department Asthma program.




                                 T
  Figure 37: Salt Lake County Green and Healthy Homes Challenge Book –
               Roots of the Problem v. Roots of the Solution.
              AF
 R
D


Credit: Salt Lake County – Housing and Community Development, n.d. Read the
                             full guidebook here.

HOME Investment Partnerships Program - The HOME Investment Partnerships
Program provides 0-3% loans to help finance the cost of development and
construction of rental housing and the cost of purchase and rehabilitation of
existing rental housing projects. In 2021, $3,038,634 was expended county-wide
from the HOME Program. These funds were often paired with Low Income Housing
Tax Credits (LIHTC) to help resources go further.


            Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 46 of 74
              HOME funds may also be used for down-payment assistance, mortgage assistance,
              housing rehabilitation, and new construction of single-family homes for
              households earning eighty percent (80%) or less of area median income.

       In the future, Kearns may want to strengthen coordination with Salt Lake County Housing
       and Community Development to ensure that residents are aware of and benefitting from
       the available programs.

W. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multifamily residential dwellings
compatible in scale and form with detached single-family residential dwellings and located
in walkable communities within residential or mixed-use zones.

              When asked what action Kearns could take to improve housing conditions and
              options, one resident said:

              “Change in zoning to allow more housing options such as multi-unit buildings,
              townhomes, multi-use/mixed-use buildings. Creation of urban centers that can




                                               T
              germinate an arts culture. Performing arts spaces. Spaces for theatre. Greater
              walkability. Multi-modal infrastructure. Greenways that allow safe bike transit.
              Reduction of parking lots that become heat centers.” (Resident Response, 2022
                            AF
              Moderate Income Housing Survey)

       In 2022, the Utah Foundation conducted a survey of Utah residents to understand housing
       preferences, particularly as they relate to Missing Middle Housing types (“house-scale
       buildings, with multiple units, in walkable neighborhoods” – see also Figure 38). The
       Foundation’s survey found that residents still prefer the single-family housing over other
         R
       housing types (Utah Foundation, 2022). However, respondents offered positive reactions
       to multi-family development (particularly duplexes and triplexes) that shared the same
       scale and design as single-family homes (ibid).
        D


                             Figure 38: Missing Middle Housing Types.




                                         Credit: Opticos, 2020.


                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 47 of 74
Kearns planned for Missing Middle Housing in two of its General Plan “character areas”
(categorized future land uses based around centers or unique community qualities). The
Moderate Income Housing Opportunities Character Area seeks to integrate Missing
Middle Housing types into an existing multi-family area near the intersection of 6200
South and Cougar Lane (see Figure 39). This area is served by a fixed-route bus and
experiences close proximity to a number of goods and services, including Harmon’s
Grocery Store. Although Kearns does not want to see additional mid-rise or blocky
apartment buildings, the community may be open to housing that fits the scale and
character its current built-out environment, which largely consists of single-family homes.

    Figure 39: Kearns’ Moderate Income Housing Opportunities Character Area.




                                        T
                      AF
  R

                            Credit: Kearns General Plan, 2020.

One other Character Area creates significant opportunities for integrating multi-family
 D


housing at the scale and character of single-family housing. The Neighborhood Mixed-
Use Character Area (Figure 40) envisions a mix of commercial, townhome, and live-work
unit development that maintains Kearns’ viewshed while promoting residential access to
needed goods and services. Updates to Kearns’ zoning ordinance can help ensure
compatibility with the adopted General Plan while also promoting Moderate Income
Housing strategies.




                   Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 48 of 74
                     Figure40: Kearns’ Neighborhood Mixed-Use Character Area.




                                    Credit: Kearns General Plan, 2020.




                                                 T
[Alternative 1] K. Preserve existing and new moderate income housing and subsidized units
by utilizing a landlord incentive program, providing for deed restricted units through a
                              AF
grant program, or, notwithstanding Section 10-9a-535, establishing a housing loss
mitigation fund.

Strategy K is included in this Plan as an alternative strategy. This item was of interest to community
members because it could address concerns with housing and land speculation by ensuring that
the existing and future moderate income housing units or market-rate affordable housing are
         R
held affordable in perpetuity. Kearns residents shared support for deed restrictions when
purchasing housing or receiving funding for repairs and supported conditions on new
development. Types of deed restrictions include:
        D


   •   Limiting the resale price by specifying a percentage increase limit regardless of the existing
       market.
           Example: resale price = original price + specified increase limit or sale price tied to
               the area median income (AMI).
   •   Specifying which households are eligible to purchase the home based on AMI.
           Example: an eligible household would qualify if their household income was up to
               80% of the AMI.
   •   Restricting purchasers to owner-occupancy for a required amount of time.
           Example: A new homeowner must live in the property full-time as their primary
               residence for a certain number of years.




                            Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 49 of 74
Although desirable by residents, this strategy is listed as an alternative because the feasibility of
implementation is unclear. Kearns would require a grant or outside funding to be able to
administer a program that incentivized owners to enter into a deed restriction. This strategy has
also been difficult for other, similar communities to implement because of pushback from
developers.

[Alternative 2] M. Demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community land trust
program for moderate income housing.

                  Figure 41: Guidance for Community Land Trust Programs.




                                                 T
                              AF
         R
        D


                          Credit: NYC Community Land Initiative, 2022.

Strategy M is included in this Plan as Alternative 2. Kearns residents shared interest and support
for Strategy M to create a community land trust to build and preserve moderate income housing.
During the July 13th workshop, residents brainstormed ideas on how a community land trust (CLT)
program would be created, funded, and how it could acquire properties. Some ideas included
partnering with a local housing non-profit such as NeighborWorks, who currently runs a CLT
program, to apply for funding and create the CLT with the Kearns Council and Kearns residents.
Another idea was rehabilitating uninhabitable housing through community groups or a nonprofit
which would improve vacant or older homes without significantly raising their value and cost; the
CLT would acquire the land, while the home itself would belong to the homeowner. This prevents
the owner from cashing in on appreciated land value, keeping the residential property below
market rates in the long-term.

                           Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 50 of 74
Kearns community members support and would like to work toward implementing this strategy.
The community recognizes that this action, which requires significant funding and personnel
resources, may take longer than five years to implement. Thus, five other strategies were selected
for reporting purposes, and this strategy is held as a desired alternative for the community to
work toward.




                                               T
                             AF
         R
        D




                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 51 of 74
Moderate Income Housing Implementation Plan
HB 462 expanded on the Moderate Income Housing Plan requirements, specifying that
municipalities must adopt an implementation plan which identifies anticipated steps, timelines,
and benchmarks for implementing the selected strategies. The municipality is allowed some
flexibility in implementation but should be actively working toward each of the five Moderate
Income Housing strategies to receive priority funding consideration.

Implementation Steps

Broadly, implementation of each strategy will occur in three parts:

   1. Research: in this phase, staff assigned to the strategy will research potential programs,
      policies, and projects that could facilitate implementation. Staff should also search for case
      studies, available funding sources, and other resources that can support implementation.
      Data should be collected to facilitate the needed program, policy, or project – whether
      that be demographics, market conditions, community input, or some other source.




                                                 T
   2. Coordination: in the second part, staff should start reaching out to anticipated partners
      and team members. A team should be assembled to begin planning for the program,
                              AF
      policy, or project, and important partners should be included in discussions about funding,
      ongoing maintenance, and measures of success.
   3. Action: in this stage, the program, policy, or project is carried out. This may look like
      drafting a land use ordinance and bringing it through the adoption process, applying for
      a grant for needed support infrastructure, or launching a home maintenance program.
         R
The timeline for each strategy’s three phases of implementation is discussed in the next section.
More specific action items related to each strategy are included in the Moderate Income Housing
Work Program on pg.55.
        D


Proposed Timeline for Implementation

It is anticipated that work on the five strategies will be staggered over the upcoming years. A
proposed timeline is presented in Figure 42. Strategy O is the only strategy that requires ongoing
work. Staff anticipates that resources from the Green and Healthy Homes Program and HOME
Investment Partnership Program will need to be advertised to residents on an annual basis; in
addition, staff may need to provide data to support County grant applications and provide other
assistance to ensure ongoing funding of the programs.

In the next two years, Kearns anticipates making comprehensive revisions to its land use
ordinances. This provides an opportunity to address Strategies E, F, and W, which all pertain to
zoning and facilitation of the permitting process.

While staff will likely start researching fee systems starting in 2023, the community is not expected
to take definitive action regarding Strategy L until future years.

                           Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 52 of 74
                 Figure 42: Proposed Timeline for Strategy Implementation.




                                                T
                             AF
         R

                            Credit: MSD Long Range Planning, 2022.

How will Kearns measure progress?
        D


In the years following the adoption of this Plan, Kearns is required to report annually on progress
made in implementing the selected strategies. Written reports must be submitted to the State’s
Housing and Community Development Division within the Department of Workforce Services by
October 1st of each year. State Code 10-9a-408 outlines requirements for the annual report, which
must include:

   •   A description of each MIH strategy selected by the municipality for implementation;
   •   An implementation plan;
   •   A description of each action taken by the municipality during the previous fiscal year to
       implement the municipality’s MIH strategies;




                           Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 53 of 74
   •   A description of each land use regulation or land use decision made by the municipality
       during the previous fiscal year to implement the municipality’s MIH strategies, including
       an explanation of how the land use regulation or land use decision supports the
       municipality’s implementation efforts;
   •   A description of any barriers encountered by the municipality in the previous fiscal year
       while implementing its MIH strategies;
   •   Information regarding the number of internal and external / detached accessory dwelling
       units for which the municipality issued a building permit to construct or issued a business
       license to rent;
   •   A description of how the market has responded to the selected MIH strategies, including
       the number of entitled MIH units or other relevant data; and
   •   Any recommendations on how the state can support the municipality in implementing the
       MIH strategies.




                                                 T
All of the metrics defined above will be tracked by MSD Planning and Development Services, who
issues building permits and processes land use applications for Kearns. In addition, staff will track
progress with their own internal metrics and measures of success, as outlined in the work program.
                              AF
What if a strategy is found to be ineffective? Research is the first step in implementing each of the
proposed Moderate Income Housing strategies. If staff begins work on a strategy and finds that
it cannot be implemented for any reason (lack of political will, unsubstantial funding, lack of staff
capacity, or regulatory barriers), it may be necessary to evaluate other options. State law allows
for flexibility if the community finds that a strategy does not work. However, it may be necessary
         R
to replace that strategy in future years to ensure that Kearns continues working on five strategies
and can keep its priority funding status.

The Moderate Income Housing Plan Work Program
        D


The following work program identifies the key steps that will help planners and decision-makers
implement each Moderate Income Housing Strategy. The work program relies on several
departments and partner organizations to carry it forward. That is because planning for housing
is a collaborative effort that requires diverse agencies to work toward a collective vision.

This work program is intended to be used by staff and decision-makers to help them organize
and report on their implementation efforts. The tables can easily be translated to a progress report
to be sent to the State’s Department of Workforce Services - Housing and Community
Development Division as a part of the annual reporting requirements.




                           Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 54 of 74
E. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached
accessory dwelling units in residential zones.
                                             Expected           Metric for
                         Potential Leads
       Actions                               Funding           Measuring            Resources
                          and Partners
                                              Source             Success
E1. Staff conducts                                         Staff engages with
research with                                              residents and can
                                                                                  Portland Study
residents to             MSD PDS;                          identify the top
                                            Staff Time                            of ADU-
understand what          Residents                         barriers to ADU
                                                                                  Owners
barriers to ADU                                            construction in
construction exist.                                        Kearns.
                                                           Staff prepares a       HUD Article on
E2. Staff studies case
                                                           study of pertinent     U.S. Efforts to
studies related to
                         MSD PDS            Staff Time     case studies and       Encourage
top barriers
                                                           potential paths        ADU
identified in E1.
                                                           forward.               Production




                                               T
E3. Staff presents
                                                           Staff presents
findings to the
                                                           findings and
Kearns Planning
                                                           receives direction
                            AF
Commission and           MSD PDS;                                                 Salt Lake City
                                                           from leadership
Council and seeks        Kearns PC;         Staff Time                            ADU Report
                                                           regarding which
direction on policies,   Kearns Council                                           2021
                                                           strategies to
programs, and
                                                           pursue to facilitate
projects to address
                                                           ADU construction.
barriers.
        R
                                                           Success may look
                                                           like a program to
                                                           bring pre-existing
       D

                         MSD PDS;           Staff Time;    ADUs into
                         Kearns PC;         CDBG           compliance,            North Salt Lake
E4. Staff implements
                         Kearns Council;    Funding;       guides to assist       Waived Fee for
the selected strategy
                         MSD                Fee Waivers    residents with         Pre-Existing
as directed.
                         Communications     as             construction, or       ADUs
                         Manager            Applicable     relaxed regulations
                                                           for ADUs on
                                                           owner-occupied
                                                           properties.




                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 55 of 74
F. Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development
in commercial or mixed-use zones, commercial centers, or employment centers.
                                              Expected          Metric for
                          Potential Leads
       Actions                                Funding           Measuring            Resources
                           and Partners
                                               Source            Success
F1. Staff audits
existing ordinances
                                                            Staff identifies
and looks for
                                                            sections of the
incongruities with                                                                Kearns Long
                                                            code that do not
the Town Center           MSD PDS            Staff Time                           Range Planning
                                                            align with the
Master Plan and                                                                   Hub Site
                                                            Town Center
General Plan’s Town
                                                            Character Area.
Center Character
Area.
F2. Staff refers to the                                     Staff prepares
General Plan and                                            draft revisions to




                                                T
Town Center Master                                          the Zoning
                                                                                  Case Study:
Plan when drafting                                          Ordinance, as
                          MSD PDS            Staff Time                           Holladay Village
potential                                                   applicable, to        Zone
                             AF
amendments to                                               move toward
underlying                                                  conformity with
ordinance.                                                  the General Plan.
F3. Staff seeks
                                                                                  Utah State
direction from the                                          Staff presents
                                                                                  Code on
Planning                  MSD PDS;                          findings and draft
                                                                                  Preparation and
        R
Commission and            Kearns PC;         Staff Time     language to
                                                                                  Adoption of
Council regarding         Kearns Council                    leadership, seeking
                                                                                  Land Use
drafted                                                     input on revisions.   Ordinances
amendments.
       D


                                                            The Zoning
                                                            Ordinance is
                                                            amended to better
                                                            reflect the vision
F4. Staff leads                                             of the Town
                                                                                  Zoning
updated ordinances        MSD PDS;                          Center as
                                                                                  Considerations
through the               Kearns PC;         Staff Time     presented in the
                                                                                  for Live/Work
adoption process as       Kearns Council                    General Plan and
                                                                                  Units
directed.                                                   Town Center
                                                            Master Plan, and
                                                            to meet the
                                                            community’s MIH
                                                            needs.



                           Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 56 of 74
L. Reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate income housing.
                                            Expected          Metric for
                        Potential Leads
      Actions                               Funding           Measuring            Resources
                         and Partners
                                             Source            Success
L1. Staff works with
                                                          Staff gains
the Planning
                        MSD PDS, MSD                      understanding of
Commission, Council,
                        Administration,                   financial tools and
and legal team to                                                               Revised Impact
                        Kearns PC,         Staff Time     educates PC and
understand what                                                                 Fee Structures
                        Kearns Council,                   Council on tools
revenue sources and
                        Legal Team                        other communities
fee structures are
                                                          are using.
available.
L2. With guidance
from the Planning
Commission, Council,
                        MSD PDS; MSD
and legal team, staff                                     Staff prepares a
                        Administration;




                                              T
drafts a resolution                                       draft resolution
                        Kearns PC;         Staff Time                           NA
that Kearns will not                                      and presents it to
                        Kearns Council;
impose impact fees                                        the Council.
                        Legal Team
                            AF
on moderate income
housing
developments.
                                                          The resolution is
                                                          adopted and
L3. Staff works with                                      advertised through    Local Housing
        R
the Council and legal                                     Kearns media.         Solutions:
                        MSD PDS;
team to get the                                           Kearns commits to     Reduced or
                        Kearns Council;    Staff Time
resolution officially                                     waiving any           Waived Fees
                        Legal Team
adopted by the                                            impact fees related   for Qualifying
       D


community.                                                to moderate           Projects
                                                          income housing
                                                          development.




                         Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 57 of 74
O. Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax
incentives to promote the construction of moderate income housing, […] or any
other entity that applies for programs or services that promote the construction
or preservation of moderate income housing.
                                            Expected          Metric for
                        Potential Leads
      Actions                               Funding           Measuring            Resources
                         and Partners
                                             Source            Success
O1. Staff researches
Kearns’ MIH needs
                                                          Staff learns about
related to the Green                                                            About the
                        MSD PDS, SLCo                     programs related
and Healthy Homes                                                               National Green
                        Housing and                       to Kearns’ MIH
and HOME Invest-                           Staff Time                           and Healthy
                        Community                         needs and shares
ment Partnerships                                                               Homes
                        Development                       information with
Programs, and looks                                                             Initiative
                                                          residents.
for ways to get
residents involved.




                                              T
O2. Staff works with
SLCo Housing and
                                                          Potential
Community
                           AF
                        MSD PDS; SLCo                     partnership           HOME
Development to
                        Housing and                       opportunities and     Investment
identify potential                         Staff Time
                        Community                         program               Partnerships
opportunities for
                        Development                       expansions are        Program
partnership and
                                                          identified.
expansion of
programs in Kearns.
        R
O3. Staff presents
identified
                        MSD PDS;                          Staff presents to
opportunities to the
                        Kearns Planning                   Kearns leadership
       D

Commission and
                        Commission;        Staff Time     and receives          NA
Council, seeking
                        Kearns Council;                   direction on next
direction on which
                        Legal Team                        steps.
opportunities to
pursue.
                                                          Success looks like
O4. Staff applies for                                     forming a stronger
                        MSD PDS;
grants, provides                                          partnership /
                        Kearns Planning
technical support, or                      Staff Time;    relationship with
                        Commission;
conducts education                         Possible       SLCo Housing and      SLCo CDBG
                        Kearns Council;
and outreach with                          Grant          Community             Funds
                        SLCo Housing
residents as directed                      Funding        Development and
                        and Community
by the Commission                                         connecting
                        Development
and/or Council.                                           residents with
                                                          needed resources.

                         Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 58 of 74
W. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multifamily residential
dwellings compatible in scale and form with detached single-family residential
dwellings and located in walkable communities within residential or mixed-use
zones.
                                            Expected          Metric for
                        Potential Leads
      Actions                               Funding           Measuring            Resources
                         and Partners
                                             Source            Success
W1. Staff audits
existing ordinances
                                                          Staff identifies
and looks for                                                                   Case Study:
                                                          sections of
incongruities with                                                              Kalamazoo, MI
                                                          ordinance that do
the General Plan’s      MSD PDS            Staff Time                           – Residential
                                                          not align with the
Neighborhood                                                                    Mixed-Use
                                                          Character Areas as
Mixed-Use and MIH                                                               Zone
                                                          adopted.
Opportunities
Character Areas.




                                              T
                                                          Staff prepares
W2. Staff refers to                                       draft amendments
the General Plan                                          to the Zoning
                           AF                                                   Case Study:
when drafting                                             Ordinance, as
                        MSD PDS            Staff Time                           Portland, OR –
amendments to                                             applicable, to
                                                                                RM1 Zone
ordinances identified                                     move toward
in W1.                                                    alignment with the
                                                          General Plan.
W3. Staff seeks
        R
                                                          Staff presents        Utah
direction from the
                                                          findings and draft    Foundation
Planning                MSD PDS;
                                                          language to           Report on
Commission and          Kearns PC;         Staff Time
                                                          leadership and        Missing Middle
       D

Council regarding       Kearns Council
                                                          obtains input on      Survey
drafted
                                                          revisions.            Responses
amendments.
                                                          The Zoning
                                                          Ordinance is
W4. Staff leads                                           amended to better
updated ordinances      MSD PDS;                          reflect the vision    What is
through the             Kearns PC;         Staff Time     of the General        Missing Middle
adoption process as     Kearns Council                    Plan and to meet      Housing?
directed.                                                 the community’s
                                                          MIH needs related
                                                          to Strategy W.




                         Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 59 of 74
Appendix
Definitions

The following definitions are derived from the 2019 Moderate Income Housing Plan for Kearns.

Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU): This is a term used to define small, self-contained residential units
located on the same lot as an existing, single-family home. These can be attached or detached
units. Common terms are granny units, lockouts, accessory apartments, mother-in-law
apartments, or tiny homes.

Affordable Housing: Affordability can be understood as a relationship between a household’s
income and its housing costs. It means in general, housing for which the occupant(s) is/are paying
no more than 30 percent of his or her income for gross housing costs, including utilities.

This is a term created by the federal government (Department of Housing and Urban
Development, HUD) and is a definition that is intended solely as an approximate guideline. Some




                                                T
jurisdictions may define affordable housing based on other, locally determined criteria. Housing
developments that use federal funds are targeted toward residents of a certain income bracket to
receive funding. Units produced through these programs generally serve people at 95% or below
                              AF
of the region’s Area Median Income (see AMI) depending on the region and the program. The
federal government uses this percentage benchmark when awarding funds to states and in setting
federal housing policies. HUD defines moderate-income as income that does not exceed 95% of
AMI, low income as income that does not exceed 80% of Area Median Income (AMI), very low
income as income that does not exceed 50% of AMI, and extremely low income as income that
does not exceed 30% of AMI.
         R

AMHI: The Area Median Household Income (AMHI) is the midpoint of a certain area’s income
distribution. Half of the households in a given area earn more than the median and half earn less.
        D


AMI: Area Median Income (AMI) is the median family income level for an area (in this report, Salt
Lake County) as determined by the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development,
based on U.S. Census data. The median divides the income distribution into two equal parts: one-
half of the cases fall below the median income and one-half above it. HUD uses the median
income to calculate income limits for eligibility in a variety of housing programs. HUD estimates
the median family income for an area and adjusts that amount for different family sizes.

Community Development Block Grant (CDBG): Housed within HUD, CDBG is a program that
provides communities with resources to address a wide range of unique community needs. The
CDBG program provides annual grants on a formula basis to cities of 50,000+ residents.

Density: Density is a number of units in a given land area (project area, subdivision, parcel). In
mixed use projects, density is the number of housing units divided by the land area of the mixed-
use development (that includes area used for non-residential uses such as office or retail space).


                           Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 60 of 74
Fair Market Rent (FMR): This is a rate of rent that is set by the Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) with a primary function to control costs. These rent rates are used in their
programs when they award funds. Unless a municipality has rent control provisions or owns the
land and the development, then they do not get involved in setting rents at the market level. Fair
market rents vary by state and county.

Housing Cost Burden: This is a term or data point that communities can use to see the need in
their area. 30% or more of a household’s income is recommended to be spent on housing costs.
When more than 50% of a household’s income is spent on housing costs, it is considered a severe
cost burden.

Housing Gap: the difference between the number of housing units available at 30, 50, 80, and 100
percent AMI and the number of households at those income levels. If there are more households
than available housing units, then households are forced to pay above or below their means for
their housing.

Housing - Severe Housing Cost Burden: This is a Federal term used to describe when more than




                                                T
50% of a household’s income is spent on housing costs. It is considered a severe cost burden on
an individual or family and it is a real problem for livability.
                             AF
Impact Fees: Impact fees are imposed by a local government. They are one-time charges on new
development to help raise revenue for expansion of public infrastructure and facilities
necessitated because of the development in order to maintain the existing level of public services
in the community. For example, impact fees can cover the costs of water systems, water rights,
wastewater systems, storm water control systems, roads, municipal power facilities, and public
safety facilities. These fees are regulated by the Utah State Legislature and require local
         R

government to ensure their proper implementation with a detailed fee study. "Impact fee" does
not mean a tax, a special assessment, a building permit fee, a hookup fee, a fee for project
improvements, or other reasonable permit or application fee.
        D


Low Income Housing Tax Credit Program (LIHTC): The LIHTC program was created in the Federal
Tax Reform Act of 1986. Developer-owners of LIHTC properties can claim credits against their
federal income tax liability. It can be used as an incentive for developers to invest in affordable
housing projects. There are also state run LIHTC programs and the concept is the same just run at
the state not federal level. The Utah Housing Corporation (UHC) was created in 1975 by Utah
legislation to serve a public purpose in creating an adequate supply of money with which
mortgage loans at reasonable interest rates could be made to help provide affordable housing
for low and moderate-income persons.

Market Rate Housing: This is housing offered by developers and owners at market prices, and
there are no rent restrictions on the unit. This housing rents or sells at market rate and is
developed and owned by for-profit individuals, partnerships or corporations. Most housing in
Utah is privately developed.


                           Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 61 of 74
Missing Middle Housing: “Missing middle” housing is a term used to describe small-scale, multi-
unit or clustered housing units in livable, walkable, urban communities. It can include anything
from duplexes, tri- and fourplexes, to courtyard housing and apartments.

Mixed Use Development: This type of development is characterized as pedestrian friendly
development that blends two or more residential, commercial, cultural, institutional, and/or
industrial uses. A mixed-use development may include retail space on the bottom floor of a high
rise, with offices and multi-family housing on the middle and top floors. Mixed use development
can bring a number of benefits to a city, including minimized infrastructure costs, increased sales
tax revenue, and increased property values.

Moderate Income Housing (MIH): means housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by
households with a gross household income equal to or less than 80% of the median gross income
for households of the same size in the municipality in which the housing is located (10-9a-
103(40)).

Monthly Housing Allowance: the maximum amount a household can spend on housing costs per




                                                T
month, including utilities and other fees. The monthly housing allowance represents the total
housing costs affordable at 30 percent of gross income. (Definition from ULCT “Housing Policy in
Utah” 2018).
                              AF
Olene Walker Housing Loan Fund (OWHLF): Created in 1987 by the State of Utah, the OWHLF
supports quality affordable housing options that meet the needs of Utah’s individuals and families.
The fund partners with public and private organizations to develop housing that is affordable for
moderate-income, low-income, and very low-income, and persons as defined by HUD.
         R
Owner-occupied: A housing unit that is occupied by the owner of the unit.

Renter-occupied: A housing unit that is occupied by someone other than the owner of the unit.
        D

State of Utah Land Use, Development, and Management Act (LUDMA): LUDMA authorizes and
governs land use and zoning regulation by cities and counties (CLUDMA) and establishes
mandatory requirements that local governments must follow. LUDMA establishes the legal
framework for each locality to make zoning decisions, enact ordinances, and implement plans.

Utah Department of Workforce Services (DWS): the state agency that consolidates employment
and public assistance programs to help people find jobs, to assist businesses in finding workforces,
and to support housing needs.




                           Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 62 of 74
References

Missing Middle Housing. (2022). The Types. Retrieved from missingmiddlehousing.com:
https://missingmiddlehousing.com/types

Salt Lake County Office of Regional Development. (2021). Consolidated Performance and
Evaluation Report. Salt Lake County.

U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. (2011, August 18). Glossary of Terms to
Affordable Housing. Retrieved from hud.gov:
https://archives.hud.gov/local/nv/goodstories/2006-04-06glos.cfm

Utah Department of Environmental Quality. (2022, August 9). Lead-Based Paint Program.
Retrieved from Utah.gov: https://deq.utah.gov/air-quality/lead-based-paint-
program#:~:text=Lead%2DBased%20Paint%20(LBP),that%20LBP%20is%20still%20present




                                              T
Raw Survey Results (2022)

   1. Right now, what is your most significant housing challenge? (En este momento,
                            AF
      ¿cuál es su desafío de vivienda más importante?)
         R
        D




                         Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 63 of 74
                                            T
                         AF
     R

2. Would you support the addition of accessory dwelling units, townhomes, courtyard
   housing, or mixed-use (apartments above storefronts) in your community if it
    D


   helped address housing choice and affordability? Why or why not? (¿Apoyaría la
   adición de unidades de vivienda accesorias, casas adosadas (townhomes), viviendas
   con patio central o de uso mixto (apartamentos sobre tiendas) en su comunidad si
   ayudará la selección de vivienda y la asequibilidad? ¿Por qué o por qué no?)

*The number following the comment indicates the number of times that comment was written.

Yes 3

Yes. The current housing market is unsustainable. While some may complain about lower
property values, the current focus on single-unit housing creates deeper socio-economic
divisions throughout communities. Kearns should be open to multi-unit and affordable
housing to absorb the exodus of young creative talents from around the valley as they search
for affordable housing. This could make Kearns a hub of creativity, innovation and ideas. While
single-family housing was the ideal in previous decades, the model is unsustainable, resulting


                       Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 64 of 74
in spaced-out communities. Using Daybreak as a model, which thrives on multi-unit
townhomes, you can clearly note the walkability and accessibility of the community. It is
vibrant and active and a magnet to young creative families. I would love to have arts and music
festivals in Kearns. In essence, denser housing will generate a more vibrant community that
would become a destination for residents of the valley and beyond. 1

Yes. We need more affordable housing and not everyone can live in a single family home.
    1

Yes. We are growing population, we need someplace for to house them all          1

Yes, we need more affordable housing options. 1

Yes, in moderation a mixed use neighborhood. 1

Yes, if it will help keep my mortgage down.        1

Yes, because it would grow our community. More taxes coming to us and building a decent




                                              T
shopping center and restaurants plaza. We have to go to outside our boundaries to get the
basics.    1
                          AF
Yes, as long as not to many apartments. Traffic is crazy as it is. 1

Yes! So long as it’s affordable and the stores aren’t price gouging too. The mixed use buildings
are necessary for those that don’t drive. 1

Yes people need homes they can afford 1

Yes I would. I believe everyone needs to be able to have a space of their own to live. Even if it
     R

is small. People on SSI cannot pay their rent. It's impossible for them to survive without help.
We need affordable housing. Newlyweds just starting out or singles just wanting their first
home. Shouldn't need 2 roomates to pay for a little studio apartment. I understand the
    D


burdens on schools etc but we need to find a way so they don't get shoved out on the streets.
    1

Yes but not if it displaces people. Maybe infill? 1

Yes because it will address the housing challenge.        1

Yes as it would provide additional housing, however no as I feel that those types of
communities bring competition in housing rates driving prices to increase. 1

Well i guess i would be for it if it helps those like me that need help to Afford to rent
somewhere to live 1

Townhomes I could handle, but absolutely no any mixed-use. I feel they would make the
community trashy. 1



                        Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 65 of 74
Sure. Housing is crazy expensive, and it’s hard for anyone to get a house unless they have tons
of family members move in with them. 1

Sure if they have done something with all the empty buildings we have standing noe 1

Sure if it will help people not be homeless       1

Sure as long as the construction was done well enough that you couldn't hear every word
from your neighbors through the walls. That's the biggest reason no one wants townhouse,
etc. Also, does you no good if your base prices are still 400k and up. 1

Only if they fix the infrastructure. Right now it can take me more than 15 minutes at certain
times of the day to get out of my neighborhood because of traffic. Adding more housing
without planning a way for people to get in and out is insane 1

Only if it’s low income housing. We are sick of blood sucking landlords and corporate owned
housing. 1




                                              T
ONLY if it was low income housing with a reasonable rent cap. And i don't mean "market rate"
  1
                          AF
Only if it cleaned up some of the areas that have gone to hell in a hand basket here. The yards
and houses are so not well kept in mostly all neighborhoods...and the shopping centers don't
look any better! 1

Not really without updating infrastructure. Power and internet services come to my ind as we
have many outages as it is.       1
     R
No. Would rather something community based. 1

No. We need to take care of the existing homes. Help fix up the homes we have and make
homes affordable for people to buy/rent 1
    D


No. Way to much traffic. If rentals you get trouble.     1

No. UT needs to stop building all of these unaffordable housing. It’s a waste of time and
money. We pay outrageous property taxes for crap services. Don’t need more added to my
taxes to offset the new buildings. 1

No. Traffic is awful enough.      1

No, we don’t need more building, we have enough housing in our community we just need to
be able to afford and fix the ones we have!  1

No, the spots they are trying to put them are NOT reasonable with the flow of how busy traffic
is. 1

No, it adds too much traffic and crime.   1


                       Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 66 of 74
No, I do not support more housing. We do not have enough roads to support the traffic we
already have. When are you going to address that issue?   1

No! There is too much traffic congestion in Kearns already!       1

no! no parking. traffic flow is a mess. poor enforcement of ordinance and law. too many failing
or struggling businesses now. non-existant public transportation. kearns is a DUMP and many
don’t care about taking care of yards or property. taxes are going up to fund stuff we don’t
need. parks on 4700 and 5400 are a JOKE. try having a family picnic along 5400. it’s poorly
maintained and unsafe next to a raceway road. 1

No I would not. We don’t need more buildings and housing we need the ability to afford &
maintain the houses we do have. 1

No because then there’s less places for houses. No one want more apartments.             1

No ,these are designed only for the owner to make lots of money on rent. Will do nothing to
improve my neighborhood.         1




                                              T
NO - Rentals have destroyed our neighborhood.             1
                          AF
Mixed-use. We need more storefronts.      1

Mixed-use housing only. We really really need more stores in our community. 1

In the quickest sense, higher populated areas correlate with higher crime rates. Increasing
density by putting people into smaller spaces does not have a positive trend when it comes
to safety and true quality. 1
      R

If they made it affordable for single parents or low income families then yes    1

If they are affordable. Like under 1400 a month for a 2 or 3 bedroom sure why not. But any
     D

more than that is more housing nobody can afford       1

If it was under $1k 1

I would support the idea if it was low income not listed as affordable. Also if plan was thought
through about the extra traffic and if it would bring more crime to my community. 1

I would if it helps lower rent and mortgage payments and is done tastefully.     1

I would hope that we could just afford to buy the homes that are already for sell here in Kearns.
    1

I would have to see infrastructure impact on specific plans.      1

I would be fine with it since it would bring in more tax revenue for our township while helping
out the housing. However rent needs to be controlled because it is ridiculously high for thise
that weren't lucky enough to buy when houses were still affordable. 1

                        Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 67 of 74
I don't want to say no but I feel like Kearns really needs to worry about getting resources to
the community that it already has first. For instance we are so worried about ordinance yet we
don't provide the tools such a genuine bulk day every month or dumpsters more than a split
second. Our streets still aren't lit up. We should be worrying about taking care of these simple
issues that are automatic to other cities. Also I believe Kearns has a right to get back all the
real estate that has been taken from bordering cities so we can use that funding to give back
to Kearns. For the most part anywhere there is commercial it's not Kearns anymore... We are
the most dense populated per demographic, yet we have very little commercial. So to go back
my answer is a yes and no.            1

Even when they say it's affordable housing it really is not. They my ake it difficult to get into
and raise your rent .     1

Accessory housing1

Absolutely, but only if our traffic flow can handle it!   1




                                              T
Townhomes.         1

Si. 1
                           AF
Porque no tiene uno privacidad, por los problemas de los vecinos.        1

Porque no hay suficiente privacidad y esto puede ocasionar problemas.            1

Para apoyar a las personas de bajos recursos o madres solteras.          1

Los apoyaría si no fueran los desarrolladores los que aumentan los alquileres y que los
      R
residentes no pueden pagar.    1

Claro que sí y la razón es por que pueden ser más económicos. 1
     D

3. What housing features are most important to you? (¿Qué características de la
   vivienda son más importantes para usted?)




                        Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 68 of 74
                     T
  AF
 R
D




Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 69 of 74
                                              T
                           AF
        R
       D


   4. What is one reasonable action you think your community could take in the next
      year to improve housing conditions and options? (¿Cuál es una acción razonable
      que cree que su comunidad podría tomar en el próximo año para mejorar las
      condiciones y opciones de vivienda?)

   *The number following the comment indicates the number of times that comment was written.

Zoning changes to turn empty businesses into housing, improved construction to make them
actually appealing.  1

Why do you force 3 answers for section 4 when my answer to section 3 was NO?? You need to
address the current issues before you go and add more problems in the mix.   1


                         Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 70 of 74
Well lit wider streets. More police presence. 1

We need more single family housing and clearing out unused space. Townhomes, condos, and
single family houses that are affordable for the area we live in. We don’t have a whole lot of
restaurants or shopping IN Kearns. We have to travel outside of Kearns boundaries to shop and
eat.    1

We need more community involvement and presence from police. They need to be present and
visible more often. The game of gunshot or fireworks is old. There’s empty fields that can be
used for the mixed housing off of 56th W near Holiday. Zone that long strip of land for mixed
community use. Use it for affordable senior or disabled housing. The one near Walgreens is NOT
affordable.    1

True affordable housing. I have never seen my rent go up so much. Every year now it goes up.
My rent is more than my paycheck and I work full-time for the state of Utah. They raise my rent
and my house is trash. Broken windows, missing windows, no AC, old water heater, walls falling
apart, etc etc and nothing is being done.   1




                                                  T
Taking care of yards. Not letting people use their homes as a construction business are. There
are several around Kearns. 1
                              AF
Stop increasing property taxes for stuff that doesn’t benefit the home owners. Enforce no street
parking, during winter.      1

Stop building expensive ass apartments no one can afford and driving up the price of rent!
       1
         R
Safety 1

Rules not to allow selling stuff on sidewalks or in public parks, rules on living in campers or cars
on streets in neighborhoods. 1
        D


Rent control   1

Provision for ADUs     1

Pet freindly   1

People cleaning up their yard and improve the look and safety of Kearns. 1

Outlaw corporate owned houses that raise prices and are often just rentals or Airbnb only
homes. 1

Offer help buying a home.      1

Obtain more funding to address the housing problems, not only in Kearns, but anywhere in
Utah. 1



                            Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 71 of 74
Not sure, maybe stop developers and flippers buy homes up and let the market make them
affordable.   1

Making our current neighborhood clean and upkeep is important To attract home buyers with
same ambitions.      1

Making home we already have here that are run down and for sale affordable for someone to
buy and fix up 1

Make rental homeowners keep up their yards and property 1

Lower taxes    1

Less government and coding enforcement involvement, things are tough for people as is.
Provide access to materials for people to do upkeep on their home and yards  1

Less government and code enforcement and more access to funding to help with repairs and
maintenance. 1




                                               T
Insure development has infrastructure including off street parking. 1

I don’t think the community has any control over roads. Stop building until there are better or
                             AF
they reconfigure lights so neighborhoods aren’t cut off    1

High capacity low income housing.    1

Helping those in older homes with upgrades to maintain their homes by providing resources in
where to get help.    1
         R
Giving help to single parent families or low income housing parents.give help when needed to
these types of at least making it affordable housing without taking corners and make the places
look like trashy places 1
        D


Give the community more resources when it comes to ordinance (giving out free vouchers to
take trash to the dump isn't enough). As well as lighting up our neighborhoods with the new
Street lamps, not just new bulbs.. new Street posts! This is a start. 1

Get some enforcement on parking! There are so many cars parked on the streets, it is hard to
see when you are at stop signs!   1

Funding to add accessory house to my property.      1

Funding opportunities.        1

Funding opportunities, off street parking for neighbors     1

Funding opportunities to upgrade the current homes that are older in the area.     1

Funding oppertunitiy 1


                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 72 of 74
Fund and or support repairs and improvements to existing houses. 1

Frustrated that planning commission waited so long to do anything on 4715 South. Now
everyone wants to move and can't afford to. Before they were taking the houses now their not.
People are racing down the street and running the lights it's going to be very dangerous for the
bicyclists which it was supposed why we were doing it in the first place. Then we can't park on
the street anymore some people further east from us have no where else to park. It doesn't
make sense. The project committee didn't listen to us they had already made up their minds.
        1

Form-based zoning and human scaled mid-density housing along 5400S 1

Find a way to build affordable cost efficient housing that can accommodate the housing
demands without affecting price per unit       1

Enforcing the laws regarding parking. Too many people park on the streets and it makes it
difficult to even drive down the street. People need to quit doing their "garage car repairs" out




                                                 T
in the street. Enforce yard cleanup. 1

Do something with those empty buildings they are just sitting there going to rot 1
                             AF
Convert the warehouse on 47th and 56th into mixed used housing. Improves the housing and
the availability of new stores. Keep taxes low and keep it affordable. 1

clean up the garbage. kearns is a dump.      1

Change in zoning to allow more housing options such as multi-unit buildings, townhomes,
multi-use/mixed-use buildings. Creation of urban centers that can germinate an arts culture.
         R

Performing arts spaces. Spaces for theatre. Greater walkability. Multi-modal infrastructure.
Greenways that allow safe bike transit. Reduction of parking lots that become heat centers.
       1
        D


Building new units would certainly help      1

Build smaller homes to make it affordable for more to own/rent a home       1

Better public transportation from suburbs to downtown.       1

Better assistance with things like "Flip your strip" incentives. Other incentives to repave
sidewalks, etc... Code enforcement I believe is a heavy priority. Kearns as of right now does not
have enough officers to respond to anything lower than moderately dangerous calls how can
they help enforce any of the rules, or codes put forth if they don't have time to respond to
current code violations?       1

Anything that will help with affordable housing. My husband and I make pretty good money and
can't afford to rent a house or an apartment. Alot of the ones that are reasonably prices have
income restrictions. So most people do not qualify. 1

                           Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 73 of 74
?      1

Oportunidades de financiamiento.     2

Mejorar en el aspecto del area, que sea mas limpio y ordenado. Muchos carros en la calle de la
ciudad estacionados. 1

Creo que debería haber una ley que impida a las empresas comprar casas y venderlas para
alquilarlas. O una ley que impida que la renta suba demasiado. 1

Bajar los intereses de las casas para que mas personas tengan oportunidad de agarrar casa.
        1

Ayuda financiera      1




                                               T
                            AF
         R
        D




                          Public Hearing Draft: Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan | Page 74 of 74
                                                   Exhibit 2


       Enrolled Copy                                                                          H.B. 462

1                    UTAH HOUSING AFFORDABILITY AMENDMENTS
 2                                           2022 GENERAL SESSION
 3                                                STATE OF UTAH
 4                                    Chief Sponsor: Steve Waldrip
 5                                 Senate Sponsor: Jacob L. Anderegg
 6
 7   LONG TITLE
 8   General Description:
 9          This bill modifies provisions related to affordable housing and the provision of services
10   related to affordable housing.
11   Highlighted Provisions:
12          This bill:
13          < defines terms;
14          < requires certain political subdivisions to adopt an implementation plan as part of the
15   moderate income housing element of the political subdivision's general plan;
16          < modifies the list of strategies that a political subdivision may select, or are required
17   to select, for implementation as part of the moderate income housing element of the
18   political subdivision's general plan;
19          < requires certain municipalities to develop and adopt station area plans for specified
20   areas surrounding public transit stations;
21          < requires certain political subdivisions to amend the political subdivision's general
22   plan by a specified date if the general plan does not include certain provisions
23   related to moderate income housing;
24          < modifies requirements for a political subdivision's annual moderate income housing
25   report to the Housing and Community Development Division (division) within the
26   Department of Workforce Services (department);
27          < allows a political subdivision to have priority consideration for certain funds or
28   projects if the political subdivision demonstrates plans to implement a certain
29   number of moderate income housing strategies;
       H.B. 462                                                                          Enrolled Copy
30            < prohibits a political subdivision from receiving certain funds if the political
31   subdivision fails to comply with moderate income housing reporting requirements;
32            < prohibits a political subdivision from imposing impact fees for the construction of
33   certain internal accessory dwelling units;
34            < requires the Point of the Mountain State Land Authority to consult with the Unified
35   Economic Opportunity Commission in planning the development of the point of the
36   mountain state land;
37            < modifies requirements for a public transit district to participate in a transit-oriented
38   development;
39            < requires certain counties to prepare and submit a proposal to create a housing and
40   transit reinvestment zone by a specified date;
41            < modifies local referenda signature requirements for local land use laws that relate to
42   the use of land within certain transit areas;
43            < limits the referability to voters of local land use laws that relate to the use of land
44   within certain transit areas;
45            < requires the division to develop a statewide database of moderate income housing
46   units;
47            < requires the division to develop a methodology for determining whether a political
48   subdivision is complying with certain moderate income housing requirements, to be
49   submitted to and approved by the Commission on Housing Affordability by a
50   certain date;
51            < modifies the membership of the Olene Walker Housing Loan Fund Board;
52            < requires an entity that receives any money from the Olene Walker Housing Loan
53   Fund after a certain date to provide an annual accounting to the department;
54            < repeals certain limits on the amount of money the department may distribute from
55   the Economic Revitalization and Investment Fund;
56            < establishes the Rural Housing Fund, to be used by the division to provide loans for
57   certain moderate income housing projects in rural areas;




                                                       -2-
       Enrolled Copy                                                                           H.B. 462
58          < allows the department to use a certain amount of money from specified funds to
59   offset administrative costs;
60          < allows the Private Activity Bond Review Board to transfer certain unused allotment
61   account funds to any other allotment account, and exempts such funds from certain
62   set aside requirements;
63          < allows state entities, in addition to political subdivisions, to grant real property for
64   certain developments that include moderate income housing;
65          < allows the Governor's Office of Economic Opportunity to use funds from the
66   Industrial Assistance Account to provide financial assistance to entities offering
67   technical assistance to municipalities for planning; and
68          < makes technical and conforming changes.
69   Money Appropriated in this Bill:
70          This bill appropriates in fiscal year 2023:
71          < to Department of Workforce Services -- Housing and Community Development, as
72   a one-time appropriation:
73              C     from the General Fund, $500,000;
74          < to Department of Workforce Services -- Housing and Community Development, as
75   a one-time appropriation:
76              C     from the General Fund, $750,000;
77          < to Department of Workforce Services -- Administration, as an ongoing
78   appropriation:
79              C     from the General Fund, $132,000;
80          < to Department of Workforce Services -- Housing and Community Development, as
81   a one-time appropriation:
82              C     from the General Fund, $250,000; and
83          < to Department of Workforce Services -- Housing and Community Development, as
84   a one-time appropriation:
85              C     from the General Fund, $250,000.




                                                     -3-
       H.B. 462                                                                  Enrolled Copy
 86   Other Special Clauses:
 87         This bill provides a special effective date.
 88         This bill provides a coordination clause.
 89   Utah Code Sections Affected:
 90   AMENDS:
 91         10-9a-103, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2021, Chapters 140 and 385
 92         10-9a-401, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2021, First Special Session, Chapter 3
 93         10-9a-403, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2021, First Special Session, Chapter 3
 94         10-9a-404, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2021, First Special Session, Chapter 3
 95         10-9a-408, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2021, First Special Session, Chapter 3
 96         10-9a-509, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2021, Chapters 140 and 385
 97         11-36a-202, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2021, Chapter 35
 98         11-59-203, as enacted by Laws of Utah 2018, Chapter 388
 99         17-27a-103, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2021, Chapters 140, 363, and 385
100         17-27a-401, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2021, Chapter 363
101         17-27a-403, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2021, First Special Session, Chapter 3
102         17-27a-404, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2021, Chapters 84, 345, and 355
103         17-27a-408, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2020, Chapter 434
104         17-27a-508, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2021, Chapters 140 and 385
105         17B-2a-802, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2020, Chapter 377
106         17B-2a-804, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2020, Fifth Special Session, Chapter 4
107         20A-7-601, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2021, Chapter 140
108         20A-7-602.8, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2021, Chapter 418
109         35A-8-101, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2021, Chapter 281
110         35A-8-503, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2019, Chapter 327
111         35A-8-504, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2020, Chapter 241
112         35A-8-507.5, as enacted by Laws of Utah 2021, Chapter 333
113         35A-8-508, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2014, Chapter 371




                                                     -4-
        Enrolled Copy                                                                       H.B. 462
114          35A-8-509, as enacted by Laws of Utah 2017, Chapter 279
115          35A-8-510, as enacted by Laws of Utah 2017, Chapter 279
116          35A-8-511, as enacted by Laws of Utah 2017, Chapter 279
117          35A-8-512, as enacted by Laws of Utah 2017, Chapter 279
118          35A-8-513, as enacted by Laws of Utah 2017, Chapter 279
119          35A-8-803, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2019, Chapter 327
120          35A-8-2105, as renumbered and amended by Laws of Utah 2018, Chapter 182
121          35A-8-2106, as renumbered and amended by Laws of Utah 2018, Chapter 182
122          35A-8-2203, as enacted by Laws of Utah 2018, Chapter 392
123          63J-4-802, as enacted by Laws of Utah 2021, First Special Session, Chapter 4
124          63N-3-603, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2021, First Special Session, Chapter 3
125          72-1-304, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2021, Chapters 239, 239, 411, and 411
126          72-2-124, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2021, Chapters 239, 387, and 411
127   ENACTS:
128          10-9a-403.1, Utah Code Annotated 1953
129          35A-8-509.5, Utah Code Annotated 1953
130          63L-12-101, Utah Code Annotated 1953
131          63N-3-113, Utah Code Annotated 1953
132   RENUMBERS AND AMENDS:
133          63L-12-102, (Renumbered from 10-8-501, as enacted by Laws of Utah 2021, Chapter
134   333)
135   Utah Code Sections Affected by Coordination Clause:
136          10-9a-403, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2021, First Special Session, Chapter 3
137
138   Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
139          Section 1. Section 10-9a-103 is amended to read:
140          10-9a-103. Definitions.
141          As used in this chapter:




                                                      -5-
        H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
142          (1) "Accessory dwelling unit" means a habitable living unit added to, created within, or
143   detached from a primary single-family dwelling and contained on one lot.
144          (2) "Adversely affected party" means a person other than a land use applicant who:
145          (a) owns real property adjoining the property that is the subject of a land use
146   application or land use decision; or
147          (b) will suffer a damage different in kind than, or an injury distinct from, that of the
148   general community as a result of the land use decision.
149          (3) "Affected entity" means a county, municipality, local district, special service
150   district under Title 17D, Chapter 1, Special Service District Act, school district, interlocal
151   cooperation entity established under Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, specified
152   public utility, property owner, property owners association, or the Utah Department of
153   Transportation, if:
154          (a) the entity's services or facilities are likely to require expansion or significant
155   modification because of an intended use of land;
156          (b) the entity has filed with the municipality a copy of the entity's general or long-range
157   plan; or
158          (c) the entity has filed with the municipality a request for notice during the same
159   calendar year and before the municipality provides notice to an affected entity in compliance
160   with a requirement imposed under this chapter.
161          (4) "Affected owner" means the owner of real property that is:
162          (a) a single project;
163          (b) the subject of a land use approval that sponsors of a referendum timely challenged
164   in accordance with Subsection 20A-7-601[(5)](6); and
165          (c) determined to be legally referable under Section 20A-7-602.8.
166          (5) "Appeal authority" means the person, board, commission, agency, or other body
167   designated by ordinance to decide an appeal of a decision of a land use application or a
168   variance.
169          (6) "Billboard" means a freestanding ground sign located on industrial, commercial, or




                                                       -6-
        Enrolled Copy                                                                             H.B. 462
170   residential property if the sign is designed or intended to direct attention to a business, product,
171   or service that is not sold, offered, or existing on the property where the sign is located.
172           (7) (a) "Charter school" means:
173           (i) an operating charter school;
174           (ii) a charter school applicant that a charter school authorizer approves in accordance
175   with Title 53G, Chapter 5, Part 3, Charter School Authorization; or
176           (iii) an entity that is working on behalf of a charter school or approved charter
177   applicant to develop or construct a charter school building.
178           (b) "Charter school" does not include a therapeutic school.
179           (8) "Conditional use" means a land use that, because of the unique characteristics or
180   potential impact of the land use on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent land
181   uses, may not be compatible in some areas or may be compatible only if certain conditions are
182   required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts.
183           (9) "Constitutional taking" means a governmental action that results in a taking of
184   private property so that compensation to the owner of the property is required by the:
185           (a) Fifth or Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States; or
186           (b) Utah Constitution Article I, Section 22.
187           (10) "Culinary water authority" means the department, agency, or public entity with
188   responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the culinary water system and sources for
189   the subject property.
190           (11) "Development activity" means:
191           (a) any construction or expansion of a building, structure, or use that creates additional
192   demand and need for public facilities;
193           (b) any change in use of a building or structure that creates additional demand and need
194   for public facilities; or
195           (c) any change in the use of land that creates additional demand and need for public
196   facilities.
197           (12) (a) "Development agreement" means a written agreement or amendment to a




                                                       -7-
        H.B. 462                                                                        Enrolled Copy
198   written agreement between a municipality and one or more parties that regulates or controls the
199   use or development of a specific area of land.
200          (b) "Development agreement" does not include an improvement completion assurance.
201          (13) (a) "Disability" means a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits
202   one or more of a person's major life activities, including a person having a record of such an
203   impairment or being regarded as having such an impairment.
204          (b) "Disability" does not include current illegal use of, or addiction to, any federally
205   controlled substance, as defined in Section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C.
206   802.
207          (14) "Educational facility":
208          (a) means:
209          (i) a school district's building at which pupils assemble to receive instruction in a
210   program for any combination of grades from preschool through grade 12, including
211   kindergarten and a program for children with disabilities;
212          (ii) a structure or facility:
213          (A) located on the same property as a building described in Subsection (14)(a)(i); and
214          (B) used in support of the use of that building; and
215          (iii) a building to provide office and related space to a school district's administrative
216   personnel; and
217          (b) does not include:
218          (i) land or a structure, including land or a structure for inventory storage, equipment
219   storage, food processing or preparing, vehicle storage or maintenance, or similar use that is:
220          (A) not located on the same property as a building described in Subsection (14)(a)(i);
221   and
222          (B) used in support of the purposes of a building described in Subsection (14)(a)(i); or
223          (ii) a therapeutic school.
224          (15) "Fire authority" means the department, agency, or public entity with responsibility
225   to review and approve the feasibility of fire protection and suppression services for the subject




                                                       -8-
        Enrolled Copy                                                                           H.B. 462
226   property.
227           (16) "Flood plain" means land that:
228           (a) is within the 100-year flood plain designated by the Federal Emergency
229   Management Agency; or
230           (b) has not been studied or designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
231   but presents a likelihood of experiencing chronic flooding or a catastrophic flood event because
232   the land has characteristics that are similar to those of a 100-year flood plain designated by the
233   Federal Emergency Management Agency.
234           (17) "General plan" means a document that a municipality adopts that sets forth general
235   guidelines for proposed future development of the land within the municipality.
236           (18) "Geologic hazard" means:
237           (a) a surface fault rupture;
238           (b) shallow groundwater;
239           (c) liquefaction;
240           (d) a landslide;
241           (e) a debris flow;
242           (f) unstable soil;
243           (g) a rock fall; or
244           (h) any other geologic condition that presents a risk:
245           (i) to life;
246           (ii) of substantial loss of real property; or
247           (iii) of substantial damage to real property.
248           (19) "Historic preservation authority" means a person, board, commission, or other
249   body designated by a legislative body to:
250           (a) recommend land use regulations to preserve local historic districts or areas; and
251           (b) administer local historic preservation land use regulations within a local historic
252   district or area.
253           (20) "Hookup fee" means a fee for the installation and inspection of any pipe, line,




                                                        -9-
        H.B. 462                                                                        Enrolled Copy
254   meter, or appurtenance that connects to a municipal water, sewer, storm water, power, or other
255   utility system.
256           (21) "Identical plans" means building plans submitted to a municipality that:
257           (a) are clearly marked as "identical plans";
258           (b) are substantially identical to building plans that were previously submitted to and
259   reviewed and approved by the municipality; and
260           (c) describe a building that:
261           (i) is located on land zoned the same as the land on which the building described in the
262   previously approved plans is located;
263           (ii) is subject to the same geological and meteorological conditions and the same law
264   as the building described in the previously approved plans;
265           (iii) has a floor plan identical to the building plan previously submitted to and reviewed
266   and approved by the municipality; and
267           (iv) does not require any additional engineering or analysis.
268           (22) "Impact fee" means a payment of money imposed under Title 11, Chapter 36a,
269   Impact Fees Act.
270           (23) "Improvement completion assurance" means a surety bond, letter of credit,
271   financial institution bond, cash, assignment of rights, lien, or other equivalent security required
272   by a municipality to guaranty the proper completion of landscaping or an infrastructure
273   improvement required as a condition precedent to:
274           (a) recording a subdivision plat; or
275           (b) development of a commercial, industrial, mixed use, or multifamily project.
276           (24) "Improvement warranty" means an applicant's unconditional warranty that the
277   applicant's installed and accepted landscaping or infrastructure improvement:
278           (a) complies with the municipality's written standards for design, materials, and
279   workmanship; and
280           (b) will not fail in any material respect, as a result of poor workmanship or materials,
281   within the improvement warranty period.




                                                      - 10 -
        Enrolled Copy                                                                            H.B. 462
282           (25) "Improvement warranty period" means a period:
283           (a) no later than one year after a municipality's acceptance of required landscaping; or
284           (b) no later than one year after a municipality's acceptance of required infrastructure,
285   unless the municipality:
286           (i) determines for good cause that a one-year period would be inadequate to protect the
287   public health, safety, and welfare; and
288           (ii) has substantial evidence, on record:
289           (A) of prior poor performance by the applicant; or
290           (B) that the area upon which the infrastructure will be constructed contains suspect soil
291   and the municipality has not otherwise required the applicant to mitigate the suspect soil.
292           (26) "Infrastructure improvement" means permanent infrastructure that is essential for
293   the public health and safety or that:
294           (a) is required for human occupation; and
295           (b) an applicant must install:
296           (i) in accordance with published installation and inspection specifications for public
297   improvements; and
298           (ii) whether the improvement is public or private, as a condition of:
299           (A) recording a subdivision plat;
300           (B) obtaining a building permit; or
301           (C) development of a commercial, industrial, mixed use, condominium, or multifamily
302   project.
303           (27) "Internal lot restriction" means a platted note, platted demarcation, or platted
304   designation that:
305           (a) runs with the land; and
306           (b) (i) creates a restriction that is enclosed within the perimeter of a lot described on
307   the plat; or
308           (ii) designates a development condition that is enclosed within the perimeter of a lot
309   described on the plat.




                                                      - 11 -
        H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
310          (28) "Land use applicant" means a property owner, or the property owner's designee,
311   who submits a land use application regarding the property owner's land.
312          (29) "Land use application":
313          (a) means an application that is:
314          (i) required by a municipality; and
315          (ii) submitted by a land use applicant to obtain a land use decision; and
316          (b) does not mean an application to enact, amend, or repeal a land use regulation.
317          (30) "Land use authority" means:
318          (a) a person, board, commission, agency, or body, including the local legislative body,
319   designated by the local legislative body to act upon a land use application; or
320          (b) if the local legislative body has not designated a person, board, commission,
321   agency, or body, the local legislative body.
322          (31) "Land use decision" means an administrative decision of a land use authority or
323   appeal authority regarding:
324          (a) a land use permit;
325          (b) a land use application; or
326          (c) the enforcement of a land use regulation, land use permit, or development
327   agreement.
328          (32) "Land use permit" means a permit issued by a land use authority.
329          (33) "Land use regulation":
330          (a) means a legislative decision enacted by ordinance, law, code, map, resolution,
331   specification, fee, or rule that governs the use or development of land;
332          (b) includes the adoption or amendment of a zoning map or the text of the zoning code;
333   and
334          (c) does not include:
335          (i) a land use decision of the legislative body acting as the land use authority, even if
336   the decision is expressed in a resolution or ordinance; or
337          (ii) a temporary revision to an engineering specification that does not materially:




                                                     - 12 -
        Enrolled Copy                                                                            H.B. 462
338           (A) increase a land use applicant's cost of development compared to the existing
339   specification; or
340           (B) impact a land use applicant's use of land.
341           (34) "Legislative body" means the municipal council.
342           (35) "Local district" means an entity under Title 17B, Limited Purpose Local
343   Government Entities - Local Districts, and any other governmental or quasi-governmental
344   entity that is not a county, municipality, school district, or the state.
345           (36) "Local historic district or area" means a geographically definable area that:
346           (a) contains any combination of buildings, structures, sites, objects, landscape features,
347   archeological sites, or works of art that contribute to the historic preservation goals of a
348   legislative body; and
349           (b) is subject to land use regulations to preserve the historic significance of the local
350   historic district or area.
351           (37) "Lot" means a tract of land, regardless of any label, that is created by and shown
352   on a subdivision plat that has been recorded in the office of the county recorder.
353           (38) (a) "Lot line adjustment" means a relocation of a lot line boundary between
354   adjoining lots or between a lot and adjoining parcels in accordance with Section 10-9a-608:
355           (i) whether or not the lots are located in the same subdivision; and
356           (ii) with the consent of the owners of record.
357           (b) "Lot line adjustment" does not mean a new boundary line that:
358           (i) creates an additional lot; or
359           (ii) constitutes a subdivision.
360           (c) "Lot line adjustment" does not include a boundary line adjustment made by the
361   Department of Transportation.
362           (39) "Major transit investment corridor" means public transit service that uses or
363   occupies:
364           (a) public transit rail right-of-way;
365           (b) dedicated road right-of-way for the use of public transit, such as bus rapid transit;




                                                        - 13 -
        H.B. 462                                                                        Enrolled Copy
366   or
367          (c) fixed-route bus corridors subject to an interlocal agreement or contract between a
368   municipality or county and:
369          (i) a public transit district as defined in Section 17B-2a-802; or
370          (ii) an eligible political subdivision as defined in Section 59-12-2219.
371          (40) "Moderate income housing" means housing occupied or reserved for occupancy
372   by households with a gross household income equal to or less than 80% of the median gross
373   income for households of the same size in the county in which the city is located.
374          (41) "Municipal utility easement" means an easement that:
375          (a) is created or depicted on a plat recorded in a county recorder's office and is
376   described as a municipal utility easement granted for public use;
377          (b) is not a protected utility easement or a public utility easement as defined in Section
378   54-3-27;
379          (c) the municipality or the municipality's affiliated governmental entity uses and
380   occupies to provide a utility service, including sanitary sewer, culinary water, electrical, storm
381   water, or communications or data lines;
382          (d) is used or occupied with the consent of the municipality in accordance with an
383   authorized franchise or other agreement;
384          (e) (i) is used or occupied by a specified public utility in accordance with an authorized
385   franchise or other agreement; and
386          (ii) is located in a utility easement granted for public use; or
387          (f) is described in Section 10-9a-529 and is used by a specified public utility.
388          (42) "Nominal fee" means a fee that reasonably reimburses a municipality only for time
389   spent and expenses incurred in:
390          (a) verifying that building plans are identical plans; and
391          (b) reviewing and approving those minor aspects of identical plans that differ from the
392   previously reviewed and approved building plans.
393          (43) "Noncomplying structure" means a structure that:




                                                      - 14 -
        Enrolled Copy                                                                          H.B. 462
394           (a) legally existed before the structure's current land use designation; and
395           (b) because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does not conform
396   to the setback, height restrictions, or other regulations, excluding those regulations, which
397   govern the use of land.
398           (44) "Nonconforming use" means a use of land that:
399           (a) legally existed before its current land use designation;
400           (b) has been maintained continuously since the time the land use ordinance governing
401   the land changed; and
402           (c) because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does not conform
403   to the regulations that now govern the use of the land.
404           (45) "Official map" means a map drawn by municipal authorities and recorded in a
405   county recorder's office that:
406           (a) shows actual and proposed rights-of-way, centerline alignments, and setbacks for
407   highways and other transportation facilities;
408           (b) provides a basis for restricting development in designated rights-of-way or between
409   designated setbacks to allow the government authorities time to purchase or otherwise reserve
410   the land; and
411           (c) has been adopted as an element of the municipality's general plan.
412           (46) "Parcel" means any real property that is not a lot.
413           (47) (a) "Parcel boundary adjustment" means a recorded agreement between owners of
414   adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary, either by deed or by a boundary line
415   agreement in accordance with Section 10-9a-524, if no additional parcel is created and:
416           (i) none of the property identified in the agreement is a lot; or
417           (ii) the adjustment is to the boundaries of a single person's parcels.
418           (b) "Parcel boundary adjustment" does not mean an adjustment of a parcel boundary
419   line that:
420           (i) creates an additional parcel; or
421           (ii) constitutes a subdivision.




                                                      - 15 -
        H.B. 462                                                                       Enrolled Copy
422          (c) "Parcel boundary adjustment" does not include a boundary line adjustment made by
423   the Department of Transportation.
424          (48) "Person" means an individual, corporation, partnership, organization, association,
425   trust, governmental agency, or any other legal entity.
426          (49) "Plan for moderate income housing" means a written document adopted by a
427   municipality's legislative body that includes:
428          (a) an estimate of the existing supply of moderate income housing located within the
429   municipality;
430          (b) an estimate of the need for moderate income housing in the municipality for the
431   next five years;
432          (c) a survey of total residential land use;
433          (d) an evaluation of how existing land uses and zones affect opportunities for moderate
434   income housing; and
435          (e) a description of the municipality's program to encourage an adequate supply of
436   moderate income housing.
437          (50) "Plat" means an instrument subdividing property into lots as depicted on a map or
438   other graphical representation of lands that a licensed professional land surveyor makes and
439   prepares in accordance with Section 10-9a-603 or 57-8-13.
440          (51) "Potential geologic hazard area" means an area that:
441          (a) is designated by a Utah Geological Survey map, county geologist map, or other
442   relevant map or report as needing further study to determine the area's potential for geologic
443   hazard; or
444          (b) has not been studied by the Utah Geological Survey or a county geologist but
445   presents the potential of geologic hazard because the area has characteristics similar to those of
446   a designated geologic hazard area.
447          (52) "Public agency" means:
448          (a) the federal government;
449          (b) the state;




                                                       - 16 -
        Enrolled Copy                                                                              H.B. 462
450           (c) a county, municipality, school district, local district, special service district, or other
451   political subdivision of the state; or
452           (d) a charter school.
453           (53) "Public hearing" means a hearing at which members of the public are provided a
454   reasonable opportunity to comment on the subject of the hearing.
455           (54) "Public meeting" means a meeting that is required to be open to the public under
456   Title 52, Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings Act.
457           (55) "Public street" means a public right-of-way, including a public highway, public
458   avenue, public boulevard, public parkway, public road, public lane, public alley, public
459   viaduct, public subway, public tunnel, public bridge, public byway, other public transportation
460   easement, or other public way.
461           (56) "Receiving zone" means an area of a municipality that the municipality
462   designates, by ordinance, as an area in which an owner of land may receive a transferable
463   development right.
464           (57) "Record of survey map" means a map of a survey of land prepared in accordance
465   with Section 10-9a-603, 17-23-17, 17-27a-603, or 57-8-13.
466           (58) "Residential facility for persons with a disability" means a residence:
467           (a) in which more than one person with a disability resides; and
468           (b) (i) which is licensed or certified by the Department of Human Services under Title
469   62A, Chapter 2, Licensure of Programs and Facilities; or
470           (ii) which is licensed or certified by the Department of Health under Title 26, Chapter
471   21, Health Care Facility Licensing and Inspection Act.
472           (59) "Rules of order and procedure" means a set of rules that govern and prescribe in a
473   public meeting:
474           (a) parliamentary order and procedure;
475           (b) ethical behavior; and
476           (c) civil discourse.
477           (60) "Sanitary sewer authority" means the department, agency, or public entity with




                                                       - 17 -
        H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
478   responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of sanitary sewer services or onsite
479   wastewater systems.
480            (61) "Sending zone" means an area of a municipality that the municipality designates,
481   by ordinance, as an area from which an owner of land may transfer a transferable development
482   right.
483            (62) "Specified public agency" means:
484            (a) the state;
485            (b) a school district; or
486            (c) a charter school.
487            (63) "Specified public utility" means an electrical corporation, gas corporation, or
488   telephone corporation, as those terms are defined in Section 54-2-1.
489            (64) "State" includes any department, division, or agency of the state.
490            (65) (a) "Subdivision" means any land that is divided, resubdivided, or proposed to be
491   divided into two or more lots or other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or
492   future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on the installment plan or upon any and all
493   other plans, terms, and conditions.
494            (b) "Subdivision" includes:
495            (i) the division or development of land, whether by deed, metes and bounds
496   description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded instrument, regardless of whether
497   the division includes all or a portion of a parcel or lot; and
498            (ii) except as provided in Subsection (65)(c), divisions of land for residential and
499   nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for commercial, agricultural, and
500   industrial purposes.
501            (c) "Subdivision" does not include:
502            (i) a bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the purpose of joining one of
503   the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel of unsubdivided agricultural land, if
504   neither the resulting combined parcel nor the parcel remaining from the division or partition
505   violates an applicable land use ordinance;




                                                       - 18 -
        Enrolled Copy                                                                         H.B. 462
506          (ii) a boundary line agreement recorded with the county recorder's office between
507   owners of adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary in accordance with Section
508   10-9a-524 if no new parcel is created;
509          (iii) a recorded document, executed by the owner of record:
510          (A) revising the legal descriptions of multiple parcels into one legal description
511   encompassing all such parcels; or
512          (B) joining a lot to a parcel;
513          (iv) a boundary line agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided properties
514   adjusting the mutual lot line boundary in accordance with Sections 10-9a-524 and 10-9a-608 if:
515          (A) no new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from the adjustment; and
516          (B) the adjustment will not violate any applicable land use ordinance;
517          (v) a bona fide division of land by deed or other instrument if the deed or other
518   instrument states in writing that the division:
519          (A) is in anticipation of future land use approvals on the parcel or parcels;
520          (B) does not confer any land use approvals; and
521          (C) has not been approved by the land use authority;
522          (vi) a parcel boundary adjustment;
523          (vii) a lot line adjustment;
524          (viii) a road, street, or highway dedication plat;
525          (ix) a deed or easement for a road, street, or highway purpose; or
526          (x) any other division of land authorized by law.
527          (66) "Subdivision amendment" means an amendment to a recorded subdivision in
528   accordance with Section 10-9a-608 that:
529          (a) vacates all or a portion of the subdivision;
530          (b) alters the outside boundary of the subdivision;
531          (c) changes the number of lots within the subdivision;
532          (d) alters a public right-of-way, a public easement, or public infrastructure within the
533   subdivision; or




                                                        - 19 -
       H.B. 462                                                                        Enrolled Copy
534          (e) alters a common area or other common amenity within the subdivision.
535          (67) "Substantial evidence" means evidence that:
536          (a) is beyond a scintilla; and
537          (b) a reasonable mind would accept as adequate to support a conclusion.
538          (68) "Suspect soil" means soil that has:
539          (a) a high susceptibility for volumetric change, typically clay rich, having more than a
540   3% swell potential;
541          (b) bedrock units with high shrink or swell susceptibility; or
542          (c) gypsiferous silt and clay, gypsum, or bedrock units containing abundant gypsum
543   commonly associated with dissolution and collapse features.
544          (69) "Therapeutic school" means a residential group living facility:
545          (a) for four or more individuals who are not related to:
546          (i) the owner of the facility; or
547          (ii) the primary service provider of the facility;
548          (b) that serves students who have a history of failing to function:
549          (i) at home;
550          (ii) in a public school; or
551          (iii) in a nonresidential private school; and
552          (c) that offers:
553          (i) room and board; and
554          (ii) an academic education integrated with:
555          (A) specialized structure and supervision; or
556          (B) services or treatment related to a disability, an emotional development, a
557   behavioral development, a familial development, or a social development.
558          (70) "Transferable development right" means a right to develop and use land that
559   originates by an ordinance that authorizes a land owner in a designated sending zone to transfer
560   land use rights from a designated sending zone to a designated receiving zone.
561          (71) "Unincorporated" means the area outside of the incorporated area of a city or




                                                     - 20 -
        Enrolled Copy                                                                            H.B. 462
562   town.
563           (72) "Water interest" means any right to the beneficial use of water, including:
564           (a) each of the rights listed in Section 73-1-11; and
565           (b) an ownership interest in the right to the beneficial use of water represented by:
566           (i) a contract; or
567           (ii) a share in a water company, as defined in Section 73-3-3.5.
568           (73) "Zoning map" means a map, adopted as part of a land use ordinance, that depicts
569   land use zones, overlays, or districts.
570           Section 2. Section 10-9a-401 is amended to read:
571           10-9a-401. General plan required -- Content.
572           (1) In order to accomplish the purposes of this chapter, each municipality shall prepare
573   and adopt a comprehensive, long-range general plan for:
574           (a) present and future needs of the municipality; and
575           (b) growth and development of all or any part of the land within the municipality.
576           (2) The general plan may provide for:
577           (a) health, general welfare, safety, energy conservation, transportation, prosperity, civic
578   activities, aesthetics, and recreational, educational, and cultural opportunities;
579           (b) the reduction of the waste of physical, financial, or human resources that result
580   from either excessive congestion or excessive scattering of population;
581           (c) the efficient and economical use, conservation, and production of the supply of:
582           (i) food and water; and
583           (ii) drainage, sanitary, and other facilities and resources;
584           (d) the use of energy conservation and solar and renewable energy resources;
585           (e) the protection of urban development;
586           (f) if the municipality is a town, the protection or promotion of moderate income
587   housing;
588           (g) the protection and promotion of air quality;
589           (h) historic preservation;




                                                      - 21 -
        H.B. 462                                                                            Enrolled Copy
590            (i) identifying future uses of land that are likely to require an expansion or significant
591   modification of services or facilities provided by each affected entity; and
592            (j) an official map.
593            [(3) (a) The general plan of a municipality, other than a town, shall plan for moderate
594   income housing growth.]
595            [(b) On or before December 1, 2019, each of the following that have a general plan that
596   does not comply with Subsection (3)(a) shall amend the general plan to comply with
597   Subsection (3)(a):]
598            [(i) a city of the first, second, third, or fourth class;]
599            [(ii) a city of the fifth class with a population of 5,000 or more, if the city is located
600   within a county of the first, second, or third class; and]
601            [(iii) a metro township with a population of 5,000 or more.]
602            [(c) The population figures described in Subsections (3)(b)(ii) and (iii) shall be derived
603   from:]
604            [(i) the most recent official census or census estimate of the United States Census
605   Bureau; or]
606            [(ii) if a population figure is not available under Subsection (3)(c)(i), an estimate of the
607   Utah Population Committee.]
608            (3) (a) The general plan of a specified municipality, as defined in Section 10-9a-408,
609   shall include a moderate income housing element that meets the requirements of Subsection
610   10-9a-403(2)(a)(iii).
611            (b) On or before October 1, 2022, a specified municipality, as defined in Section
612   10-9a-408, with a general plan that does not comply with Subsection (3)(a) shall amend the
613   general plan to comply with Subsection (3)(a).
614            (4) Subject to Subsection 10-9a-403(2), the municipality may determine the
615   comprehensiveness, extent, and format of the general plan.
616            Section 3. Section 10-9a-403 is amended to read:
617            10-9a-403. General plan preparation.




                                                         - 22 -
        Enrolled Copy                                                                               H.B. 462
618           (1) (a) The planning commission shall provide notice, as provided in Section
619   10-9a-203, of [its] the planning commission's intent to make a recommendation to the
620   municipal legislative body for a general plan or a comprehensive general plan amendment
621   when the planning commission initiates the process of preparing [its] the planning
622   commission's recommendation.
623           (b) The planning commission shall make and recommend to the legislative body a
624   proposed general plan for the area within the municipality.
625           (c) The plan may include areas outside the boundaries of the municipality if, in the
626   planning commission's judgment, those areas are related to the planning of the municipality's
627   territory.
628           (d) Except as otherwise provided by law or with respect to a municipality's power of
629   eminent domain, when the plan of a municipality involves territory outside the boundaries of
630   the municipality, the municipality may not take action affecting that territory without the
631   concurrence of the county or other municipalities affected.
632           (2) (a) At a minimum, the proposed general plan, with the accompanying maps, charts,
633   and descriptive and explanatory matter, shall include the planning commission's
634   recommendations for the following plan elements:
635           (i) a land use element that:
636           (A) designates the long-term goals and the proposed extent, general distribution, and
637   location of land for housing for residents of various income levels, business, industry,
638   agriculture, recreation, education, public buildings and grounds, open space, and other
639   categories of public and private uses of land as appropriate; and
640           (B) [may include] includes a statement of the projections for and standards of
641   population density and building intensity recommended for the various land use categories
642   covered by the plan;
643           (ii) a transportation and traffic circulation element that:
644           (A) provides the general location and extent of existing and proposed freeways, arterial
645   and collector streets, public transit, active transportation facilities, and other modes of




                                                      - 23 -
        H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
646   transportation that the planning commission considers appropriate;
647           (B) for a municipality that has access to a major transit investment corridor, addresses
648   the municipality's plan for residential and commercial development around major transit
649   investment corridors to maintain and improve the connections between housing, employment,
650   education, recreation, and commerce;
651           (C) for a municipality that does not have access to a major transit investment corridor,
652   addresses the municipality's plan for residential and commercial development in areas that will
653   maintain and improve the connections between housing, transportation, employment,
654   education, recreation, and commerce; and
655           (D) correlates with the population projections, the employment projections, and the
656   proposed land use element of the general plan; and
657           [(iii) for a municipality described in Subsection 10-9a-401(3)(b), a plan that provides a
658   realistic opportunity to meet the need for additional moderate income housing.]
659           (iii) for a specified municipality as defined in Section 10-9a-408, a moderate income
660   housing element that:
661           (A) provides a realistic opportunity to meet the need for additional moderate income
662   housing within the next five years;
663           (B) selects three or more moderate income housing strategies described in Subsection
664   (2)(b)(iii) for implementation, including one additional moderate income housing strategy as
665   provided in Subsection (2)(b)(iv) for a specified municipality that has a fixed guideway public
666   transit station; and
667           (C) includes an implementation plan as provided in Subsection (2)(c).
668           (b) In drafting the moderate income housing element, the planning commission:
669           (i) shall consider the Legislature's determination that municipalities shall facilitate a
670   reasonable opportunity for a variety of housing, including moderate income housing:
671           (A) to meet the needs of people of various income levels living, working, or desiring to
672   live or work in the community; and
673           (B) to allow people with various incomes to benefit from and fully participate in all




                                                      - 24 -
        Enrolled Copy                                                                           H.B. 462
674   aspects of neighborhood and community life;
675            (ii) for a town, may include, and for [other municipalities] a specified municipality as
676   defined in Section 10-9a-408, shall include, an analysis of how the municipality will provide a
677   realistic opportunity for the development of moderate income housing within the next five
678   years;
679            (iii) for a town, may include, and for other municipalities, shall include, a
680   recommendation to implement three or more of the following moderate income housing
681   strategies:
682            (A) rezone for densities necessary to [assure] facilitate the production of moderate
683   income housing;
684            (B) [facilitate] demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation or expansion of
685   infrastructure that [will encourage] facilitates the construction of moderate income housing;
686            (C) [facilitate] demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation of existing uninhabitable
687   housing stock into moderate income housing;
688            (D) [consider] identify and utilize general fund subsidies or other sources of revenue to
689   waive construction related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the [city] municipality
690   for the construction or rehabilitation of moderate income housing;
691            (E) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory
692   dwelling units in residential zones;
693            (F) [allow] zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential
694   development in commercial [and] or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors,
695   commercial centers, or employment centers;
696            (G) [encourage higher density or] amend land use regulations to allow for higher
697   density or new moderate income residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones
698   near major transit investment corridors;
699            (H) amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking requirements for
700   residential development where a resident is less likely to rely on the resident's own vehicle,
701   such as residential development near major transit investment corridors or senior living




                                                       - 25 -
        H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
702   facilities;
703           (I) amend land use regulations to allow for single room occupancy developments;
704           (J) implement zoning incentives for [low to] moderate income units in new
705   developments;
706           [(K) utilize strategies that preserve subsidized low to moderate income units on a
707   long-term basis;]
708           [(L)] (K) preserve existing and new moderate income housing and subsidized units by
709   utilizing a landlord incentive program, providing for deed restricted units through a grant
710   program, or establishing a housing loss mitigation fund;
711           [(M)] (L) reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees[, as defined in Section 11-36a-102,]
712   related to [low and] moderate income housing;
713           [(N) participate in] (M) demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community land
714   trust program for [low or] moderate income housing;
715           [(O)] (N) implement a mortgage assistance program for employees of the municipality
716   [or of], an employer that provides contracted services to the municipality, or any other public
717   employer that operates within the municipality;
718           [(P)] (O) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax
719   incentives to promote the construction of moderate income housing, an entity that applies for
720   programs offered by the Utah Housing Corporation within that agency's funding capacity, an
721   entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered by the Department of
722   Workforce Services, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered by an
723   association of governments established by an interlocal agreement under Title 11, Chapter 13,
724   Interlocal Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services provided by a public housing
725   authority to preserve and create moderate income housing, or any other entity that applies for
726   programs or services that promote the construction or preservation of moderate income
727   housing;
728           [(Q) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for programs offered by the Utah
729   Housing Corporation within that agency's funding capacity;]




                                                      - 26 -
        Enrolled Copy                                                                         H.B. 462
730          [(R) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for affordable housing programs
731   administered by the Department of Workforce Services;]
732          [(S) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for programs administered by an
733   association of governments established by an interlocal agreement under Title 11, Chapter 13,
734   Interlocal Cooperation Act;]
735          [(T) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for services provided by a public
736   housing authority to preserve and create moderate income housing;]
737          [(U) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for programs administered by a
738   metropolitan planning organization or other transportation agency that provides technical
739   planning assistance;]
740          [(V) utilize] (P) demonstrate utilization of a moderate income housing set aside from a
741   community reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and
742   renewal agency[; and] to create or subsidize moderate income housing;
743          (Q) create a housing and transit reinvestment zone pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 3,
744   Part 6, Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act;
745          (R) eliminate impact fees for any accessory dwelling unit that is not an internal
746   accessory dwelling unit as defined in Section 10-9a-530;
747          (S) create a program to transfer development rights for moderate income housing;
748          (T) ratify a joint acquisition agreement with another local political subdivision for the
749   purpose of combining resources to acquire property for moderate income housing;
750          (U) develop a moderate income housing project for residents who are disabled or 55
751   years old or older;
752          (V) develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with Section 10-9a-403.1;
753          (W) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multifamily residential
754   dwellings compatible in scale and form with detached single-family residential dwellings and
755   located in walkable communities within residential or mixed-use zones; and
756          [(W)] (X) demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy [implemented
757   by the municipality] to address the housing needs of residents of the municipality who earn less




                                                    - 27 -
        H.B. 462                                                                        Enrolled Copy
758   than 80% of the area median income, including the dedication of a local funding source to
759   moderate income housing or the adoption of a land use ordinance that requires 10% or more of
760   new residential development in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate income housing;
761   and
762          (iv) in addition to the recommendations required under Subsection (2)(b)(iii), for a
763   municipality that has a fixed guideway public transit station, shall include a recommendation to
764   implement [the strategies]:
765          (A) the strategy described in Subsection (2)(b)(iii)(V); and
766          (B) a strategy described in Subsection (2)(b)(iii)(G) [or], (H), or (Q).
767          (c) (i) In drafting the implementation plan portion of the moderate income housing
768   element as described in Subsection (2)(a)(iii)(C), the planning commission shall establish a
769   timeline for implementing each of the moderate income housing strategies selected by the
770   municipality for implementation.
771          (ii) The timeline described in Subsection (2)(c)(i) shall:
772          (A) identify specific measures and benchmarks for implementing each moderate
773   income housing strategy selected by the municipality, whether one-time or ongoing; and
774          (B) provide flexibility for the municipality to make adjustments as needed.
775          [(c)] (d) In drafting the land use element, the planning commission shall:
776          (i) identify and consider each agriculture protection area within the municipality; [and]
777          (ii) avoid proposing a use of land within an agriculture protection area that is
778   inconsistent with or detrimental to the use of the land for agriculture[.]; and
779          (iii) consider and coordinate with any station area plans adopted by the municipality if
780   required under Section 10-9a-403.1.
781          [(d)] (e) In drafting the transportation and traffic circulation element, the planning
782   commission shall:
783          (i) (A) consider and coordinate with the regional transportation plan developed by [its]
784   the region's metropolitan planning organization, if the municipality is within the boundaries of
785   a metropolitan planning organization; or




                                                      - 28 -
        Enrolled Copy                                                                              H.B. 462
786           [(ii)] (B) consider and coordinate with the long-range transportation plan developed by
787   the Department of Transportation, if the municipality is not within the boundaries of a
788   metropolitan planning organization[.]; and
789           (ii) consider and coordinate with any station area plans adopted by the municipality if
790   required under Section 10-9a-403.1.
791           (3) The proposed general plan may include:
792           (a) an environmental element that addresses:
793           (i) the protection, conservation, development, and use of natural resources, including
794   the quality of air, forests, soils, rivers and other waters, harbors, fisheries, wildlife, minerals,
795   and other natural resources; and
796           (ii) the reclamation of land, flood control, prevention and control of the pollution of
797   streams and other waters, regulation of the use of land on hillsides, stream channels and other
798   environmentally sensitive areas, the prevention, control, and correction of the erosion of soils,
799   protection of watersheds and wetlands, and the mapping of known geologic hazards;
800           (b) a public services and facilities element showing general plans for sewage, water,
801   waste disposal, drainage, public utilities, rights-of-way, easements, and facilities for them,
802   police and fire protection, and other public services;
803           (c) a rehabilitation, redevelopment, and conservation element consisting of plans and
804   programs for:
805           (i) historic preservation;
806           (ii) the diminution or elimination of a development impediment as defined in Section
807   17C-1-102; and
808           (iii) redevelopment of land, including housing sites, business and industrial sites, and
809   public building sites;
810           (d) an economic element composed of appropriate studies and forecasts, as well as an
811   economic development plan, which may include review of existing and projected municipal
812   revenue and expenditures, revenue sources, identification of basic and secondary industry,
813   primary and secondary market areas, employment, and retail sales activity;




                                                       - 29 -
        H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
814           (e) recommendations for implementing all or any portion of the general plan, including
815   the use of land use ordinances, capital improvement plans, community development and
816   promotion, and any other appropriate action;
817           (f) provisions addressing any of the matters listed in Subsection 10-9a-401(2) or (3);
818   and
819           (g) any other element the municipality considers appropriate.
820           Section 4. Section 10-9a-403.1 is enacted to read:
821           10-9a-403.1. Station area plan requirements -- Contents -- Review and
822   certification by applicable metropolitan planning organization.
823           (1) As used in this section:
824           (a) "Applicable metropolitan planning organization" means the metropolitan planning
825   organization that has jurisdiction over the area in which a fixed guideway public transit station
826   is located.
827           (b) "Applicable public transit district" means the public transit district, as defined in
828   Section 17B-2a-802, of which a fixed guideway public transit station is included.
829           (c) "Existing fixed guideway public transit station" means a fixed guideway public
830   transit station for which construction begins before June 1, 2022.
831           (d) "Fixed guideway" means the same as that term is defined in Section 59-12-102.
832           (e) "Metropolitan planning organization" means an organization established under 23
833   U.S.C. Sec. 134.
834           (f) "New fixed guideway public transit station" means a fixed guideway public transit
835   station for which construction begins on or after June 1, 2022.
836           (g) "Qualifying land use application" means a land use application:
837           (i) that involves land located within a station area for an existing public transit station
838   that provides rail services;
839           (ii) that involves land located within a station area for which the municipality has not
840   yet satisfied the requirements of Subsection (2)(a);
841           (iii) that proposes the development of an area greater than five contiguous acres;




                                                      - 30 -
        Enrolled Copy                                                                           H.B. 462
842           (iv) that would require the municipality to amend the municipality's general plan or
843   change a zoning designation for the land use application to be approved;
844           (v) that would require a higher density than the density currently allowed by the
845   municipality;
846           (vi) that proposes the construction of new residential units, at least 10% of which are
847   dedicated to moderate income housing; and
848           (vii) for which the land use applicant requests the municipality to initiate the process of
849   satisfying the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for the station area in which the development
850   is proposed, subject to Subsection (3)(d).
851           (h) (i) "Station area" means:
852           (A) for a fixed guideway public transit station that provides rail services, the area
853   within a one-half mile radius of the center of the fixed guideway public transit station platform;
854   or
855           (B) for a fixed guideway public transit station that provides bus services only, the area
856   within a one-fourth mile radius of the center of the fixed guideway public transit station
857   platform.
858           (ii) "Station area" includes any parcel bisected by the radius limitation described in
859   Subsection (1)(h)(i)(A) or (B).
860           (i) "Station area plan" means a plan that:
861           (i) establishes a vision, and the actions needed to implement that vision, for the
862   development of land within a station area; and
863           (ii) is developed and adopted in accordance with this section.
864           (2) (a) Subject to the requirements of this section, a municipality that has a fixed
865   guideway public transit station located within the municipality's boundaries shall, for the
866   station area:
867           (i) develop and adopt a station area plan; and
868           (ii) adopt any appropriate land use regulations to implement the station area plan.
869           (b) The requirements of Subsection (2)(a) shall be considered satisfied if:




                                                      - 31 -
        H.B. 462                                                                        Enrolled Copy
870          (i) (A) the municipality has already taken actions to satisfy the requirements of
871   Subsection (2)(a) for a station area, including actions that involve public and stakeholder
872   engagement processes, market assessments, the creation of a station area vision, planning and
873   implementation activities, capital programs, the adoption of land use regulations, or other
874   similar actions; and
875          (B) the municipality adopts a resolution demonstrating the requirements of Subsection
876   (2)(a) have been satisfied; or
877          (ii) (A) the municipality has determined that conditions exist that make satisfying a
878   portion or all of the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for a station area impracticable,
879   including conditions that relate to existing development, entitlements, land ownership, land
880   uses that make opportunities for new development and long-term redevelopment infeasible,
881   environmental limitations, market readiness, development impediment conditions, or other
882   similar conditions; and
883          (B) the municipality adopts a resolution describing the conditions that exist to make
884   satisfying the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) impracticable.
885          (c) To the extent that previous actions by a municipality do not satisfy the requirements
886   of Subsection (2)(a) for a station area, the municipality shall take the actions necessary to
887   satisfy those requirements.
888          (3) (a) A municipality that has a new fixed guideway public transit station located
889   within the municipality's boundaries shall satisfy the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for the
890   station area surrounding the new fixed guideway public transit station before the new fixed
891   guideway public transit station begins transit services.
892          (b) Except as provided in Subsections (3)(c) and (d), a municipality that has an existing
893   fixed guideway public transit station located within the municipality's boundaries shall satisfy
894   the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for the station area surrounding the existing fixed
895   guideway public transit station on or before December 31, 2025.
896          (c) If a municipality has more than four existing fixed guideway public transit stations
897   located within the municipality's boundaries, the municipality shall:




                                                      - 32 -
        Enrolled Copy                                                                            H.B. 462
898          (i) on or before December 31, 2025, satisfy the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for
899   four or more station areas located within the municipality; and
900          (ii) on or before December 31 of each year thereafter, satisfy the requirements of
901   Subsection (2)(a) for no less than two station areas located within the municipality until the
902   municipality has satisfied the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for each station area located
903   within the municipality.
904          (d) (i) Subject to Subsection (3)(d)(ii):
905          (A) if a municipality receives a complete qualifying land use application on or before
906   July 1, 2022, the municipality shall satisfy the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for the station
907   area in which the development is proposed on or before July 1, 2023; and
908          (B) if a municipality receives a complete qualifying land use application after July 1,
909   2022, the municipality shall satisfy the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for the station area in
910   which the development is proposed within a 12-month period beginning on the first day of the
911   month immediately following the month in which the qualifying land use application is
912   submitted to the municipality.
913          (ii) (A) A municipality is not required to satisfy the requirements of Subsection (2)(a)
914   for more than two station areas under Subsection (3)(d)(i) within any 12-month period.
915          (B) If a municipality receives more than two complete qualifying land use applications
916   on or before July 1, 2022, the municipality shall select two station areas for which the
917   municipality will satisfy the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) in accordance with Subsection
918   (3)(d)(i)(A).
919          (iii) A municipality shall process on a first priority basis a land use application,
920   including an application for a building permit, if:
921          (A) the land use application is for a residential use within a station area for which the
922   municipality has not satisfied the requirements of Subsection (2)(a); and
923          (B) the municipality would be required to change a zoning designation for the land use
924   application to be approved.
925          (e) Notwithstanding Subsections (3)(a) through (d), the time period for satisfying the




                                                     - 33 -
        H.B. 462                                                                        Enrolled Copy
926   requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for a station area may be extended once for a period of 12
927   months if:
928           (i) the municipality demonstrates to the applicable metropolitan planning organization
929   that conditions exist that make satisfying the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) within the
930   required time period infeasible, despite the municipality's good faith efforts; and
931           (ii) the applicable metropolitan planning organization certifies to the municipality in
932   writing that the municipality satisfied the demonstration in Subsection (3)(e)(i).
933           (4) (a) Except as provided in Subsection (4)(b), if a station area is included within the
934   boundaries of more than one municipality, each municipality with jurisdiction over the station
935   area shall satisfy the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for the portion of the station area over
936   which the municipality has jurisdiction.
937           (b) Two or more municipalities with jurisdiction over a station area may coordinate to
938   develop a shared station area plan for the entire station area.
939           (5) A municipality that has more than one fixed guideway public transit station located
940   within the municipality may, through an integrated process, develop station area plans for
941   multiple station areas if the station areas are within close proximity of each other.
942           (6) (a) A municipality that is required to develop and adopt a station area plan under
943   this section may request technical assistance from the applicable metropolitan planning
944   organization.
945           (b) An applicable metropolitan planning organization that receives funds from the
946   Governor's Office of Economic Opportunity under Section 63N-3-113 shall, when utilizing the
947   funds, give priority consideration to requests for technical assistance for station area plans
948   required under Subsection (3)(d).
949           (7) (a) A station area plan shall promote the following objectives within the station
950   area:
951           (i) increasing the availability and affordability of housing, including moderate income
952   housing;
953           (ii) promoting sustainable environmental conditions;




                                                      - 34 -
        Enrolled Copy                                                                         H.B. 462
954           (iii) enhancing access to opportunities; and
955           (iv) increasing transportation choices and connections.
956           (b) (i) To promote the objective described in Subsection (7)(a)(i), a municipality may
957   consider implementing the following actions:
958           (A) aligning the station area plan with the moderate income housing element of the
959   municipality's general plan;
960           (B) providing for densities necessary to facilitate the development of moderate income
961   housing;
962           (C) providing for affordable costs of living in connection with housing, transportation,
963   and parking; or
964           (D) any other similar action that promotes the objective described in Subsection
965   (7)(a)(i).
966           (ii) To promote the objective described in Subsection (7)(a)(ii), a municipality may
967   consider implementing the following actions:
968           (A) conserving water resources through efficient land use;
969           (B) improving air quality by reducing fuel consumption and motor vehicle trips;
970           (C) establishing parks, open spaces, and recreational opportunities; or
971           (D) any other similar action that promotes the objective described in Subsection
972   (7)(a)(ii).
973           (iii) To promote the objective described in Subsection (7)(a)(iii), a municipality may
974   consider the following actions:
975           (A) maintaining and improving the connections between housing, transit, employment,
976   education, recreation, and commerce;
977           (B) encouraging mixed-use development;
978           (C) enabling employment and educational opportunities within the station area;
979           (D) encouraging and promoting enhanced broadband connectivity; or
980           (E) any other similar action that promotes the objective described in Subsection
981   (7)(a)(iii).




                                                     - 35 -
         H.B. 462                                                                       Enrolled Copy
 982           (iv) To promote the objective described in Subsection (7)(a)(iv), a municipality may
 983   consider the following:
 984           (A) supporting investment in infrastructure for all modes of transportation;
 985           (B) increasing utilization of public transit;
 986           (C) encouraging safe streets through the designation of pedestrian walkways and
 987   bicycle lanes;
 988           (D) encouraging manageable and reliable traffic conditions;
 989           (E) aligning the station area plan with the regional transportation plan of the applicable
 990   metropolitan planning organization; or
 991           (F) any other similar action that promotes the objective described in Subsection
 992   (7)(a)(iv).
 993           (8) A station area plan shall include the following components:
 994           (a) a station area vision that:
 995           (i) is consistent with Subsection (7); and
 996           (ii) describes the following:
 997           (A) opportunities for the development of land within the station area under existing
 998   conditions;
 999           (B) constraints on the development of land within the station area under existing
1000   conditions;
1001           (C) the municipality's objectives for the transportation system within the station area
1002   and the future transportation system that meets those objectives;
1003           (D) the municipality's objectives for land uses within the station area and the future
1004   land uses that meet those objectives;
1005           (E) the municipality's objectives for public and open spaces within the station area and
1006   the future public and open spaces that meet those objectives; and
1007           (F) the municipality's objectives for the development of land within the station area and
1008   the future development standards that meet those objectives;
1009           (b) a map that depicts:




                                                       - 36 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                           H.B. 462
1010          (i) the area within the municipality that is subject to the station area plan, provided that
1011   the station area plan may apply to areas outside of the station area; and
1012          (ii) the area where each action is needed to implement the station area plan;
1013          (c) an implementation plan that identifies and describes each action needed within the
1014   next five years to implement the station area plan, and the party responsible for taking each
1015   action, including any actions to:
1016          (i) modify land use regulations;
1017          (ii) make infrastructure improvements;
1018          (iii) modify deeds or other relevant legal documents;
1019          (iv) secure funding or develop funding strategies;
1020          (v) establish design standards for development within the station area; or
1021          (vi) provide environmental remediation;
1022          (d) a statement that explains how the station area plan promotes the objectives
1023   described in Subsection (7)(a); and
1024          (e) as an alternative or supplement to the requirements of Subsection (7) or (8), and for
1025   purposes of Subsection (2)(b)(ii), a statement that describes any conditions that would make
1026   the following impracticable:
1027          (i) promoting the objectives described in Subsection (7)(a); or
1028          (ii) satisfying the requirements of Subsection (8).
1029          (9) A municipality shall develop a station area plan with the involvement of all
1030   relevant stakeholders that have an interest in the station area through public outreach and
1031   community engagement, including:
1032          (a) other impacted communities;
1033          (b) the applicable public transit district;
1034          (c) the applicable metropolitan planning organization;
1035          (d) the Department of Transportation;
1036          (e) owners of property within the station area; and
1037          (f) the municipality's residents and business owners.




                                                       - 37 -
         H.B. 462                                                                           Enrolled Copy
1038           (10) (a) A municipality that is required to develop and adopt a station area plan for a
1039   station area under this section shall submit to the applicable metropolitan planning organization
1040   and the applicable public transit district documentation evidencing that the municipality has
1041   satisfied the requirement of Subsection (2)(a)(i) for the station area, including:
1042           (i) a station area plan; or
1043           (ii) a resolution adopted under Subsection (2)(b)(i) or (ii).
1044           (b) The applicable metropolitan planning organization, in consultation with the
1045   applicable public transit district, shall:
1046           (i) review the documentation submitted under Subsection (10)(a) to determine the
1047   municipality's compliance with this section; and
1048           (ii) provide written certification to the municipality if the applicable metropolitan
1049   planning organization determines that the municipality has satisfied the requirement of
1050   Subsection (2)(a)(i) for the station area.
1051           (c) The municipality shall include the certification described in Subsection (10)(b)(ii)
1052   in the municipality's report to the Department of Workforce Services under Section 10-9a-408.
1053           Section 5. Section 10-9a-404 is amended to read:
1054           10-9a-404. Public hearing by planning commission on proposed general plan or
1055   amendment -- Notice -- Revisions to general plan or amendment -- Adoption or rejection
1056   by legislative body.
1057           (1) (a) After completing its recommendation for a proposed general plan, or proposal to
1058   amend the general plan, the planning commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on
1059   the proposed plan or amendment.
1060           (b) The planning commission shall provide notice of the public hearing, as required by
1061   Section 10-9a-204.
1062           (c) After the public hearing, the planning commission may modify the proposed
1063   general plan or amendment.
1064           (2) The planning commission shall forward the proposed general plan or amendment to
1065   the legislative body.




                                                       - 38 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                         H.B. 462
1066          (3) (a) The legislative body may adopt, reject, or make any revisions to the proposed
1067   general plan or amendment that it considers appropriate.
1068          (b) If the municipal legislative body rejects the proposed general plan or amendment, it
1069   may provide suggestions to the planning commission for the planning commission's review and
1070   recommendation.
1071          (4) The legislative body shall adopt:
1072          (a) a land use element as provided in Subsection 10-9a-403(2)(a)(i);
1073          (b) a transportation and traffic circulation element as provided in Subsection
1074   10-9a-403(2)(a)(ii); and
1075          [(c) for a municipality, other than a town, after considering the factors included in
1076   Subsection 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii), a plan to provide a realistic opportunity to meet the need for
1077   additional moderate income housing within the next five years.]
1078          (c) for a specified municipality as defined in Section 10-9a-408, a moderate income
1079   housing element as provided in Subsection 10-9a-403(2)(a)(iii).
1080          Section 6. Section 10-9a-408 is amended to read:
1081          10-9a-408. Moderate income housing report -- Contents -- Prioritization for
1082   funds or projects -- Ineligibility for funds after noncompliance -- Civil actions.
1083          [(1) The legislative body of a municipality described in Subsection 10-9a-401(3)(b)
1084   shall annually:]
1085          [(a) review the moderate income housing plan element of the municipality's general
1086   plan and implementation of that element of the general plan;]
1087          [(b) prepare a report on the findings of the review described in Subsection (1)(a); and]
1088          [(c) post the report described in Subsection (1)(b) on the municipality's website.]
1089          [(2) The report described in Subsection (1) shall include:]
1090          [(a) a revised estimate of the need for moderate income housing in the municipality for
1091   the next five years;]
1092          [(b) a description of progress made within the municipality to provide moderate
1093   income housing, demonstrated by analyzing and publishing data on the number of housing




                                                      - 39 -
         H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
1094   units in the municipality that are at or below:]
1095          [(i) 80% of the adjusted median family income;]
1096          [(ii) 50% of the adjusted median family income; and]
1097          [(iii) 30% of the adjusted median family income;]
1098          [(c) a description of any efforts made by the municipality to utilize a moderate income
1099   housing set-aside from a community reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or
1100   community development and renewal agency; and]
1101          [(d) a description of how the municipality has implemented any of the
1102   recommendations related to moderate income housing described in Subsection
1103   10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii).]
1104          [(3) The legislative body of each municipality described in Subsection (1) shall send a
1105   copy of the report under Subsection (1) to the Department of Workforce Services, the
1106   association of governments in which the municipality is located, and, if located within the
1107   boundaries of a metropolitan planning organization, the appropriate metropolitan planning
1108   organization.]
1109          (1) As used in this section:
1110          (a) "Division" means the Housing and Community Development Division within the
1111   Department of Workforce Services.
1112          (b) "Implementation plan" means the implementation plan adopted as part of the
1113   moderate income housing element of a specified municipality's general plan as provided in
1114   Subsection 10-9a-403(2)(c).
1115          (c) "Moderate income housing report" or "report" means the report described in
1116   Subsection (2)(a).
1117          (d) "Moderate income housing strategy" means a strategy described in Subsection
1118   10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii).
1119          (e) "Specified municipality" means:
1120          (i) a city of the first, second, third, or fourth class;
1121          (ii) a city of the fifth class with a population of 5,000 or more, if the city is located




                                                          - 40 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                            H.B. 462
1122   within a county of the first, second, or third class; or
1123           (iii) a metro township with a population of 5,000 or more.
1124           (2) (a) Beginning in 2022, on or before October 1 of each calendar year, the legislative
1125   body of a specified municipality shall annually submit a written moderate income housing
1126   report to the division.
1127           (b) The moderate income housing report submitted in 2022 shall include:
1128           (i) a description of each moderate income housing strategy selected by the specified
1129   municipality for implementation; and
1130           (ii) an implementation plan.
1131           (c) The moderate income housing report submitted in each calendar year after 2022
1132   shall include:
1133           (i) the information required under Subsection (2)(b);
1134           (ii) a description of each action, whether one-time or ongoing, taken by the specified
1135   municipality during the previous fiscal year to implement the moderate income housing
1136   strategies selected by the specified municipality for implementation;
1137           (iii) a description of each land use regulation or land use decision made by the
1138   specified municipality during the previous fiscal year to implement the moderate income
1139   housing strategies, including an explanation of how the land use regulation or land use decision
1140   supports the specified municipality's efforts to implement the moderate income housing
1141   strategies;
1142           (iv) a description of any barriers encountered by the specified municipality in the
1143   previous fiscal year in implementing the moderate income housing strategies;
1144           (v) information regarding the number of internal and external or detached accessory
1145   dwelling units located within the specified municipality for which the specified municipality:
1146           (A) issued a building permit to construct; or
1147           (B) issued a business license to rent;
1148           (vi) a description of how the market has responded to the selected moderate income
1149   housing strategies, including the number of entitled moderate income housing units or other




                                                        - 41 -
         H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
1150   relevant data; and
1151             (vii) any recommendations on how the state can support the specified municipality in
1152   implementing the moderate income housing strategies.
1153             (d) The moderate income housing report shall be in a form:
1154             (i) approved by the division; and
1155             (ii) made available by the division on or before July 1 of the year in which the report is
1156   required.
1157             (3) Within 90 days after the day on which the division receives a specified
1158   municipality's moderate income housing report, the division shall:
1159             (a) post the report on the division's website;
1160             (b) send a copy of the report to the Department of Transportation, the Governor's
1161   Office of Planning and Budget, the association of governments in which the specified
1162   municipality is located, and, if the specified municipality is located within the boundaries of a
1163   metropolitan planning organization, the appropriate metropolitan planning organization; and
1164             (c) subject to Subsection (4), review the report to determine compliance with
1165   Subsection (2).
1166             (4) (a) The report described in Subsection (2)(b) complies with Subsection (2) if the
1167   report:
1168             (i) includes the information required under Subsection (2)(b);
1169             (ii) demonstrates to the division that the specified municipality made plans to
1170   implement:
1171             (A) three or more moderate income housing strategies if the specified municipality
1172   does not have a fixed guideway public transit station; or
1173             (B) subject to Subsection 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iv), five or more moderate income housing
1174   strategies if the specified municipality has a fixed guideway public transit station; and
1175             (iii) is in a form approved by the division.
1176             (b) The report described in Subsection (2)(c) complies with Subsection (2) if the
1177   report:




                                                         - 42 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                           H.B. 462
1178          (i) includes the information required under Subsection (2)(c);
1179          (ii) demonstrates to the division that the specified municipality made plans to
1180   implement:
1181          (A) three or more moderate income housing strategies if the specified municipality
1182   does not have a fixed guideway public transit station; or
1183          (B) four or more moderate income housing strategies if the specified municipality has a
1184   fixed guideway public transit station;
1185          (iii) is in a form approved by the division; and
1186          (iv) provides sufficient information for the division to:
1187          (A) assess the specified municipality's progress in implementing the moderate income
1188   housing strategies;
1189          (B) monitor compliance with the specified municipality's implementation plan;
1190          (C) identify a clear correlation between the specified municipality's land use
1191   regulations and land use decisions and the specified municipality's efforts to implement the
1192   moderate income housing strategies; and
1193          (D) identify how the market has responded to the specified municipality's selected
1194   moderate income housing strategies.
1195          (5) (a) A specified municipality qualifies for priority consideration under this
1196   Subsection (5) if the specified municipality's moderate income housing report:
1197          (i) complies with Subsection (2); and
1198          (ii) demonstrates to the division that the specified municipality made plans to
1199   implement:
1200          (A) five or more moderate income housing strategies if the specified municipality does
1201   not have a fixed guideway public transit station; or
1202          (B) six or more moderate income housing strategies if the specified municipality has a
1203   fixed guideway public transit station.
1204          (b) The following apply to a specified municipality described in Subsection (5)(a)
1205   during the fiscal year immediately following the fiscal year in which the report is required:




                                                      - 43 -
         H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
1206          (i) the Transportation Commission may give priority consideration to transportation
1207   projects located within the boundaries of the specified municipality in accordance with
1208   Subsection 72-1-304(3)(c); and
1209          (ii) the Governor's Office of Planning and Budget may give priority consideration for
1210   awarding financial grants to the specified municipality under the COVID-19 Local Assistance
1211   Matching Grant Program in accordance with Subsection 63J-4-802(6).
1212          (c) Upon determining that a specified municipality qualifies for priority consideration
1213   under this Subsection (5), the division shall send a notice of prioritization to the legislative
1214   body of the specified municipality, the Department of Transportation, and the Governor's
1215   Office of Planning and Budget.
1216          (d) The notice described in Subsection (5)(c) shall:
1217          (i) name the specified municipality that qualifies for priority consideration;
1218          (ii) describe the funds or projects for which the specified municipality qualifies to
1219   receive priority consideration;
1220          (iii) specify the fiscal year during which the specified municipality qualifies for priority
1221   consideration; and
1222          (iv) state the basis for the division's determination that the specified municipality
1223   qualifies for priority consideration.
1224          (6) (a) If the division, after reviewing a specified municipality's moderate income
1225   housing report, determines that the report does not comply with Subsection (2), the division
1226   shall send a notice of noncompliance to the legislative body of the specified municipality.
1227          (b) The notice described in Subsection (6)(a) shall:
1228          (i) describe each deficiency in the report and the actions needed to cure each
1229   deficiency;
1230          (ii) state that the specified municipality has an opportunity to cure the deficiencies
1231   within 90 days after the day on which the notice is sent; and
1232          (iii) state that failure to cure the deficiencies within 90 days after the day on which the
1233   notice is sent will result in ineligibility for funds under Subsection (7).




                                                        - 44 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                            H.B. 462
1234          (7) (a) A specified municipality is ineligible for funds under this Subsection (7) if the
1235   specified municipality:
1236          (i) fails to submit a moderate income housing report to the division; or
1237          (ii) fails to cure the deficiencies in the specified municipality's moderate income
1238   housing report within 90 days after the day on which the division sent to the specified
1239   municipality a notice of noncompliance under Subsection (6).
1240          (b) The following apply to a specified municipality described in Subsection (7)(a)
1241   during the fiscal year immediately following the fiscal year in which the report is required:
1242          (i) the executive director of the Department of Transportation may not program funds
1243   from the Transportation Investment Fund of 2005, including the Transit Transportation
1244   Investment Fund, to projects located within the boundaries of the specified municipality in
1245   accordance with Subsection 72-2-124(5); and
1246          (ii) the Governor's Office of Planning and Budget may not award financial grants to the
1247   specified municipality under the COVID-19 Local Assistance Matching Grant Program in
1248   accordance with Subsection 63J-4-802(7).
1249          (c) Upon determining that a specified municipality is ineligible for funds under this
1250   Subsection (7), the division shall send a notice of ineligibility to the legislative body of the
1251   specified municipality, the Department of Transportation, and the Governor's Office of
1252   Planning and Budget.
1253          (d) The notice described in Subsection (7)(c) shall:
1254          (i) name the specified municipality that is ineligible for funds;
1255          (ii) describe the funds for which the specified municipality is ineligible to receive;
1256          (iii) specify the fiscal year during which the specified municipality is ineligible for
1257   funds; and
1258          (iv) state the basis for the division's determination that the specified municipality is
1259   ineligible for funds.
1260          [(4)] (8) In a civil action seeking enforcement or claiming a violation of this section or
1261   of Subsection 10-9a-404(4)(c), a plaintiff may not recover damages but may be awarded only




                                                       - 45 -
         H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
1262   injunctive or other equitable relief.
1263           Section 7. Section 10-9a-509 is amended to read:
1264           10-9a-509. Applicant's entitlement to land use application approval --
1265   Municipality's requirements and limitations -- Vesting upon submission of development
1266   plan and schedule.
1267           (1) (a) (i) An applicant who has submitted a complete land use application as described
1268   in Subsection (1)(c), including the payment of all application fees, is entitled to substantive
1269   review of the application under the land use regulations:
1270           (A) in effect on the date that the application is complete; and
1271           (B) applicable to the application or to the information shown on the application.
1272           (ii) An applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the application
1273   conforms to the requirements of the applicable land use regulations, land use decisions, and
1274   development standards in effect when the applicant submits a complete application and pays
1275   application fees, unless:
1276           (A) the land use authority, on the record, formally finds that a compelling,
1277   countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by approving the application and specifies
1278   the compelling, countervailing public interest in writing; or
1279           (B) in the manner provided by local ordinance and before the applicant submits the
1280   application, the municipality formally initiates proceedings to amend the municipality's land
1281   use regulations in a manner that would prohibit approval of the application as submitted.
1282           (b) The municipality shall process an application without regard to proceedings the
1283   municipality initiated to amend the municipality's ordinances as described in Subsection
1284   (1)(a)(ii)(B) if:
1285           (i) 180 days have passed since the municipality initiated the proceedings; and
1286           (ii) the proceedings have not resulted in an enactment that prohibits approval of the
1287   application as submitted.
1288           (c) A land use application is considered submitted and complete when the applicant
1289   provides the application in a form that complies with the requirements of applicable ordinances




                                                       - 46 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                          H.B. 462
1290   and pays all applicable fees.
1291           (d) A subsequent incorporation of a municipality or a petition that proposes the
1292   incorporation of a municipality does not affect a land use application approved by a county in
1293   accordance with Section 17-27a-508.
1294           (e) The continuing validity of an approval of a land use application is conditioned upon
1295   the applicant proceeding after approval to implement the approval with reasonable diligence.
1296           (f) A municipality may not impose on an applicant who has submitted a complete
1297   application a requirement that is not expressed in:
1298           (i) this chapter;
1299           (ii) a municipal ordinance; or
1300           (iii) a municipal specification for public improvements applicable to a subdivision or
1301   development that is in effect on the date that the applicant submits an application.
1302           (g) A municipality may not impose on a holder of an issued land use permit or a final,
1303   unexpired subdivision plat a requirement that is not expressed:
1304           (i) in a land use permit;
1305           (ii) on the subdivision plat;
1306           (iii) in a document on which the land use permit or subdivision plat is based;
1307           (iv) in the written record evidencing approval of the land use permit or subdivision
1308   plat;
1309           (v) in this chapter; or
1310           (vi) in a municipal ordinance.
1311           (h) Except as provided in Subsection (1)(i), a municipality may not withhold issuance
1312   of a certificate of occupancy or acceptance of subdivision improvements because of an
1313   applicant's failure to comply with a requirement that is not expressed:
1314           (i) in the building permit or subdivision plat, documents on which the building permit
1315   or subdivision plat is based, or the written record evidencing approval of the land use permit or
1316   subdivision plat; or
1317           (ii) in this chapter or the municipality's ordinances.




                                                       - 47 -
         H.B. 462                                                                           Enrolled Copy
1318          (i) A municipality may not unreasonably withhold issuance of a certificate of
1319   occupancy where an applicant has met all requirements essential for the public health, public
1320   safety, and general welfare of the occupants, in accordance with this chapter, unless:
1321          (i) the applicant and the municipality have agreed in a written document to the
1322   withholding of a certificate of occupancy; or
1323          (ii) the applicant has not provided a financial assurance for required and uncompleted
1324   landscaping or infrastructure improvements in accordance with an applicable ordinance that the
1325   legislative body adopts under this chapter.
1326          (2) A municipality is bound by the terms and standards of applicable land use
1327   regulations and shall comply with mandatory provisions of those regulations.
1328          (3) A municipality may not, as a condition of land use application approval, require a
1329   person filing a land use application to obtain documentation regarding a school district's
1330   willingness, capacity, or ability to serve the development proposed in the land use application.
1331          (4) (a) Except as provided in Subsection (4)(b), for a period of 10 years after the day on
1332   which a subdivision plat is recorded, a municipality may not impose on a building permit
1333   applicant for a single-family dwelling located within the subdivision any land use regulation
1334   that is enacted within 10 years after the day on which the subdivision plat is recorded.
1335          (b) Subsection (4)(a) does not apply to any changes in the requirements of the
1336   applicable building code, health code, or fire code, or other similar regulations.
1337          (5) Upon a specified public agency's submission of a development plan and schedule as
1338   required in Subsection 10-9a-305(8) that complies with the requirements of that subsection, the
1339   specified public agency vests in the municipality's applicable land use maps, zoning map,
1340   hookup fees, impact fees, other applicable development fees, and land use regulations in effect
1341   on the date of submission.
1342          (6) (a) If sponsors of a referendum timely challenge a project in accordance with
1343   Subsection 20A-7-601[(5)](6), the project's affected owner may rescind the project's land use
1344   approval by delivering a written notice:
1345          (i) to the local clerk as defined in Section 20A-7-101; and




                                                       - 48 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                              H.B. 462
1346            (ii) no later than seven days after the day on which a petition for a referendum is
1347   determined sufficient under Subsection 20A-7-607(4).
1348            (b) Upon delivery of a written notice described in Subsection (6)(a) the following are
1349   rescinded and are of no further force or effect:
1350            (i) the relevant land use approval; and
1351            (ii) any land use regulation enacted specifically in relation to the land use approval.
1352            Section 8. Section 11-36a-202 is amended to read:
1353            11-36a-202. Prohibitions on impact fees.
1354            (1) A local political subdivision or private entity may not:
1355            (a) impose an impact fee to:
1356            (i) cure deficiencies in a public facility serving existing development;
1357            (ii) raise the established level of service of a public facility serving existing
1358   development; or
1359            (iii) recoup more than the local political subdivision's or private entity's costs actually
1360   incurred for excess capacity in an existing system improvement;
1361            (b) delay the construction of a school or charter school because of a dispute with the
1362   school or charter school over impact fees; or
1363            (c) impose or charge any other fees as a condition of development approval unless
1364   those fees are a reasonable charge for the service provided.
1365            (2) (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a political subdivision or
1366   private entity may not impose an impact fee:
1367            (i) on residential components of development to pay for a public safety facility that is a
1368   fire suppression vehicle;
1369            (ii) on a school district or charter school for a park, recreation facility, open space, or
1370   trail;
1371            (iii) on a school district or charter school unless:
1372            (A) the development resulting from the school district's or charter school's
1373   development activity directly results in a need for additional system improvements for which




                                                          - 49 -
         H.B. 462                                                                           Enrolled Copy
1374   the impact fee is imposed; and
1375             (B) the impact fee is calculated to cover only the school district's or charter school's
1376   proportionate share of the cost of those additional system improvements;
1377             (iv) to the extent that the impact fee includes a component for a law enforcement
1378   facility, on development activity for:
1379             (A) the Utah National Guard;
1380             (B) the Utah Highway Patrol; or
1381             (C) a state institution of higher education that has its own police force; [or]
1382             (v) on development activity on the state fair park, as defined in Section 63H-6-102[.];
1383   or
1384             (vi) on development activity that consists of the construction of an internal accessory
1385   dwelling unit, as defined in Section 10-9a-530, within an existing primary dwelling.
1386             (b) (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a political subdivision or
1387   private entity may not impose an impact fee on development activity that consists of the
1388   construction of a school, whether by a school district or a charter school, if:
1389             (A) the school is intended to replace another school, whether on the same or a different
1390   parcel;
1391             (B) the new school creates no greater demand or need for public facilities than the
1392   school or school facilities, including any portable or modular classrooms that are on the site of
1393   the replaced school at the time that the new school is proposed; and
1394             (C) the new school and the school being replaced are both within the boundary of the
1395   local political subdivision or the jurisdiction of the private entity.
1396             (ii) If the imposition of an impact fee on a new school is not prohibited under
1397   Subsection (2)(b)(i) because the new school creates a greater demand or need for public
1398   facilities than the school being replaced, the impact fee shall be based only on the demand or
1399   need that the new school creates for public facilities that exceeds the demand or need that the
1400   school being replaced creates for those public facilities.
1401             (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a political subdivision or




                                                         - 50 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                             H.B. 462
1402   private entity may impose an impact fee for a road facility on the state only if and to the extent
1403   that:
1404           (i) the state's development causes an impact on the road facility; and
1405           (ii) the portion of the road facility related to an impact fee is not funded by the state or
1406   by the federal government.
1407           (3) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a local political subdivision
1408   may impose and collect impact fees on behalf of a school district if authorized by Section
1409   11-36a-206.
1410           Section 9. Section 11-59-203 is amended to read:
1411           11-59-203. Authority duties and responsibilities.
1412           (1) As the authority plans, manages, and implements the development of the point of
1413   the mountain state land, the authority shall pursue development strategies and objectives
1414   designed to:
1415           (a) maximize the creation of high-quality jobs and encourage and facilitate a highly
1416   trained workforce;
1417           (b) ensure strategic residential and commercial growth;
1418           (c) promote a high quality of life for residents on and surrounding the point of the
1419   mountain state land, including strategic planning to facilitate:
1420           (i) jobs close to where people live;
1421           (ii) vibrant urban centers;
1422           (iii) housing types that incorporate affordability factors and match workforce needs;
1423           (iv) parks, connected trails, and open space, including the preservation of natural lands
1424   to the extent practicable and consistent with the overall development plan; and
1425           (v) preserving and enhancing recreational opportunities;
1426           (d) complement the development on land in the vicinity of the point of the mountain
1427   state land;
1428           (e) improve air quality and minimize resource use; and
1429           (f) accommodate and incorporate the planning, funding, and development of an




                                                       - 51 -
         H.B. 462                                                                           Enrolled Copy
1430   enhanced and expanded future transit and transportation infrastructure and other investments,
1431   including:
1432            (i) the acquisition of rights-of-way and property necessary to ensure transit access to
1433   the point of the mountain state land; and
1434            (ii) a world class mass transit infrastructure, to service the point of the mountain state
1435   land and to enhance mobility and protect the environment.
1436            (2) In planning the development of the point of the mountain state land, the authority
1437   shall:
1438            (a) consult with applicable governmental planning agencies, including:
1439            (i) relevant metropolitan planning organizations; [and]
1440            (ii) Draper City and Salt Lake County planning and governing bodies; and
1441            (iii) in regards to the factors described in Subsections (1)(c)(i) and (iii), the Unified
1442   Economic Opportunity Commission created in Section 63N-1a-201;
1443            (b) research and explore the feasibility of attracting a nationally recognized research
1444   center; and
1445            (c) research and explore the appropriateness of including labor training centers and a
1446   higher education presence on the point of the mountain state land.
1447            Section 10. Section 17-27a-103 is amended to read:
1448            17-27a-103. Definitions.
1449            As used in this chapter:
1450            (1) "Accessory dwelling unit" means a habitable living unit added to, created within, or
1451   detached from a primary single-family dwelling and contained on one lot.
1452            (2) "Adversely affected party" means a person other than a land use applicant who:
1453            (a) owns real property adjoining the property that is the subject of a land use
1454   application or land use decision; or
1455            (b) will suffer a damage different in kind than, or an injury distinct from, that of the
1456   general community as a result of the land use decision.
1457            (3) "Affected entity" means a county, municipality, local district, special service




                                                        - 52 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                             H.B. 462
1458   district under Title 17D, Chapter 1, Special Service District Act, school district, interlocal
1459   cooperation entity established under Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, specified
1460   property owner, property owner's association, public utility, or the Utah Department of
1461   Transportation, if:
1462          (a) the entity's services or facilities are likely to require expansion or significant
1463   modification because of an intended use of land;
1464          (b) the entity has filed with the county a copy of the entity's general or long-range plan;
1465   or
1466          (c) the entity has filed with the county a request for notice during the same calendar
1467   year and before the county provides notice to an affected entity in compliance with a
1468   requirement imposed under this chapter.
1469          (4) "Affected owner" means the owner of real property that is:
1470          (a) a single project;
1471          (b) the subject of a land use approval that sponsors of a referendum timely challenged
1472   in accordance with Subsection 20A-7-601[(5)](6); and
1473          (c) determined to be legally referable under Section 20A-7-602.8.
1474          (5) "Appeal authority" means the person, board, commission, agency, or other body
1475   designated by ordinance to decide an appeal of a decision of a land use application or a
1476   variance.
1477          (6) "Billboard" means a freestanding ground sign located on industrial, commercial, or
1478   residential property if the sign is designed or intended to direct attention to a business, product,
1479   or service that is not sold, offered, or existing on the property where the sign is located.
1480          (7) (a) "Charter school" means:
1481          (i) an operating charter school;
1482          (ii) a charter school applicant that a charter school authorizer approves in accordance
1483   with Title 53G, Chapter 5, Part 3, Charter School Authorization; or
1484          (iii) an entity that is working on behalf of a charter school or approved charter
1485   applicant to develop or construct a charter school building.




                                                       - 53 -
         H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
1486          (b) "Charter school" does not include a therapeutic school.
1487          (8) "Chief executive officer" means the person or body that exercises the executive
1488   powers of the county.
1489          (9) "Conditional use" means a land use that, because of the unique characteristics or
1490   potential impact of the land use on the county, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent land uses,
1491   may not be compatible in some areas or may be compatible only if certain conditions are
1492   required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts.
1493          (10) "Constitutional taking" means a governmental action that results in a taking of
1494   private property so that compensation to the owner of the property is required by the:
1495          (a) Fifth or Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States; or
1496          (b) Utah Constitution, Article I, Section 22.
1497          (11) "County utility easement" means an easement that:
1498          (a) a plat recorded in a county recorder's office described as a county utility easement
1499   or otherwise as a utility easement;
1500          (b) is not a protected utility easement or a public utility easement as defined in Section
1501   54-3-27;
1502          (c) the county or the county's affiliated governmental entity owns or creates; and
1503          (d) (i) either:
1504          (A) no person uses or occupies; or
1505          (B) the county or the county's affiliated governmental entity uses and occupies to
1506   provide a utility service, including sanitary sewer, culinary water, electrical, storm water, or
1507   communications or data lines; or
1508          (ii) a person uses or occupies with or without an authorized franchise or other
1509   agreement with the county.
1510          (12) "Culinary water authority" means the department, agency, or public entity with
1511   responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the culinary water system and sources for
1512   the subject property.
1513          (13) "Development activity" means:




                                                       - 54 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                            H.B. 462
1514           (a) any construction or expansion of a building, structure, or use that creates additional
1515   demand and need for public facilities;
1516           (b) any change in use of a building or structure that creates additional demand and need
1517   for public facilities; or
1518           (c) any change in the use of land that creates additional demand and need for public
1519   facilities.
1520           (14) (a) "Development agreement" means a written agreement or amendment to a
1521   written agreement between a county and one or more parties that regulates or controls the use
1522   or development of a specific area of land.
1523           (b) "Development agreement" does not include an improvement completion assurance.
1524           (15) (a) "Disability" means a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits
1525   one or more of a person's major life activities, including a person having a record of such an
1526   impairment or being regarded as having such an impairment.
1527           (b) "Disability" does not include current illegal use of, or addiction to, any federally
1528   controlled substance, as defined in Section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C.
1529   Sec. 802.
1530           (16) "Educational facility":
1531           (a) means:
1532           (i) a school district's building at which pupils assemble to receive instruction in a
1533   program for any combination of grades from preschool through grade 12, including
1534   kindergarten and a program for children with disabilities;
1535           (ii) a structure or facility:
1536           (A) located on the same property as a building described in Subsection (16)(a)(i); and
1537           (B) used in support of the use of that building; and
1538           (iii) a building to provide office and related space to a school district's administrative
1539   personnel; and
1540           (b) does not include:
1541           (i) land or a structure, including land or a structure for inventory storage, equipment




                                                       - 55 -
         H.B. 462                                                                        Enrolled Copy
1542   storage, food processing or preparing, vehicle storage or maintenance, or similar use that is:
1543           (A) not located on the same property as a building described in Subsection (16)(a)(i);
1544   and
1545           (B) used in support of the purposes of a building described in Subsection (16)(a)(i); or
1546           (ii) a therapeutic school.
1547           (17) "Fire authority" means the department, agency, or public entity with responsibility
1548   to review and approve the feasibility of fire protection and suppression services for the subject
1549   property.
1550           (18) "Flood plain" means land that:
1551           (a) is within the 100-year flood plain designated by the Federal Emergency
1552   Management Agency; or
1553           (b) has not been studied or designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
1554   but presents a likelihood of experiencing chronic flooding or a catastrophic flood event because
1555   the land has characteristics that are similar to those of a 100-year flood plain designated by the
1556   Federal Emergency Management Agency.
1557           (19) "Gas corporation" has the same meaning as defined in Section 54-2-1.
1558           (20) "General plan" means a document that a county adopts that sets forth general
1559   guidelines for proposed future development of:
1560           (a) the unincorporated land within the county; or
1561           (b) for a mountainous planning district, the land within the mountainous planning
1562   district.
1563           (21) "Geologic hazard" means:
1564           (a) a surface fault rupture;
1565           (b) shallow groundwater;
1566           (c) liquefaction;
1567           (d) a landslide;
1568           (e) a debris flow;
1569           (f) unstable soil;




                                                      - 56 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                           H.B. 462
1570             (g) a rock fall; or
1571             (h) any other geologic condition that presents a risk:
1572             (i) to life;
1573             (ii) of substantial loss of real property; or
1574             (iii) of substantial damage to real property.
1575             (22) "Hookup fee" means a fee for the installation and inspection of any pipe, line,
1576   meter, or appurtenance to connect to a county water, sewer, storm water, power, or other utility
1577   system.
1578             (23) "Identical plans" means building plans submitted to a county that:
1579             (a) are clearly marked as "identical plans";
1580             (b) are substantially identical building plans that were previously submitted to and
1581   reviewed and approved by the county; and
1582             (c) describe a building that:
1583             (i) is located on land zoned the same as the land on which the building described in the
1584   previously approved plans is located;
1585             (ii) is subject to the same geological and meteorological conditions and the same law
1586   as the building described in the previously approved plans;
1587             (iii) has a floor plan identical to the building plan previously submitted to and reviewed
1588   and approved by the county; and
1589             (iv) does not require any additional engineering or analysis.
1590             (24) "Impact fee" means a payment of money imposed under Title 11, Chapter 36a,
1591   Impact Fees Act.
1592             (25) "Improvement completion assurance" means a surety bond, letter of credit,
1593   financial institution bond, cash, assignment of rights, lien, or other equivalent security required
1594   by a county to guaranty the proper completion of landscaping or an infrastructure improvement
1595   required as a condition precedent to:
1596             (a) recording a subdivision plat; or
1597             (b) development of a commercial, industrial, mixed use, or multifamily project.




                                                          - 57 -
         H.B. 462                                                                       Enrolled Copy
1598          (26) "Improvement warranty" means an applicant's unconditional warranty that the
1599   applicant's installed and accepted landscaping or infrastructure improvement:
1600          (a) complies with the county's written standards for design, materials, and
1601   workmanship; and
1602          (b) will not fail in any material respect, as a result of poor workmanship or materials,
1603   within the improvement warranty period.
1604          (27) "Improvement warranty period" means a period:
1605          (a) no later than one year after a county's acceptance of required landscaping; or
1606          (b) no later than one year after a county's acceptance of required infrastructure, unless
1607   the county:
1608          (i) determines for good cause that a one-year period would be inadequate to protect the
1609   public health, safety, and welfare; and
1610          (ii) has substantial evidence, on record:
1611          (A) of prior poor performance by the applicant; or
1612          (B) that the area upon which the infrastructure will be constructed contains suspect soil
1613   and the county has not otherwise required the applicant to mitigate the suspect soil.
1614          (28) "Infrastructure improvement" means permanent infrastructure that is essential for
1615   the public health and safety or that:
1616          (a) is required for human consumption; and
1617          (b) an applicant must install:
1618          (i) in accordance with published installation and inspection specifications for public
1619   improvements; and
1620          (ii) as a condition of:
1621          (A) recording a subdivision plat;
1622          (B) obtaining a building permit; or
1623          (C) developing a commercial, industrial, mixed use, condominium, or multifamily
1624   project.
1625          (29) "Internal lot restriction" means a platted note, platted demarcation, or platted




                                                      - 58 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                            H.B. 462
1626   designation that:
1627           (a) runs with the land; and
1628           (b) (i) creates a restriction that is enclosed within the perimeter of a lot described on
1629   the plat; or
1630           (ii) designates a development condition that is enclosed within the perimeter of a lot
1631   described on the plat.
1632           (30) "Interstate pipeline company" means a person or entity engaged in natural gas
1633   transportation subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission under
1634   the Natural Gas Act, 15 U.S.C. Sec. 717 et seq.
1635           (31) "Intrastate pipeline company" means a person or entity engaged in natural gas
1636   transportation that is not subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory
1637   Commission under the Natural Gas Act, 15 U.S.C. Sec. 717 et seq.
1638           (32) "Land use applicant" means a property owner, or the property owner's designee,
1639   who submits a land use application regarding the property owner's land.
1640           (33) "Land use application":
1641           (a) means an application that is:
1642           (i) required by a county; and
1643           (ii) submitted by a land use applicant to obtain a land use decision; and
1644           (b) does not mean an application to enact, amend, or repeal a land use regulation.
1645           (34) "Land use authority" means:
1646           (a) a person, board, commission, agency, or body, including the local legislative body,
1647   designated by the local legislative body to act upon a land use application; or
1648           (b) if the local legislative body has not designated a person, board, commission,
1649   agency, or body, the local legislative body.
1650           (35) "Land use decision" means an administrative decision of a land use authority or
1651   appeal authority regarding:
1652           (a) a land use permit;
1653           (b) a land use application; or




                                                       - 59 -
         H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
1654           (c) the enforcement of a land use regulation, land use permit, or development
1655   agreement.
1656           (36) "Land use permit" means a permit issued by a land use authority.
1657           (37) "Land use regulation":
1658           (a) means a legislative decision enacted by ordinance, law, code, map, resolution,
1659   specification, fee, or rule that governs the use or development of land;
1660           (b) includes the adoption or amendment of a zoning map or the text of the zoning code;
1661   and
1662           (c) does not include:
1663           (i) a land use decision of the legislative body acting as the land use authority, even if
1664   the decision is expressed in a resolution or ordinance; or
1665           (ii) a temporary revision to an engineering specification that does not materially:
1666           (A) increase a land use applicant's cost of development compared to the existing
1667   specification; or
1668           (B) impact a land use applicant's use of land.
1669           (38) "Legislative body" means the county legislative body, or for a county that has
1670   adopted an alternative form of government, the body exercising legislative powers.
1671           (39) "Local district" means any entity under Title 17B, Limited Purpose Local
1672   Government Entities - Local Districts, and any other governmental or quasi-governmental
1673   entity that is not a county, municipality, school district, or the state.
1674           (40) "Lot" means a tract of land, regardless of any label, that is created by and shown
1675   on a subdivision plat that has been recorded in the office of the county recorder.
1676           (41) (a) "Lot line adjustment" means a relocation of a lot line boundary between
1677   adjoining lots or between a lot and adjoining parcels in accordance with Section 17-27a-608:
1678           (i) whether or not the lots are located in the same subdivision; and
1679           (ii) with the consent of the owners of record.
1680           (b) "Lot line adjustment" does not mean a new boundary line that:
1681           (i) creates an additional lot; or




                                                         - 60 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                           H.B. 462
1682          (ii) constitutes a subdivision.
1683          (c) "Lot line adjustment" does not include a boundary line adjustment made by the
1684   Department of Transportation.
1685          (42) "Major transit investment corridor" means public transit service that uses or
1686   occupies:
1687          (a) public transit rail right-of-way;
1688          (b) dedicated road right-of-way for the use of public transit, such as bus rapid transit;
1689   or
1690          (c) fixed-route bus corridors subject to an interlocal agreement or contract between a
1691   municipality or county and:
1692          (i) a public transit district as defined in Section 17B-2a-802; or
1693          (ii) an eligible political subdivision as defined in Section 59-12-2219.
1694          (43) "Moderate income housing" means housing occupied or reserved for occupancy
1695   by households with a gross household income equal to or less than 80% of the median gross
1696   income for households of the same size in the county in which the housing is located.
1697          (44) "Mountainous planning district" means an area designated by a county legislative
1698   body in accordance with Section 17-27a-901.
1699          (45) "Nominal fee" means a fee that reasonably reimburses a county only for time spent
1700   and expenses incurred in:
1701          (a) verifying that building plans are identical plans; and
1702          (b) reviewing and approving those minor aspects of identical plans that differ from the
1703   previously reviewed and approved building plans.
1704          (46) "Noncomplying structure" means a structure that:
1705          (a) legally existed before the structure's current land use designation; and
1706          (b) because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does not conform
1707   to the setback, height restrictions, or other regulations, excluding those regulations that govern
1708   the use of land.
1709          (47) "Nonconforming use" means a use of land that:




                                                      - 61 -
         H.B. 462                                                                       Enrolled Copy
1710           (a) legally existed before the current land use designation;
1711           (b) has been maintained continuously since the time the land use ordinance regulation
1712   governing the land changed; and
1713           (c) because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does not conform
1714   to the regulations that now govern the use of the land.
1715           (48) "Official map" means a map drawn by county authorities and recorded in the
1716   county recorder's office that:
1717           (a) shows actual and proposed rights-of-way, centerline alignments, and setbacks for
1718   highways and other transportation facilities;
1719           (b) provides a basis for restricting development in designated rights-of-way or between
1720   designated setbacks to allow the government authorities time to purchase or otherwise reserve
1721   the land; and
1722           (c) has been adopted as an element of the county's general plan.
1723           (49) "Parcel" means any real property that is not a lot.
1724           (50) (a) "Parcel boundary adjustment" means a recorded agreement between owners of
1725   adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary, either by deed or by a boundary line
1726   agreement in accordance with Section 17-27a-523, if no additional parcel is created and:
1727           (i) none of the property identified in the agreement is a lot; or
1728           (ii) the adjustment is to the boundaries of a single person's parcels.
1729           (b) "Parcel boundary adjustment" does not mean an adjustment of a parcel boundary
1730   line that:
1731           (i) creates an additional parcel; or
1732           (ii) constitutes a subdivision.
1733           (c) "Parcel boundary adjustment" does not include a boundary line adjustment made by
1734   the Department of Transportation.
1735           (51) "Person" means an individual, corporation, partnership, organization, association,
1736   trust, governmental agency, or any other legal entity.
1737           (52) "Plan for moderate income housing" means a written document adopted by a




                                                       - 62 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                          H.B. 462
1738   county legislative body that includes:
1739             (a) an estimate of the existing supply of moderate income housing located within the
1740   county;
1741             (b) an estimate of the need for moderate income housing in the county for the next five
1742   years;
1743             (c) a survey of total residential land use;
1744             (d) an evaluation of how existing land uses and zones affect opportunities for moderate
1745   income housing; and
1746             (e) a description of the county's program to encourage an adequate supply of moderate
1747   income housing.
1748             (53) "Planning advisory area" means a contiguous, geographically defined portion of
1749   the unincorporated area of a county established under this part with planning and zoning
1750   functions as exercised through the planning advisory area planning commission, as provided in
1751   this chapter, but with no legal or political identity separate from the county and no taxing
1752   authority.
1753             (54) "Plat" means an instrument subdividing property into lots as depicted on a map or
1754   other graphical representation of lands that a licensed professional land surveyor makes and
1755   prepares in accordance with Section 17-27a-603 or 57-8-13.
1756             (55) "Potential geologic hazard area" means an area that:
1757             (a) is designated by a Utah Geological Survey map, county geologist map, or other
1758   relevant map or report as needing further study to determine the area's potential for geologic
1759   hazard; or
1760             (b) has not been studied by the Utah Geological Survey or a county geologist but
1761   presents the potential of geologic hazard because the area has characteristics similar to those of
1762   a designated geologic hazard area.
1763             (56) "Public agency" means:
1764             (a) the federal government;
1765             (b) the state;




                                                         - 63 -
         H.B. 462                                                                           Enrolled Copy
1766           (c) a county, municipality, school district, local district, special service district, or other
1767   political subdivision of the state; or
1768           (d) a charter school.
1769           (57) "Public hearing" means a hearing at which members of the public are provided a
1770   reasonable opportunity to comment on the subject of the hearing.
1771           (58) "Public meeting" means a meeting that is required to be open to the public under
1772   Title 52, Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings Act.
1773           (59) "Public street" means a public right-of-way, including a public highway, public
1774   avenue, public boulevard, public parkway, public road, public lane, public alley, public
1775   viaduct, public subway, public tunnel, public bridge, public byway, other public transportation
1776   easement, or other public way.
1777           (60) "Receiving zone" means an unincorporated area of a county that the county
1778   designates, by ordinance, as an area in which an owner of land may receive a transferable
1779   development right.
1780           (61) "Record of survey map" means a map of a survey of land prepared in accordance
1781   with Section 10-9a-603, 17-23-17, 17-27a-603, or 57-8-13.
1782           (62) "Residential facility for persons with a disability" means a residence:
1783           (a) in which more than one person with a disability resides; and
1784           (b) (i) which is licensed or certified by the Department of Human Services under Title
1785   62A, Chapter 2, Licensure of Programs and Facilities; or
1786           (ii) which is licensed or certified by the Department of Health under Title 26, Chapter
1787   21, Health Care Facility Licensing and Inspection Act.
1788           (63) "Rules of order and procedure" means a set of rules that govern and prescribe in a
1789   public meeting:
1790           (a) parliamentary order and procedure;
1791           (b) ethical behavior; and
1792           (c) civil discourse.
1793           (64) "Sanitary sewer authority" means the department, agency, or public entity with




                                                        - 64 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                             H.B. 462
1794   responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of sanitary sewer services or onsite
1795   wastewater systems.
1796          (65) "Sending zone" means an unincorporated area of a county that the county
1797   designates, by ordinance, as an area from which an owner of land may transfer a transferable
1798   development right.
1799          (66) "Site plan" means a document or map that may be required by a county during a
1800   preliminary review preceding the issuance of a building permit to demonstrate that an owner's
1801   or developer's proposed development activity meets a land use requirement.
1802          (67) "Specified public agency" means:
1803          (a) the state;
1804          (b) a school district; or
1805          (c) a charter school.
1806          (68) "Specified public utility" means an electrical corporation, gas corporation, or
1807   telephone corporation, as those terms are defined in Section 54-2-1.
1808          (69) "State" includes any department, division, or agency of the state.
1809          (70) (a) "Subdivision" means any land that is divided, resubdivided, or proposed to be
1810   divided into two or more lots or other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or
1811   future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on the installment plan or upon any and all
1812   other plans, terms, and conditions.
1813          (b) "Subdivision" includes:
1814          (i) the division or development of land, whether by deed, metes and bounds
1815   description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded instrument, regardless of whether
1816   the division includes all or a portion of a parcel or lot; and
1817          (ii) except as provided in Subsection (70)(c), divisions of land for residential and
1818   nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for commercial, agricultural, and
1819   industrial purposes.
1820          (c) "Subdivision" does not include:
1821          (i) a bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for agricultural purposes;




                                                        - 65 -
         H.B. 462                                                                        Enrolled Copy
1822          (ii) a boundary line agreement recorded with the county recorder's office between
1823   owners of adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary in accordance with Section
1824   17-27a-523 if no new lot is created;
1825          (iii) a recorded document, executed by the owner of record:
1826          (A) revising the legal descriptions of multiple parcels into one legal description
1827   encompassing all such parcels; or
1828          (B) joining a lot to a parcel;
1829          (iv) a bona fide division or partition of land in a county other than a first class county
1830   for the purpose of siting, on one or more of the resulting separate parcels:
1831          (A) an electrical transmission line or a substation;
1832          (B) a natural gas pipeline or a regulation station; or
1833          (C) an unmanned telecommunications, microwave, fiber optic, electrical, or other
1834   utility service regeneration, transformation, retransmission, or amplification facility;
1835          (v) a boundary line agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided properties
1836   adjusting the mutual lot line boundary in accordance with Sections 17-27a-523 and 17-27a-608
1837   if:
1838          (A) no new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from the adjustment; and
1839          (B) the adjustment will not violate any applicable land use ordinance;
1840          (vi) a bona fide division of land by deed or other instrument if the deed or other
1841   instrument states in writing that the division:
1842          (A) is in anticipation of future land use approvals on the parcel or parcels;
1843          (B) does not confer any land use approvals; and
1844          (C) has not been approved by the land use authority;
1845          (vii) a parcel boundary adjustment;
1846          (viii) a lot line adjustment;
1847          (ix) a road, street, or highway dedication plat;
1848          (x) a deed or easement for a road, street, or highway purpose; or
1849          (xi) any other division of land authorized by law.




                                                         - 66 -
        Enrolled Copy                                                                          H.B. 462
1850          (71) "Subdivision amendment" means an amendment to a recorded subdivision in
1851   accordance with Section 17-27a-608 that:
1852          (a) vacates all or a portion of the subdivision;
1853          (b) alters the outside boundary of the subdivision;
1854          (c) changes the number of lots within the subdivision;
1855          (d) alters a public right-of-way, a public easement, or public infrastructure within the
1856   subdivision; or
1857          (e) alters a common area or other common amenity within the subdivision.
1858          (72) "Substantial evidence" means evidence that:
1859          (a) is beyond a scintilla; and
1860          (b) a reasonable mind would accept as adequate to support a conclusion.
1861          (73) "Suspect soil" means soil that has:
1862          (a) a high susceptibility for volumetric change, typically clay rich, having more than a
1863   3% swell potential;
1864          (b) bedrock units with high shrink or swell susceptibility; or
1865          (c) gypsiferous silt and clay, gypsum, or bedrock units containing abundant gypsum
1866   commonly associated with dissolution and collapse features.
1867          (74) "Therapeutic school" means a residential group living facility:
1868          (a) for four or more individuals who are not related to:
1869          (i) the owner of the facility; or
1870          (ii) the primary service provider of the facility;
1871          (b) that serves students who have a history of failing to function:
1872          (i) at home;
1873          (ii) in a public school; or
1874          (iii) in a nonresidential private school; and
1875          (c) that offers:
1876          (i) room and board; and
1877          (ii) an academic education integrated with:




                                                      - 67 -
         H.B. 462                                                                       Enrolled Copy
1878          (A) specialized structure and supervision; or
1879          (B) services or treatment related to a disability, an emotional development, a
1880   behavioral development, a familial development, or a social development.
1881          (75) "Transferable development right" means a right to develop and use land that
1882   originates by an ordinance that authorizes a land owner in a designated sending zone to transfer
1883   land use rights from a designated sending zone to a designated receiving zone.
1884          (76) "Unincorporated" means the area outside of the incorporated area of a
1885   municipality.
1886          (77) "Water interest" means any right to the beneficial use of water, including:
1887          (a) each of the rights listed in Section 73-1-11; and
1888          (b) an ownership interest in the right to the beneficial use of water represented by:
1889          (i) a contract; or
1890          (ii) a share in a water company, as defined in Section 73-3-3.5.
1891          (78) "Zoning map" means a map, adopted as part of a land use ordinance, that depicts
1892   land use zones, overlays, or districts.
1893          Section 11. Section 17-27a-401 is amended to read:
1894          17-27a-401. General plan required -- Content -- Resource management plan --
1895   Provisions related to radioactive waste facility.
1896          (1) To accomplish the purposes of this chapter, each county shall prepare and adopt a
1897   comprehensive, long-range general plan:
1898          (a) for present and future needs of the county;
1899          (b) (i) for growth and development of all or any part of the land within the
1900   unincorporated portions of the county; or
1901          (ii) if a county has designated a mountainous planning district, for growth and
1902   development of all or any part of the land within the mountainous planning district; and
1903          (c) as a basis for communicating and coordinating with the federal government on land
1904   and resource management issues.
1905          (2) To promote health, safety, and welfare, the general plan may provide for:




                                                     - 68 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                          H.B. 462
1906          (a) health, general welfare, safety, energy conservation, transportation, prosperity, civic
1907   activities, aesthetics, and recreational, educational, and cultural opportunities;
1908          (b) the reduction of the waste of physical, financial, or human resources that result
1909   from either excessive congestion or excessive scattering of population;
1910          (c) the efficient and economical use, conservation, and production of the supply of:
1911          (i) food and water; and
1912          (ii) drainage, sanitary, and other facilities and resources;
1913          (d) the use of energy conservation and solar and renewable energy resources;
1914          (e) the protection of urban development;
1915          (f) the protection and promotion of air quality;
1916          (g) historic preservation;
1917          (h) identifying future uses of land that are likely to require an expansion or significant
1918   modification of services or facilities provided by each affected entity; and
1919          (i) an official map.
1920          [(3) (a) The general plan shall:]
1921          [(i) allow and plan for moderate income housing growth; and]
1922          (3) (a) (i) The general plan of a specified county, as defined in Section 17-27a-408,
1923   shall include a moderate income housing element that meets the requirements of Subsection
1924   17-27a-403(2)(a)(iii).
1925          [(ii) contain a resource management plan for the public lands, as defined in Section
1926   63L-6-102, within the county.]
1927          [(b)] (ii) On or before [December 1, 2019, a] October 1, 2022, a specified county, as
1928   defined in Section 17-27a-408, with a general plan that does not comply with Subsection
1929   (3)(a)(i) shall amend the general plan to comply with Subsection (3)(a)(i).
1930          (b) The general plan shall contain a resource management plan for the public lands, as
1931   defined in Section 63L-6-102, within the county.
1932          (c) The resource management plan described in Subsection [(3)(a)(ii)] (3)(b) shall
1933   address:




                                                       - 69 -
       H.B. 462                                                                     Enrolled Copy
1934       (i) mining;
1935       (ii) land use;
1936       (iii) livestock and grazing;
1937       (iv) irrigation;
1938       (v) agriculture;
1939       (vi) fire management;
1940       (vii) noxious weeds;
1941       (viii) forest management;
1942       (ix) water rights;
1943       (x) ditches and canals;
1944       (xi) water quality and hydrology;
1945       (xii) flood plains and river terraces;
1946       (xiii) wetlands;
1947       (xiv) riparian areas;
1948       (xv) predator control;
1949       (xvi) wildlife;
1950       (xvii) fisheries;
1951       (xviii) recreation and tourism;
1952       (xix) energy resources;
1953       (xx) mineral resources;
1954       (xxi) cultural, historical, geological, and paleontological resources;
1955       (xxii) wilderness;
1956       (xxiii) wild and scenic rivers;
1957       (xxiv) threatened, endangered, and sensitive species;
1958       (xxv) land access;
1959       (xxvi) law enforcement;
1960       (xxvii) economic considerations; and
1961       (xxviii) air.




                                                    - 70 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                                H.B. 462
1962            (d) For each item listed under Subsection (3)(c), a county's resource management plan
1963   shall:
1964            (i) establish findings pertaining to the item;
1965            (ii) establish defined objectives; and
1966            (iii) outline general policies and guidelines on how the objectives described in
1967   Subsection (3)(d)(ii) are to be accomplished.
1968            (4) (a) (i) The general plan shall include specific provisions related to any areas within,
1969   or partially within, the exterior boundaries of the county, or contiguous to the boundaries of a
1970   county, which are proposed for the siting of a storage facility or transfer facility for the
1971   placement of high-level nuclear waste or greater than class C radioactive nuclear waste, as
1972   these wastes are defined in Section 19-3-303.
1973            (ii) The provisions described in Subsection (4)(a)(i) shall address the effects of the
1974   proposed site upon the health and general welfare of citizens of the state, and shall provide:
1975            [(i)] (A) the information identified in Section 19-3-305;
1976            [(ii)] (B) information supported by credible studies that demonstrates that the
1977   provisions of Subsection 19-3-307(2) have been satisfied; and
1978            [(iii)] (C) specific measures to mitigate the effects of high-level nuclear waste and
1979   greater than class C radioactive waste and guarantee the health and safety of the citizens of the
1980   state.
1981            (b) A county may, in lieu of complying with Subsection (4)(a), adopt an ordinance
1982   indicating that all proposals for the siting of a storage facility or transfer facility for the
1983   placement of high-level nuclear waste or greater than class C radioactive waste wholly or
1984   partially within the county are rejected.
1985            (c) A county may adopt the ordinance listed in Subsection (4)(b) at any time.
1986            (d) The county shall send a certified copy of the ordinance described in Subsection
1987   (4)(b) to the executive director of the Department of Environmental Quality by certified mail
1988   within 30 days of enactment.
1989            (e) If a county repeals an ordinance adopted under Subsection (4)(b) the county shall:




                                                         - 71 -
         H.B. 462                                                                      Enrolled Copy
1990          (i) comply with Subsection (4)(a) as soon as reasonably possible; and
1991          (ii) send a certified copy of the repeal to the executive director of the Department of
1992   Environmental Quality by certified mail within 30 days after the repeal.
1993          (5) The general plan may define the county's local customs, local culture, and the
1994   components necessary for the county's economic stability.
1995          (6) Subject to Subsection 17-27a-403(2), the county may determine the
1996   comprehensiveness, extent, and format of the general plan.
1997          (7) If a county has designated a mountainous planning district, the general plan for the
1998   mountainous planning district is the controlling plan.
1999          (8) Nothing in this part may be construed to limit the authority of the state to manage
2000   and protect wildlife under Title 23, Wildlife Resources Code of Utah.
2001          Section 12. Section 17-27a-403 is amended to read:
2002          17-27a-403. Plan preparation.
2003          (1) (a) The planning commission shall provide notice, as provided in Section
2004   17-27a-203, of [its] the planning commission's intent to make a recommendation to the county
2005   legislative body for a general plan or a comprehensive general plan amendment when the
2006   planning commission initiates the process of preparing [its] the planning commission's
2007   recommendation.
2008          (b) The planning commission shall make and recommend to the legislative body a
2009   proposed general plan for:
2010          (i) the unincorporated area within the county; or
2011          (ii) if the planning commission is a planning commission for a mountainous planning
2012   district, the mountainous planning district.
2013          (c) (i) The plan may include planning for incorporated areas if, in the planning
2014   commission's judgment, they are related to the planning of the unincorporated territory or of
2015   the county as a whole.
2016          (ii) Elements of the county plan that address incorporated areas are not an official plan
2017   or part of a municipal plan for any municipality, unless the county plan is recommended by the




                                                      - 72 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                               H.B. 462
2018   municipal planning commission and adopted by the governing body of the municipality.
2019          (2) (a) At a minimum, the proposed general plan, with the accompanying maps, charts,
2020   and descriptive and explanatory matter, shall include the planning commission's
2021   recommendations for the following plan elements:
2022          (i) a land use element that:
2023          (A) designates the long-term goals and the proposed extent, general distribution, and
2024   location of land for housing for residents of various income levels, business, industry,
2025   agriculture, recreation, education, public buildings and grounds, open space, and other
2026   categories of public and private uses of land as appropriate; and
2027          (B) [may include] includes a statement of the projections for and standards of
2028   population density and building intensity recommended for the various land use categories
2029   covered by the plan;
2030          (ii) a transportation and traffic circulation element that:
2031          (A) provides the general location and extent of existing and proposed freeways, arterial
2032   and collector streets, public transit, active transportation facilities, and other modes of
2033   transportation that the planning commission considers appropriate;
2034          (B) addresses the county's plan for residential and commercial development around
2035   major transit investment corridors to maintain and improve the connections between housing,
2036   employment, education, recreation, and commerce; and
2037          (C) correlates with the population projections, the employment projections, and the
2038   proposed land use element of the general plan;
2039          [(iii) a plan for the development of additional moderate income housing within the
2040   unincorporated area of the county or the mountainous planning district, and a plan to provide a
2041   realistic opportunity to meet the need for additional moderate income housing; and]
2042          (iii) for a specified county as defined in Section 17-27a-408, a moderate income
2043   housing element that:
2044          (A) provides a realistic opportunity to meet the need for additional moderate income
2045   housing within the next five years;




                                                       - 73 -
         H.B. 462                                                                       Enrolled Copy
2046          (B) selects three or more moderate income housing strategies described in Subsection
2047   (2)(b)(ii) for implementation; and
2048          (C) includes an implementation plan as provided in Subsection (2)(e); and
2049          (iv) [before May 1, 2017,] a resource management plan detailing the findings,
2050   objectives, and policies required by Subsection 17-27a-401(3).
2051          (b) In drafting the moderate income housing element, the planning commission:
2052          (i) shall consider the Legislature's determination that counties should facilitate a
2053   reasonable opportunity for a variety of housing, including moderate income housing:
2054          (A) to meet the needs of people of various income levels living, working, or desiring to
2055   live or work in the community; and
2056          (B) to allow people with various incomes to benefit from and fully participate in all
2057   aspects of neighborhood and community life; and
2058          (ii) shall include an analysis of how the county will provide a realistic opportunity for
2059   the development of moderate income housing within the planning horizon, [which may
2060   include] including a recommendation to implement three or more of the following moderate
2061   income housing strategies:
2062          (A) rezone for densities necessary to [assure] facilitate the production of moderate
2063   income housing;
2064          (B) [facilitate] demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation or expansion of
2065   infrastructure that [will encourage] facilitates the construction of moderate income housing;
2066          (C) [facilitate] demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation of existing uninhabitable
2067   housing stock into moderate income housing;
2068          (D) [consider] identify and utilize county general fund subsidies or other sources of
2069   revenue to waive construction related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the county
2070   for the construction or rehabilitation of moderate income housing;
2071          (E) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory
2072   dwelling units in residential zones;
2073          (F) [allow] zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential




                                                      - 74 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                            H.B. 462
2074   development in commercial [and] or mixed-use zones, commercial centers, or employment
2075   centers;
2076           (G) [encourage] amend land use regulations to allow for higher density or new
2077   moderate income residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit
2078   investment corridors;
2079           (H) amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking requirements for
2080   residential development where a resident is less likely to rely on the resident's own vehicle,
2081   such as residential development near major transit investment corridors or senior living
2082   facilities;
2083           (I) amend land use regulations to allow for single room occupancy developments;
2084           (J) implement zoning incentives for [low to] moderate income units in new
2085   developments;
2086           [(K) utilize strategies that preserve subsidized low to moderate income units on a
2087   long-term basis;]
2088           [(L)] (K) preserve existing and new moderate income housing and subsidized units by
2089   utilizing a landlord incentive program, providing for deed restricted units through a grant
2090   program, or establishing a housing loss mitigation fund;
2091           [(M)] (L) reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees[, as defined in Section 11-36a-102,]
2092   related to [low and] moderate income housing;
2093           [(N) participate in] (M) demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community land
2094   trust program for [low or] moderate income housing;
2095           [(O)] (N) implement a mortgage assistance program for employees of the county [or
2096   of], an employer that provides contracted services for the county, or any other public employer
2097   that operates within the county;
2098           [(P)] (O) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax
2099   incentives to promote the construction of moderate income housing, an entity that applies for
2100   programs offered by the Utah Housing Corporation within that agency's funding capacity, an
2101   entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered by the Department of




                                                       - 75 -
         H.B. 462                                                                       Enrolled Copy
2102   Workforce Services, an entity that applies for services provided by a public housing authority
2103   to preserve and create moderate income housing, or any other entity that applies for programs
2104   or services that promote the construction or preservation of moderate income housing;
2105          [(Q) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for programs offered by the Utah
2106   Housing Corporation within that agency's funding capacity;]
2107          [(R) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for affordable housing programs
2108   administered by the Department of Workforce Services;]
2109          [(S) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for services provided by a public
2110   housing authority to preserve and create moderate income housing;]
2111          [(T) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for programs administered by a
2112   metropolitan planning organization or other transportation agency that provides technical
2113   planning assistance;]
2114          [(U) utilize] (P) demonstrate utilization of a moderate income housing set aside from a
2115   community reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and
2116   renewal agency to create or subsidize moderate income housing; [and]
2117          (Q) create a housing and transit reinvestment zone pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 3,
2118   Part 6, Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act;
2119          (R) eliminate impact fees for any accessory dwelling unit that is not an internal
2120   accessory dwelling unit as defined in Section 10-9a-530;
2121          (S) create a program to transfer development rights for moderate income housing;
2122          (T) ratify a joint acquisition agreement with another local political subdivision for the
2123   purpose of combining resources to acquire property for moderate income housing;
2124          (U) develop a moderate income housing project for residents who are disabled or 55
2125   years old or older;
2126          (V) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multifamily residential
2127   dwellings compatible in scale and form with detached single-family residential dwellings and
2128   located in walkable communities within residential or mixed-use zones; and
2129          [(V) consider] (W) demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy




                                                     - 76 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                            H.B. 462
2130   [implemented by the county] to address the housing needs of residents of the county who earn
2131   less than 80% of the area median income, including the dedication of a local funding source to
2132   moderate income housing or the adoption of a land use ordinance that requires 10% or more of
2133   new residential development in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate income housing.
2134          (iii) If a specified county, as defined in Section 17-27a-408, has created a small public
2135   transit district, as defined in Section 17B-2a-802, on or before January 1, 2022, the specified
2136   county shall include as part of the specified county's recommended strategies under Subsection
2137   (2)(b)(ii) a recommendation to implement the strategy described in Subsection (2)(b)(ii)(Q).
2138          (c) In drafting the land use element, the planning commission shall:
2139          (i) identify and consider each agriculture protection area within the unincorporated area
2140   of the county or mountainous planning district; [and]
2141          (ii) avoid proposing a use of land within an agriculture protection area that is
2142   inconsistent with or detrimental to the use of the land for agriculture[.]; and
2143          (iii) consider and coordinate with any station area plans adopted by municipalities
2144   located within the county under Section 10-9a-403.1.
2145          (d) In drafting the transportation and traffic circulation element, the planning
2146   commission shall:
2147          (i) (A) consider and coordinate with the regional transportation plan developed by [its]
2148   the region's metropolitan planning organization, if the relevant areas of the county are within
2149   the boundaries of a metropolitan planning organization; or
2150          [(ii)] (B) consider and coordinate with the long-range transportation plan developed by
2151   the Department of Transportation, if the relevant areas of the county are not within the
2152   boundaries of a metropolitan planning organization[.]; and
2153          (ii) consider and coordinate with any station area plans adopted by municipalities
2154   located within the county under Section 10-9a-403.1.
2155          (e) (i) In drafting the implementation plan portion of the moderate income housing
2156   element as described in Subsection (2)(a)(iii)(C), the planning commission shall establish a
2157   timeline for implementing each of the moderate income housing strategies selected by the




                                                       - 77 -
         H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
2158   county for implementation.
2159          (ii) The timeline described in Subsection (2)(e)(i) shall:
2160          (A) identify specific measures and benchmarks for implementing each moderate
2161   income housing strategy selected by the county; and
2162          (B) provide flexibility for the county to make adjustments as needed.
2163          (3) The proposed general plan may include:
2164          (a) an environmental element that addresses:
2165          (i) to the extent not covered by the county's resource management plan, the protection,
2166   conservation, development, and use of natural resources, including the quality of air, forests,
2167   soils, rivers and other waters, harbors, fisheries, wildlife, minerals, and other natural resources;
2168   and
2169          (ii) the reclamation of land, flood control, prevention and control of the pollution of
2170   streams and other waters, regulation of the use of land on hillsides, stream channels and other
2171   environmentally sensitive areas, the prevention, control, and correction of the erosion of soils,
2172   protection of watersheds and wetlands, and the mapping of known geologic hazards;
2173          (b) a public services and facilities element showing general plans for sewage, water,
2174   waste disposal, drainage, public utilities, rights-of-way, easements, and facilities for them,
2175   police and fire protection, and other public services;
2176          (c) a rehabilitation, redevelopment, and conservation element consisting of plans and
2177   programs for:
2178          (i) historic preservation;
2179          (ii) the diminution or elimination of a development impediment as defined in Section
2180   17C-1-102; and
2181          (iii) redevelopment of land, including housing sites, business and industrial sites, and
2182   public building sites;
2183          (d) an economic element composed of appropriate studies and forecasts, as well as an
2184   economic development plan, which may include review of existing and projected county
2185   revenue and expenditures, revenue sources, identification of basic and secondary industry,




                                                       - 78 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                              H.B. 462
2186   primary and secondary market areas, employment, and retail sales activity;
2187             (e) recommendations for implementing all or any portion of the general plan, including
2188   the use of land use ordinances, capital improvement plans, community development and
2189   promotion, and any other appropriate action;
2190             (f) provisions addressing any of the matters listed in Subsection 17-27a-401(2) or
2191   (3)(a)(i); and
2192             (g) any other element the county considers appropriate.
2193             Section 13. Section 17-27a-404 is amended to read:
2194             17-27a-404. Public hearing by planning commission on proposed general plan or
2195   amendment -- Notice -- Revisions to general plan or amendment -- Adoption or rejection
2196   by legislative body.
2197             (1) (a) After completing its recommendation for a proposed general plan, or proposal to
2198   amend the general plan, the planning commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on
2199   the proposed plan or amendment.
2200             (b) The planning commission shall provide notice of the public hearing, as required by
2201   Section 17-27a-204.
2202             (c) After the public hearing, the planning commission may modify the proposed
2203   general plan or amendment.
2204             (2) The planning commission shall forward the proposed general plan or amendment to
2205   the legislative body.
2206             (3) (a) As provided by local ordinance and by Section 17-27a-204, the legislative body
2207   shall provide notice of its intent to consider the general plan proposal.
2208             (b) (i) In addition to the requirements of Subsections (1), (2), and (3)(a), the legislative
2209   body shall hold a public hearing in Salt Lake City on provisions of the proposed county plan
2210   regarding Subsection 17-27a-401(4). The hearing procedure shall comply with this Subsection
2211   (3)(b).
2212             (ii) The hearing format shall allow adequate time for public comment at the actual
2213   public hearing, and shall also allow for public comment in writing to be submitted to the




                                                         - 79 -
         H.B. 462                                                                          Enrolled Copy
2214   legislative body for not fewer than 90 days after the date of the public hearing.
2215          (c) (i) The legislative body shall give notice of the hearing in accordance with this
2216   Subsection (3) when the proposed plan provisions required by Subsection 17-27a-401(4) are
2217   complete.
2218          (ii) Direct notice of the hearing shall be given, in writing, to the governor, members of
2219   the state Legislature, executive director of the Department of Environmental Quality, the state
2220   planning coordinator, the Resource Development Coordinating Committee, and any other
2221   citizens or entities who specifically request notice in writing.
2222          (iii) Public notice shall be given by publication on the Utah Public Notice Website
2223   created in Section 63A-16-601.
2224          (iv) The notice shall be published to allow reasonable time for interested parties and
2225   the state to evaluate the information regarding the provisions of Subsection 17-27a-401(4),
2226   including publication described in Subsection (3)(c)(iii) for 180 days before the date of the
2227   hearing to be held under this Subsection (3).
2228          (4) (a) After the public hearing required under this section, the legislative body may
2229   adopt, reject, or make any revisions to the proposed general plan that it considers appropriate.
2230          (b) The legislative body shall respond in writing and in a substantive manner to all
2231   those providing comments as a result of the hearing required by Subsection (3).
2232          (c) If the county legislative body rejects the proposed general plan or amendment, it
2233   may provide suggestions to the planning commission for the planning commission's review and
2234   recommendation.
2235          (5) The legislative body shall adopt:
2236          (a) a land use element as provided in Subsection 17-27a-403(2)(a)(i);
2237          (b) a transportation and traffic circulation element as provided in Subsection
2238   17-27a-403(2)(a)(ii);
2239          [(c) after considering the factors included in Subsection 17-27a-403(2)(b), a plan to
2240   provide a realistic opportunity to meet the need for additional moderate income housing; and]
2241          (c) for a specified county as defined in Section 17-27-408, a moderate income housing




                                                       - 80 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                         H.B. 462
2242   element as provided in Subsection 17-27a-403(2)(a)(iii); and
2243          (d) [before August 1, 2017,] a resource management plan as provided by Subsection
2244   17-27a-403(2)(a)(iv).
2245          Section 14. Section 17-27a-408 is amended to read:
2246          17-27a-408. Moderate income housing report -- Contents -- Prioritization for
2247   funds or projects -- Ineligibility for funds after noncompliance -- Civil actions.
2248          [(1) The legislative body of each county of the first, second, or third class, which has a
2249   population in the county's unincorporated areas of more than 5,000 residents, shall annually:]
2250          [(a) review the moderate income housing plan element of the county's general plan and
2251   implementation of that element of the general plan;]
2252          [(b) prepare a report on the findings of the review described in Subsection (1)(a); and]
2253          [(c) post the report described in Subsection (1)(b) on the county's website.]
2254          [(2) The report described in Subsection (1) shall include:]
2255          [(a) a revised estimate of the need for moderate income housing in the unincorporated
2256   areas of the county for the next five years;]
2257          [(b) a description of progress made within the unincorporated areas of the county to
2258   provide moderate income housing demonstrated by analyzing and publishing data on the
2259   number of housing units in the county that are at or below:]
2260          [(i) 80% of the adjusted median family income;]
2261          [(ii) 50% of the adjusted median family income; and]
2262          [(iii) 30% of the adjusted median family income;]
2263          [(c) a description of any efforts made by the county to utilize a moderate income
2264   housing set-aside from a community reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or a
2265   community development and renewal agency; and]
2266          [(d) a description of how the county has implemented any of the recommendations
2267   related to moderate income housing described in Subsection 17-27a-403(2)(b)(ii).]
2268          [(3) The legislative body of each county described in Subsection (1) shall send a copy
2269   of the report under Subsection (1) to the Department of Workforce Services, the association of




                                                       - 81 -
         H.B. 462                                                                      Enrolled Copy
2270   governments in which the county is located, and, if the unincorporated area of the county is
2271   located within the boundaries of a metropolitan planning organization, the appropriate
2272   metropolitan planning organization.] (1) As used in this section:
2273          (a) "Division" means the Housing and Community Development Division within the
2274   Department of Workforce Services.
2275          (b) "Implementation plan" means the implementation plan adopted as part of the
2276   moderate income housing element of a specified county's general plan as provided in
2277   Subsection 10-9a-403(2)(c).
2278          (c) "Moderate income housing report" or "report" means the report described in
2279   Subsection (2)(a).
2280          (d) "Moderate income housing strategy" means a strategy described in Subsection
2281   17-27a-403(2)(b)(ii).
2282          (e) "Specified county" means a county of the first, second, or third class, which has a
2283   population of more than 5,000 in the county's unincorporated areas.
2284          (2) (a) Beginning in 2022, on or before October 1 of each calendar year, the legislative
2285   body of a specified county shall annually submit a written moderate income housing report to
2286   the division.
2287          (b) The moderate income housing report submitted in 2022 shall include:
2288          (i) a description of each moderate income housing strategy selected by the specified
2289   county for implementation; and
2290          (ii) an implementation plan.
2291          (c) The moderate income housing report submitted in each calendar year after 2022
2292   shall include:
2293          (i) the information required under Subsection (2)(b);
2294          (ii) a description of each action, whether one-time or ongoing, taken by the specified
2295   county during the previous fiscal year to implement the moderate income housing strategies
2296   selected by the specified county for implementation;
2297          (iii) a description of each land use regulation or land use decision made by the




                                                     - 82 -
        Enrolled Copy                                                                          H.B. 462
2298   specified county during the previous fiscal year to implement the moderate income housing
2299   strategies, including an explanation of how the land use regulation or land use decision
2300   supports the specified county's efforts to implement the moderate income housing strategies;
2301          (iv) a description of any barriers encountered by the specified county in the previous
2302   fiscal year in implementing the moderate income housing strategies; and
2303          (v) information regarding the number of internal and external or detached accessory
2304   dwelling units located within the specified county for which the specified county:
2305          (A) issued a building permit to construct; or
2306          (B) issued a business license to rent;
2307          (vi) a description of how the market has responded to the selected moderate income
2308   housing strategies, including the number of entitled moderate income housing units or other
2309   relevant data; and
2310          (vii) any recommendations on how the state can support the specified county in
2311   implementing the moderate income housing strategies.
2312          (d) The moderate income housing report shall be in a form:
2313          (i) approved by the division; and
2314          (ii) made available by the division on or before July 1 of the year in which the report is
2315   required.
2316          (3) Within 90 days after the day on which the division receives a specified county's
2317   moderate income housing report, the division shall:
2318          (a) post the report on the division's website;
2319          (b) send a copy of the report to the Department of Transportation, the Governor's
2320   Office of Planning and Budget, the association of governments in which the specified county is
2321   located, and, if the unincorporated area of the specified county is located within the boundaries
2322   of a metropolitan planning organization, the appropriate metropolitan planning organization;
2323   and
2324          (c) subject to Subsection (4), review the report to determine compliance with
2325   Subsection (2).




                                                       - 83 -
         H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
2326             (4) (a) The report described in Subsection (2)(b) complies with Subsection (2) if the
2327   report:
2328             (i) includes the information required under Subsection (2)(b);
2329             (ii) demonstrates to the division that the specified county made plans to implement
2330   three or more moderate income housing strategies; and
2331             (iii) is in a form approved by the division.
2332             (b) The report described in Subsection (2)(c) complies with Subsection (2) if the
2333   report:
2334             (i) includes the information required under Subsection (2)(c);
2335             (ii) demonstrates to the division that the specified county made plans to implement
2336   three or more moderate income housing strategies;
2337             (iii) is in a form approved by the division; and
2338             (iv) provides sufficient information for the division to:
2339             (A) assess the specified county's progress in implementing the moderate income
2340   housing strategies;
2341             (B) monitor compliance with the specified county's implementation plan;
2342             (C) identify a clear correlation between the specified county's land use decisions and
2343   efforts to implement the moderate income housing strategies; and
2344             (D) identify how the market has responded to the specified county's selected moderate
2345   income housing strategies.
2346             (5) (a) A specified county qualifies for priority consideration under this Subsection (5)
2347   if the specified county's moderate income housing report:
2348             (i) complies with Subsection (2); and
2349             (ii) demonstrates to the division that the specified county made plans to implement five
2350   or more moderate income housing strategies.
2351             (b) The following apply to a specified county described in Subsection (5)(a) during the
2352   fiscal year immediately following the fiscal year in which the report is required:
2353             (i) the Transportation Commission may give priority consideration to transportation




                                                         - 84 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                            H.B. 462
2354   projects located within the unincorporated areas of the specified county in accordance with
2355   Subsection 72-1-304(3)(c); and
2356          (ii) the Governor's Office of Planning and Budget may give priority consideration for
2357   awarding financial grants to the specified county under the COVID-19 Local Assistance
2358   Matching Grant Program in accordance with Subsection 63J-4-802(6).
2359          (c) Upon determining that a specified county qualifies for priority consideration under
2360   this Subsection (5), the division shall send a notice of prioritization to the legislative body of
2361   the specified county, the Department of Transportation, and the Governor's Office of Planning
2362   and Budget.
2363          (d) The notice described in Subsection (5)(c) shall:
2364          (i) name the specified county that qualifies for priority consideration;
2365          (ii) describe the funds or projects for which the specified county qualifies to receive
2366   priority consideration;
2367          (iii) specify the fiscal year during which the specified county qualifies for priority
2368   consideration; and
2369          (iv) state the basis for the division's determination that the specified county qualifies
2370   for priority consideration.
2371          (6) (a) If the division, after reviewing a specified county's moderate income housing
2372   report, determines that the report does not comply with Subsection (2), the division shall send a
2373   notice of noncompliance to the legislative body of the specified county.
2374          (b) The notice described in Subsection (6)(a) shall:
2375          (i) describe each deficiency in the report and the actions needed to cure each
2376   deficiency;
2377          (ii) state that the specified county has an opportunity to cure the deficiencies within 90
2378   days after the day on which the notice is sent; and
2379          (iii) state that failure to cure the deficiencies within 90 days after the day on which the
2380   notice is sent will result in ineligibility for funds under Subsection (7).
2381          (7) (a) A specified county is ineligible for funds under this Subsection (7) if the




                                                        - 85 -
         H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
2382   specified county:
2383          (i) fails to submit a moderate income housing report to the division; or
2384          (ii) fails to cure the deficiencies in the specified county's moderate income housing
2385   report within 90 days after the day on which the division sent to the specified county a notice of
2386   noncompliance under Subsection (6).
2387          (b) The following apply to a specified county described in Subsection (7)(a) during the
2388   fiscal year immediately following the fiscal year in which the report is required:
2389          (i) the executive director of the Department of Transportation may not program funds
2390   from the Transportation Investment Fund of 2005, including the Transit Transportation
2391   Investment Fund, to projects located within the unincorporated areas of the specified county in
2392   accordance with Subsection 72-2-124(6); and
2393          (ii) the Governor's Office of Planning and Budget may not award financial grants to the
2394   specified county under the COVID-19 Local Assistance Matching Grant Program in
2395   accordance with Subsection 63J-4-802(7).
2396          (c) Upon determining that a specified county is ineligible for funds under this
2397   Subsection (7), the division shall send a notice of ineligibility to the legislative body of the
2398   specified county, the Department of Transportation, and the Governor's Office of Planning and
2399   Budget.
2400          (d) The notice described in Subsection (7)(c) shall:
2401          (i) name the specified county that is ineligible for funds;
2402          (ii) describe the funds for which the specified county is ineligible to receive;
2403          (iii) specify the fiscal year during which the specified county is ineligible for funds;
2404   and
2405          (iv) state the basis for the division's determination that the specified county is ineligible
2406   for funds.
2407          [(4)] (8) In a civil action seeking enforcement or claiming a violation of this section or
2408   of Subsection 17-27a-404(5)(c), a plaintiff may not recover damages but may be awarded only
2409   injunctive or other equitable relief.




                                                       - 86 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                           H.B. 462
2410          Section 15. Section 17-27a-508 is amended to read:
2411          17-27a-508. Applicant's entitlement to land use application approval --
2412   Application relating to land in a high priority transportation corridor -- County's
2413   requirements and limitations -- Vesting upon submission of development plan and
2414   schedule.
2415          (1) (a) (i) An applicant who has submitted a complete land use application, including
2416   the payment of all application fees, is entitled to substantive review of the application under the
2417   land use regulations:
2418          (A) in effect on the date that the application is complete; and
2419          (B) applicable to the application or to the information shown on the submitted
2420   application.
2421          (ii) An applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the application
2422   conforms to the requirements of the applicable land use regulations, land use decisions, and
2423   development standards in effect when the applicant submits a complete application and pays all
2424   application fees, unless:
2425          (A) the land use authority, on the record, formally finds that a compelling,
2426   countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by approving the application and specifies
2427   the compelling, countervailing public interest in writing; or
2428          (B) in the manner provided by local ordinance and before the applicant submits the
2429   application, the county formally initiates proceedings to amend the county's land use
2430   regulations in a manner that would prohibit approval of the application as submitted.
2431          (b) The county shall process an application without regard to proceedings the county
2432   initiated to amend the county's ordinances as described in Subsection (1)(a)(ii)(B) if:
2433          (i) 180 days have passed since the county initiated the proceedings; and
2434          (ii) the proceedings have not resulted in an enactment that prohibits approval of the
2435   application as submitted.
2436          (c) A land use application is considered submitted and complete when the applicant
2437   provides the application in a form that complies with the requirements of applicable ordinances




                                                      - 87 -
         H.B. 462                                                                       Enrolled Copy
2438   and pays all applicable fees.
2439           (d) The continuing validity of an approval of a land use application is conditioned upon
2440   the applicant proceeding after approval to implement the approval with reasonable diligence.
2441           (e) A county may not impose on an applicant who has submitted a complete
2442   application a requirement that is not expressed:
2443           (i) in this chapter;
2444           (ii) in a county ordinance; or
2445           (iii) in a county specification for public improvements applicable to a subdivision or
2446   development that is in effect on the date that the applicant submits an application.
2447           (f) A county may not impose on a holder of an issued land use permit or a final,
2448   unexpired subdivision plat a requirement that is not expressed:
2449           (i) in a land use permit;
2450           (ii) on the subdivision plat;
2451           (iii) in a document on which the land use permit or subdivision plat is based;
2452           (iv) in the written record evidencing approval of the land use permit or subdivision
2453   plat;
2454           (v) in this chapter; or
2455           (vi) in a county ordinance.
2456           (g) Except as provided in Subsection (1)(h), a county may not withhold issuance of a
2457   certificate of occupancy or acceptance of subdivision improvements because of an applicant's
2458   failure to comply with a requirement that is not expressed:
2459           (i) in the building permit or subdivision plat, documents on which the building permit
2460   or subdivision plat is based, or the written record evidencing approval of the building permit or
2461   subdivision plat; or
2462           (ii) in this chapter or the county's ordinances.
2463           (h) A county may not unreasonably withhold issuance of a certificate of occupancy
2464   where an applicant has met all requirements essential for the public health, public safety, and
2465   general welfare of the occupants, in accordance with this chapter, unless:




                                                       - 88 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                          H.B. 462
2466          (i) the applicant and the county have agreed in a written document to the withholding
2467   of a certificate of occupancy; or
2468          (ii) the applicant has not provided a financial assurance for required and uncompleted
2469   landscaping or infrastructure improvements in accordance with an applicable ordinance that the
2470   legislative body adopts under this chapter.
2471          (2) A county is bound by the terms and standards of applicable land use regulations and
2472   shall comply with mandatory provisions of those regulations.
2473          (3) A county may not, as a condition of land use application approval, require a person
2474   filing a land use application to obtain documentation regarding a school district's willingness,
2475   capacity, or ability to serve the development proposed in the land use application.
2476          (4) (a) Except as provided in Subsection (4)(b), for a period of 10 years after the day on
2477   which a subdivision plat is recorded, a county may not impose on a building permit applicant
2478   for a single-family dwelling located within the subdivision any land use regulation that is
2479   enacted within 10 years after the day on which the subdivision plat is recorded.
2480          (b) Subsection (4)(a) does not apply to any changes in the requirements of the
2481   applicable building code, health code, or fire code, or other similar regulations.
2482          (5) Upon a specified public agency's submission of a development plan and schedule as
2483   required in Subsection 17-27a-305(8) that complies with the requirements of that subsection,
2484   the specified public agency vests in the county's applicable land use maps, zoning map, hookup
2485   fees, impact fees, other applicable development fees, and land use regulations in effect on the
2486   date of submission.
2487          (6) (a) If sponsors of a referendum timely challenge a project in accordance with
2488   Subsection 20A-7-601[(5)](6), the project's affected owner may rescind the project's land use
2489   approval by delivering a written notice:
2490          (i) to the local clerk as defined in Section 20A-7-101; and
2491          (ii) no later than seven days after the day on which a petition for a referendum is
2492   determined sufficient under Subsection 20A-7-607(4).
2493          (b) Upon delivery of a written notice described in Subsection (6)(a) the following are




                                                      - 89 -
         H.B. 462                                                                            Enrolled Copy
2494   rescinded and are of no further force or effect:
2495              (i) the relevant land use approval; and
2496              (ii) any land use regulation enacted specifically in relation to the land use approval.
2497              Section 16. Section 17B-2a-802 is amended to read:
2498              17B-2a-802. Definitions.
2499              As used in this part:
2500              (1) "Affordable housing" means housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by
2501   households that meet certain gross household income requirements based on the area median
2502   income for households of the same size.
2503              (a) "Affordable housing" may include housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by
2504   households that meet specific area median income targets or ranges of area median income
2505   targets.
2506              (b) "Affordable housing" does not include housing occupied or reserved for occupancy
2507   by households with gross household incomes that are more than 60% of the area median
2508   income for households of the same size.
2509              (2) "Appointing entity" means the person, county, unincorporated area of a county, or
2510   municipality appointing a member to a public transit district board of trustees.
2511              (3) (a) "Chief executive officer" means a person appointed by the board of trustees of a
2512   small public transit district to serve as chief executive officer.
2513              (b) "Chief executive officer" shall enjoy all the rights, duties, and responsibilities
2514   defined in Sections 17B-2a-810 and 17B-2a-811 and includes all rights, duties, and
2515   responsibilities assigned to the general manager but prescribed by the board of trustees to be
2516   fulfilled by the chief executive officer.
2517              (4) "Council of governments" means a decision-making body in each county composed
2518   of membership including the county governing body and the mayors of each municipality in the
2519   county.
2520              (5) "Department" means the Department of Transportation created in Section 72-1-201.
2521              (6) "Executive director" means a person appointed by the board of trustees of a large




                                                            - 90 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                              H.B. 462
2522   public transit district to serve as executive director.
2523             (7) (a) "General manager" means a person appointed by the board of trustees of a small
2524   public transit district to serve as general manager.
2525             (b) "General manager" shall enjoy all the rights, duties, and responsibilities defined in
2526   Sections 17B-2a-810 and 17B-2a-811 prescribed by the board of trustees of a small public
2527   transit district.
2528             (8) "Large public transit district" means a public transit district that provides public
2529   transit to an area that includes:
2530             (a) more than 65% of the population of the state based on the most recent official
2531   census or census estimate of the United States Census Bureau; and
2532             (b) two or more counties.
2533             (9) (a) "Locally elected public official" means a person who holds an elected position
2534   with a county or municipality.
2535             (b) "Locally elected public official" does not include a person who holds an elected
2536   position if the elected position is not with a county or municipality.
2537             (10) "Metropolitan planning organization" means the same as that term is defined in
2538   Section 72-1-208.5.
2539             (11) "Multicounty district" means a public transit district located in more than one
2540   county.
2541             (12) "Operator" means a public entity or other person engaged in the transportation of
2542   passengers for hire.
2543             (13) (a) "Public transit" means regular, continuing, shared-ride, surface transportation
2544   services that are open to the general public or open to a segment of the general public defined
2545   by age, disability, or low income.
2546             (b) "Public transit" does not include transportation services provided by:
2547             (i) chartered bus;
2548             (ii) sightseeing bus;
2549             (iii) taxi;




                                                         - 91 -
         H.B. 462                                                                            Enrolled Copy
2550           (iv) school bus service;
2551           (v) courtesy shuttle service for patrons of one or more specific establishments; or
2552           (vi) intra-terminal or intra-facility shuttle services.
2553           (14) "Public transit district" means a local district that provides public transit services.
2554           (15) "Small public transit district" means any public transit district that is not a large
2555   public transit district.
2556           [(16) "Station area plan" means a plan adopted by the relevant municipality or county
2557   that establishes and preserves a vision for areas within one-half mile of a fixed guideway
2558   station of a large public transit district, the development of which includes:]
2559           [(a) involvement of all relevant stakeholders who have an interest in the station area,
2560   including relevant metropolitan planning organizations;]
2561           [(b) identification of major infrastructural and policy constraints and a course of action
2562   to address those constraints; and]
2563           [(c) other criteria as determined by the board of trustees of the relevant public transit
2564   district.]
2565           (16) "Station area plan" means a plan developed and adopted by a municipality in
2566   accordance with Section 10-9a-403.1.
2567           (17) "Transit facility" means a transit vehicle, transit station, depot, passenger loading
2568   or unloading zone, parking lot, or other facility:
2569           (a) leased by or operated by or on behalf of a public transit district; and
2570           (b) related to the public transit services provided by the district, including:
2571           (i) railway or other right-of-way;
2572           (ii) railway line; and
2573           (iii) a reasonable area immediately adjacent to a designated stop on a route traveled by
2574   a transit vehicle.
2575           (18) "Transit vehicle" means a passenger bus, coach, railcar, van, or other vehicle
2576   operated as public transportation by a public transit district.
2577           (19) "Transit-oriented development" means a mixed use residential or commercial area




                                                        - 92 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                             H.B. 462
2578   that is designed to maximize access to public transit and includes the development of land
2579   owned by a large public transit district.
2580          (20) "Transit-supportive development" means a mixed use residential or commercial
2581   area that is designed to maximize access to public transit and does not include the development
2582   of land owned by a large public transit district.
2583          Section 17. Section 17B-2a-804 is amended to read:
2584          17B-2a-804. Additional public transit district powers.
2585          (1) In addition to the powers conferred on a public transit district under Section
2586   17B-1-103, a public transit district may:
2587          (a) provide a public transit system for the transportation of passengers and their
2588   incidental baggage;
2589          (b) notwithstanding Subsection 17B-1-103(2)(g) and subject to Section 17B-2a-817,
2590   levy and collect property taxes only for the purpose of paying:
2591          (i) principal and interest of bonded indebtedness of the public transit district; or
2592          (ii) a final judgment against the public transit district if:
2593          (A) the amount of the judgment exceeds the amount of any collectable insurance or
2594   indemnity policy; and
2595          (B) the district is required by a final court order to levy a tax to pay the judgment;
2596          (c) insure against:
2597          (i) loss of revenues from damage to or destruction of some or all of a public transit
2598   system from any cause;
2599          (ii) public liability;
2600          (iii) property damage; or
2601          (iv) any other type of event, act, or omission;
2602          (d) acquire, contract for, lease, construct, own, operate, control, or use:
2603          (i) a right-of-way, rail line, monorail, bus line, station, platform, switchyard, terminal,
2604   parking lot, or any other facility necessary or convenient for public transit service; or
2605          (ii) any structure necessary for access by persons and vehicles;




                                                       - 93 -
         H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
2606           (e) (i) hire, lease, or contract for the supplying or management of a facility, operation,
2607   equipment, service, employee, or management staff of an operator; and
2608           (ii) provide for a sublease or subcontract by the operator upon terms that are in the
2609   public interest;
2610           (f) operate feeder bus lines and other feeder or ridesharing services as necessary;
2611           (g) accept a grant, contribution, or loan, directly through the sale of securities or
2612   equipment trust certificates or otherwise, from the United States, or from a department,
2613   instrumentality, or agency of the United States;
2614           (h) study and plan transit facilities in accordance with any legislation passed by
2615   Congress;
2616           (i) cooperate with and enter into an agreement with the state or an agency of the state
2617   or otherwise contract to finance to establish transit facilities and equipment or to study or plan
2618   transit facilities;
2619           (j) subject to Subsection 17B-2a-808.1(5), issue bonds as provided in and subject to
2620   Chapter 1, Part 11, Local District Bonds, to carry out the purposes of the district;
2621           (k) from bond proceeds or any other available funds, reimburse the state or an agency
2622   of the state for an advance or contribution from the state or state agency;
2623           (l) do anything necessary to avail itself of any aid, assistance, or cooperation available
2624   under federal law, including complying with labor standards and making arrangements for
2625   employees required by the United States or a department, instrumentality, or agency of the
2626   United States;
2627           (m) sell or lease property;
2628           (n) except as provided in Subsection (2)(b), assist in or operate transit-oriented or
2629   transit-supportive developments;
2630           (o) establish, finance, participate as a limited partner or member in a development with
2631   limited liabilities in accordance with Subsection (1)(p), construct, improve, maintain, or
2632   operate transit facilities, equipment, and, in accordance with Subsection (3), transit-oriented
2633   developments or transit-supportive developments; and




                                                       - 94 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                             H.B. 462
2634           (p) subject to the restrictions and requirements in Subsections (2) and (3), assist in a
2635   transit-oriented development or a transit-supportive development in connection with project
2636   area development as defined in Section 17C-1-102 by:
2637           (i) investing in a project as a limited partner or a member, with limited liabilities; or
2638           (ii) subordinating an ownership interest in real property owned by the public transit
2639   district.
2640           (2) (a) A public transit district may only assist in the development of areas under
2641   Subsection (1)(p) that have been approved by the board of trustees, and in the manners
2642   described in Subsection (1)(p).
2643           (b) A public transit district may not invest in a transit-oriented development or
2644   transit-supportive development as a limited partner or other limited liability entity under the
2645   provisions of Subsection (1)(p)(i), unless the partners, developer, or other investor in the entity,
2646   makes an equity contribution equal to no less than 25% of the appraised value of the property
2647   to be contributed by the public transit district.
2648           (c) (i) For transit-oriented development projects, a public transit district shall adopt
2649   transit-oriented development policies and guidelines that include provisions on affordable
2650   housing.
2651           (ii) For transit-supportive development projects, a public transit district shall work with
2652   the metropolitan planning organization and city and county governments where the project is
2653   located to collaboratively seek to create joint plans for the areas within one-half mile of transit
2654   stations, including plans for affordable housing.
2655           (d) A current board member of a public transit district to which the board member is
2656   appointed may not have any interest in the transactions engaged in by the public transit district
2657   pursuant to Subsection (1)(p)(i) or (ii), except as may be required by the board member's
2658   fiduciary duty as a board member.
2659           (3) For any transit-oriented development or transit-supportive development authorized
2660   in this section, the public transit district shall:
2661           (a) perform a cost-benefit analysis of the monetary investment and expenditures of the




                                                             - 95 -
         H.B. 462                                                                      Enrolled Copy
2662   development, including effect on:
2663          (i) service and ridership;
2664          (ii) regional plans made by the metropolitan planning agency;
2665          (iii) the local economy;
2666          (iv) the environment and air quality;
2667          (v) affordable housing; and
2668          (vi) integration with other modes of transportation; and
2669          (b) provide evidence to the public of a quantifiable positive return on investment,
2670   including improvements to public transit service.
2671          (4) A public transit district may [not] participate in a transit-oriented development only
2672   if:
2673          (a) for a transit-oriented development involving a municipality:
2674          (i) the relevant municipality [or county] has [not] developed and adopted a station area
2675   plan; and
2676          [(b) (i) for a transit-oriented development involving a municipality,]
2677          (ii) the municipality is [not] in compliance with Sections 10-9a-403 and 10-9a-408
2678   regarding the inclusion of moderate income housing in the general plan and the required
2679   reporting requirements; or
2680          [(ii)] (b) for a transit-oriented development involving property in an unincorporated
2681   area of a county, the county is [not] in compliance with Sections 17-27a-403 and 17-27a-408
2682   regarding inclusion of moderate income housing in the general plan and required reporting
2683   requirements.
2684          (5) A public transit district may be funded from any combination of federal, state,
2685   local, or private funds.
2686          (6) A public transit district may not acquire property by eminent domain.
2687          Section 18. Section 20A-7-601 is amended to read:
2688          20A-7-601. Referenda -- General signature requirements -- Signature
2689   requirements for land use laws, subjurisdictional laws, and transit area land use laws --




                                                      - 96 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                            H.B. 462
2690   Time requirements.
2691          (1) As used in this section:
2692          (a) "Number of active voters" means the number of active voters in the county, city, or
2693   town on the immediately preceding January 1.
2694          (b) "Qualifying county" means a county that has created a small public transit district,
2695   as defined in Section 17B-2a-802, on or before January 1, 2022.
2696          (c) "Qualifying transit area" means:
2697          (i) a station area, as defined in Section 10-9a-403.1, for which the municipality with
2698   jurisdiction over the station area has satisfied the requirements of Subsection
2699   10-9a-403.1(2)(a), as demonstrated by the adoption of a station area plan or resolution under
2700   Subsection 10-9a-403.1(2); or
2701          (ii) a housing and transit reinvestment zone, as defined in Section 63N-3-602, created
2702   within a qualifying county.
2703          [(b)] (d) "Subjurisdiction" means an area comprised of all precincts and subprecincts in
2704   the jurisdiction of a county, city, or town that are subject to a subjurisdictional law.
2705          [(c)] (e) (i) "Subjurisdictional law" means a local law or local obligation law passed by
2706   a local legislative body that imposes a tax or other payment obligation on property in an area
2707   that does not include all precincts and subprecincts under the jurisdiction of the county, city,
2708   town, or metro township.
2709          (ii) "Subjurisdictional law" does not include a land use law.
2710          (f) "Transit area land use law" means a land use law that relates to the use of land
2711   within a qualifying transit area.
2712          [(d)] (g) "Voter participation area" means an area described in Subsection
2713   20A-7-401.3(1)(a) or (2)(b).
2714          (2) Except as provided in [Subsection (3) or (4)] Subsections (3) through (5), an
2715   eligible voter seeking to have a local law passed by the local legislative body submitted to a
2716   vote of the people shall obtain legal signatures equal to:
2717          (a) for a county of the first class:




                                                       - 97 -
         H.B. 462                                                                        Enrolled Copy
2718            (i) 7.75% of the number of active voters in the county; and
2719            (ii) beginning on January 1, 2020, 7.75% of the number of active voters in at least 75%
2720   of the county's voter participation areas;
2721            (b) for a metro township with a population of 100,000 or more, or a city of the first
2722   class:
2723            (i) 7.5% of the number of active voters in the metro township or city; and
2724            (ii) beginning on January 1, 2020, 7.5% of the number of active voters in at least 75%
2725   of the metro township's or city's voter participation areas;
2726            (c) for a county of the second class:
2727            (i) 8% of the number of active voters in the county; and
2728            (ii) beginning on January 1, 2020, 8% of the number of active voters in at least 75% of
2729   the county's voter participation areas;
2730            (d) for a metro township with a population of 65,000 or more but less than 100,000, or
2731   a city of the second class:
2732            (i) 8.25% of the number of active voters in the metro township or city; and
2733            (ii) beginning on January 1, 2020, 8.25% of the number of active voters in at least 75%
2734   of the metro township's or city's voter participation areas;
2735            (e) for a county of the third class:
2736            (i) 9.5% of the number of active voters in the county; and
2737            (ii) beginning on January 1, 2020, 9.5% of the number of active voters in at least 75%
2738   of the county's voter participation areas;
2739            (f) for a metro township with a population of 30,000 or more but less than 65,000, or a
2740   city of the third class:
2741            (i) 10% of the number of active voters in the metro township or city; and
2742            (ii) beginning on January 1, 2020, 10% of the number of active voters in at least 75%
2743   of the metro township's or city's voter participation areas;
2744            (g) for a county of the fourth class:
2745            (i) 11.5% of the number of active voters in the county; and




                                                        - 98 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                           H.B. 462
2746            (ii) beginning on January 1, 2020, 11.5% of the number of active voters in at least 75%
2747   of the county's voter participation areas;
2748            (h) for a metro township with a population of 10,000 or more but less than 30,000, or a
2749   city of the fourth class:
2750            (i) 11.5% of the number of active voters in the metro township or city; and
2751            (ii) beginning on January 1, 2020, 11.5% of the number of active voters in at least 75%
2752   of the metro township's or city's voter participation areas;
2753            (i) for a metro township with a population of 1,000 or more but less than 10,000, a city
2754   of the fifth class, or a county of the fifth class, 25% of the number of active voters in the metro
2755   township, city, or county; or
2756            (j) for a metro township with a population of less than 1,000, a town, or a county of the
2757   sixth class, 35% of the number of active voters in the metro township, town, or county.
2758            (3) Except as provided in Subsection (4) or (5), an eligible voter seeking to have a land
2759   use law or local obligation law passed by the local legislative body submitted to a vote of the
2760   people shall obtain legal signatures equal to:
2761            (a) for a county of the first, second, third, or fourth class:
2762            (i) 16% of the number of active voters in the county; and
2763            (ii) beginning on January 1, 2020, 16% of the number of active voters in at least 75%
2764   of the county's voter participation areas;
2765            (b) for a county of the fifth or sixth class:
2766            (i) 16% of the number of active voters in the county; and
2767            (ii) beginning on January 1, 2020, 16% of the number of active voters in at least 75%
2768   of the county's voter participation areas;
2769            (c) for a metro township with a population of 100,000 or more, or a city of the first
2770   class:
2771            (i) 15% of the number of active voters in the metro township or city; and
2772            (ii) beginning on January 1, 2020, 15% of the number of active voters in at least 75%
2773   of the metro township's or city's voter participation areas;




                                                         - 99 -
         H.B. 462                                                                        Enrolled Copy
2774           (d) for a metro township with a population of 65,000 or more but less than 100,000, or
2775   a city of the second class:
2776           (i) 16% of the number of active voters in the metro township or city; and
2777           (ii) beginning on January 1, 2020, 16% of the number of active voters in at least 75%
2778   of the metro township's or city's voter participation areas;
2779           (e) for a metro township with a population of 30,000 or more but less than 65,000, or a
2780   city of the third class:
2781           (i) 27.5% of the number of active voters in the metro township or city; and
2782           (ii) beginning on January 1, 2020, 27.5% of the number of active voters in at least 75%
2783   of the metro township's or city's voter participation areas;
2784           (f) for a metro township with a population of 10,000 or more but less than 30,000, or a
2785   city of the fourth class:
2786           (i) 29% of the number of active voters in the metro township or city; and
2787           (ii) beginning on January 1, 2020, 29% of the number of active voters in at least 75%
2788   of the metro township's or city's voter participation areas;
2789           (g) for a metro township with a population of 1,000 or more but less than 10,000, or a
2790   city of the fifth class, 35% of the number of active voters in the metro township or city; or
2791           (h) for a metro township with a population of less than 1,000 or a town, 40% of the
2792   number of active voters in the metro township or town.
2793           (4) A person seeking to have a subjurisdictional law passed by the local legislative
2794   body submitted to a vote of the people shall obtain legal signatures of the residents in the
2795   subjurisdiction equal to:
2796           (a) 10% of the number of active voters in the subjurisdiction if the number of active
2797   voters exceeds 25,000;
2798           (b) 12-1/2% of the number of active voters in the subjurisdiction if the number of
2799   active voters does not exceed 25,000 but is more than 10,000;
2800           (c) 15% of the number of active voters in the subjurisdiction if the number of active
2801   voters does not exceed 10,000 but is more than 2,500;




                                                      - 100 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                          H.B. 462
2802            (d) 20% of the number of active voters in the subjurisdiction if the number of active
2803   voters does not exceed 2,500 but is more than 500;
2804            (e) 25% of the number of active voters in the subjurisdiction if the number of active
2805   voters does not exceed 500 but is more than 250; and
2806            (f) 30% of the number of active voters in the subjurisdiction if the number of active
2807   voters does not exceed 250.
2808            (5) An eligible voter seeking to have a transit area land use law passed by the local
2809   legislative body submitted to a vote of the people shall obtain legal signatures equal to:
2810            (a) for a county:
2811            (i) 20% of the number of active voters in the county; and
2812            (ii) 21% of the number of active voters in at least 75% of the county's voter
2813   participation areas;
2814            (b) for a metro township with a population of 100,000 or more, or a city of the first
2815   class:
2816            (i) 20% of the number of active voters in the metro township or city; and
2817            (ii) 20% of the number of active voters in at least 75% of the metro township's or city's
2818   voter participation areas;
2819            (c) for a metro township with a population of 65,000 or more but less than 100,000, or
2820   a city of the second class:
2821            (i) 20% of the number of active voters in the metro township or city; and
2822            (ii) 21% of the number of active voters in at least 75% of the metro township's or city's
2823   voter participation areas;
2824            (d) for a metro township with a population of 30,000 or more but less than 65,000, or a
2825   city of the third class:
2826            (i) 34% of the number of active voters in the metro township or city; and
2827            (ii) 34% of the number of active voters in at least 75% of the metro township's or city's
2828   voter participation areas;
2829            (e) for a metro township with a population of 10,000 or more but less than 30,000, or a




                                                      - 101 -
         H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
2830   city of the fourth class:
2831           (i) 36% of the number of active voters in the metro township or city; and
2832           (ii) 36% of the number of active voters in at least 75% of the metro township's or city's
2833   voter participation areas; or
2834           (f) for a metro township with a population less than 10,000, a city of the fifth class, or a
2835   town, 40% of the number of active voters in the metro township, city, or town.
2836           [(5)] (6) Sponsors of any referendum petition challenging, under Subsection (2), (3),
2837   [or] (4), or (5), any local law passed by a local legislative body shall file the application before
2838   5 p.m. within seven days after the day on which the local law was passed.
2839           [(6)] (7) Nothing in this section authorizes a local legislative body to impose a tax or
2840   other payment obligation on a subjurisdiction in order to benefit an area outside of the
2841   subjurisdiction.
2842           Section 19. Section 20A-7-602.8 is amended to read:
2843           20A-7-602.8. Referability to voters of local land use law -- Limitations on
2844   referability to voters of transit area land use law.
2845           (1) Within 20 days after the day on which an eligible voter files an application to
2846   circulate a referendum petition under Section 20A-7-602 for a land use law, counsel for the
2847   county, city, town, or metro township to which the referendum pertains shall:
2848           (a) review the application to determine whether the proposed referendum is legally
2849   referable to voters; and
2850           (b) notify the first three sponsors, in writing, whether the proposed referendum is:
2851           (i) legally referable to voters; or
2852           (ii) rejected as not legally referable to voters.
2853           (2) (a) [For a land use law, a] Subject to Subsection (2)(b), for a land use law, a
2854   proposed referendum is legally referable to voters unless:
2855           [(a)] (i) the proposed referendum challenges an action that is administrative, rather than
2856   legislative, in nature;
2857           [(b)] (ii) the proposed referendum challenges a land use decision, rather than a land use




                                                       - 102 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                             H.B. 462
2858   regulation, as those terms are defined in Section 10-9a-103 or 17-27a-103;
2859             [(c)] (iii) the proposed referendum challenges more than one law passed by the local
2860   legislative body; or
2861             [(d)] (iv) the application for the proposed referendum was not timely filed or does not
2862   comply with the requirements of this part.
2863             (b) In addition to the limitations of Subsection (2)(a), a proposed referendum is not
2864   legally referable to voters for a transit area land use law, as defined in Section 20A-7-601, if
2865   the transit area land use law was passed by a two-thirds vote of the local legislative body.
2866             (3) After the end of the 20-day period described in Subsection (1), a county, city, town,
2867   or metro township may not, for a land use law:
2868             (a) reject a proposed referendum as not legally referable to voters; or
2869             (b) except as provided in Subsection (4), challenge, in a legal action or otherwise, a
2870   proposed referendum on the grounds that the proposed referendum is not legally referable to
2871   voters.
2872             (4) (a) If a county, city, town, or metro township rejects a proposed referendum
2873   concerning a land use law, a sponsor of the proposed referendum may, within seven days after
2874   the day on which a sponsor is notified under Subsection (1)(b), challenge or appeal the decision
2875   to:
2876             (i) the Supreme Court, by means of an extraordinary writ, if possible; or
2877             (ii) a district court, if the sponsor is prohibited from pursuing an extraordinary writ
2878   under Subsection (4)(a)(i).
2879             (b) Failure of a sponsor to timely challenge or appeal a rejection under Subsection
2880   (4)(a) terminates the referendum.
2881             (5) If, on challenge or appeal, the court determines that the proposed referendum is
2882   legally referable to voters, the local clerk shall comply with Subsection 20A-7-604(2) within
2883   five days after the day on which the determination, and any challenge or appeal of the
2884   determination, is final.
2885             Section 20. Section 35A-8-101 is amended to read:




                                                        - 103 -
         H.B. 462                                                                       Enrolled Copy
2886           35A-8-101. Definitions.
2887           As used in this chapter:
2888           (1) "Accessible housing" means housing which has been constructed or modified to be
2889   accessible, as described in the State Construction Code or an approved code under Title 15A,
2890   State Construction and Fire Codes Act.
2891           (2) "Director" means the director of the division.
2892           (3) "Division" means the Housing and Community Development Division.
2893           (4) "Moderate income housing" means housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by
2894   households with a gross household income equal to or less than 80% of the median gross
2895   income for households of the same size in the county in which the housing is located.
2896           (5) "Moderate income housing unit" means a housing unit that qualifies as moderate
2897   income housing.
2898           Section 21. Section 35A-8-503 is amended to read:
2899           35A-8-503. Housing loan fund board -- Duties -- Expenses.
2900           (1) There is created the Olene Walker Housing Loan Fund Board.
2901           (2) The board is composed of [11] 13 voting members.
2902           (a) The governor shall appoint the following members to four-year terms:
2903           (i) two members from local governments[;], of which:
2904           (A) one member shall be a locally elected official who resides in a county of the first or
2905   second class; and
2906           (B) one member shall be a locally elected official who resides in a county of the third,
2907   fourth, fifth, or sixth class;
2908           (ii) two members from the mortgage lending community[;], of which:
2909           (A) one member shall have expertise in single-family mortgage lending; and
2910           (B) one member shall have expertise in multi-family mortgage lending;
2911           (iii) one member from real estate sales interests;
2912           (iv) [one member] two members from home builders interests[;], of which:
2913           (A) one member shall have expertise in single-family residential construction; and




                                                     - 104 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                              H.B. 462
2914            (B) one member shall have expertise in multi-family residential construction;
2915            (v) one member from rental housing interests;
2916            (vi) [one member] two members from housing advocacy interests[;], of which:
2917            (A) one member who resides within any area in a county of the first or second class;
2918   and
2919            (B) one member who resides within any area in a county of the third, fourth, fifth, or
2920   sixth class;
2921            (vii) one member of the manufactured housing interest;
2922            (viii) one member with expertise in transit-oriented developments; and
2923            (ix) one member who represents rural interests.
2924            (b) The director or the director's designee serves as the secretary of the board.
2925            (c) The members of the board shall annually elect a chair from among the voting
2926   membership of the board.
2927            (3) (a) Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (2), the governor shall, at the
2928   time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of
2929   board members are staggered so that approximately half of the board is appointed every two
2930   years.
2931            (b) When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement is
2932   appointed for the unexpired term.
2933            (4) (a) The board shall:
2934            (i) meet regularly, at least quarterly to conduct business of the board, on dates fixed by
2935   the board;
2936            (ii) meet twice per year, with at least one of the meetings in a rural area of the state, to
2937   provide information to and receive input from the public regarding the state's housing policies
2938   and needs;
2939            (iii) keep minutes of its meetings; and
2940            (iv) comply with the procedures and requirements of Title 52, Chapter 4, Open and
2941   Public Meetings Act.




                                                        - 105 -
        H.B. 462                                                                        Enrolled Copy
2942          (b) [Six] Seven members of the board constitute a quorum, and the governor, the chair,
2943   or a majority of the board may call a meeting of the board.
2944          (5) The board shall:
2945          (a) review the housing needs in the state;
2946          (b) determine the relevant operational aspects of any grant, loan, or revenue collection
2947   program established under the authority of this chapter;
2948          (c) determine the means to implement the policies and goals of this chapter;
2949          (d) select specific projects to receive grant or loan money; and
2950          (e) determine how fund money shall be allocated and distributed.
2951          (6) A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but
2952   may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:
2953          (a) Section 63A-3-106;
2954          (b) Section 63A-3-107; and
2955          (c) rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and
2956   63A-3-107.
2957          Section 22. Section 35A-8-504 is amended to read:
2958          35A-8-504. Distribution of fund money.
2959          (1) As used in this section:
2960          (a) "Community" means the same as that term is defined in Section 17C-1-102.
2961          (b) "Income targeted housing" means the same as that term is defined in Section
2962   17C-1-102.
2963          [(1)] (2) The executive director shall:
2964          (a) make grants and loans from the fund for any of the activities authorized by Section
2965   35A-8-505, as directed by the board;
2966          (b) establish the criteria with the approval of the board by which loans and grants will
2967   be made; and
2968          (c) determine with the approval of the board the order in which projects will be funded.
2969          [(2)] (3) The executive director shall distribute, as directed by the board, any federal




                                                        - 106 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                            H.B. 462
2970   money contained in the fund according to the procedures, conditions, and restrictions placed
2971   upon the use of the money by the federal government.
2972            [(3) (a)] (4) The executive director shall distribute, as directed by the board, any funds
2973   received under Section 17C-1-412 to pay the costs of providing income targeted housing within
2974   the community that created the community reinvestment agency under Title 17C, Limited
2975   Purpose Local Government Entities - Community Reinvestment Agency Act.
2976            [(b) As used in Subsection (3)(a):]
2977            [(i) "Community" means the same as that term is defined in Section 17C-1-102.]
2978            [(ii) "Income targeted housing" means the same as that term is defined in Section
2979   17C-1-102.]
2980            [(4)] (5) Except for federal money, money received under Section 17C-1-412, and
2981   money appropriated for use in accordance with Section 35A-8-2105, the executive director
2982   shall distribute, as directed by the board, money in the fund according to the following
2983   requirements:
2984            [(a) the executive director shall distribute at least 30% of the money in the fund to rural
2985   areas of the state;]
2986            [(b)] (a) the executive director shall distribute at least 70% of the money in the fund to
2987   benefit persons whose annual income is at or below 50% of the median family income for the
2988   state;
2989            [(c)] (b) the executive director may [not use more than] use up to 3% of the revenues of
2990   the fund, including any appropriation to the fund, to offset department or board administrative
2991   expenses;
2992            [(d)] (c) the executive director shall distribute any remaining money in the fund to
2993   benefit persons whose annual income is at or below 80% of the median family income for the
2994   state; and
2995            [(e)] (d) if the executive director or the executive director's designee makes a loan in
2996   accordance with this section, the interest rate of the loan shall be based on the borrower's
2997   ability to pay.




                                                       - 107 -
         H.B. 462                                                                               Enrolled Copy
2998             [(5)] (6) The executive director may, with the approval of the board:
2999             (a) enact rules to establish procedures for the grant and loan process by following the
3000   procedures and requirements of Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act;
3001   and
3002             (b) service or contract, under Title 63G, Chapter 6a, Utah Procurement Code, for the
3003   servicing of loans made by the fund.
3004             Section 23. Section 35A-8-507.5 is amended to read:
3005             35A-8-507.5. Predevelopment grants.
3006             [(1) The executive director under the direction of the board may:]
3007             [(a) award one or more predevelopment grants to nonprofit or for-profit entities in
3008   preparation for the construction of low-income housing units;]
3009             [(b) award a predevelopment grant in an amount of no more than $50,000 per project;]
3010             [(c) may only award a predevelopment grant in relation to a project in:]
3011             [(i) a city of the fifth or sixth class, or a town, in a rural area of the state; or]
3012             [(ii) any municipality or unincorporated area in a county of the fourth, fifth, or sixth
3013   class.]
3014             (1) The executive director may, under the direction of the board, award one or more
3015   predevelopment grants to a nonprofit or for-profit entity:
3016             (a) in preparation for a project that:
3017             (i) involves the construction of moderate income housing units; and
3018             (ii) is located within:
3019             (A) a city of the fifth or sixth class, or a town, in a rural area of the state; or
3020             (B) any municipality or unincorporated area in a county of the fourth, fifth, or sixth
3021   class; and
3022             (b) in an amount of no more than $50,000 per project.
3023             (2) The executive director shall, under the direction of the board [shall], award each
3024   predevelopment grant in accordance with the provisions of this section and the provisions
3025   related to grant applications, grant awards, and reporting requirements in this part.




                                                           - 108 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                           H.B. 462
3026           (3) [A] The recipient of a predevelopment grant:
3027           (a) may [be used by a recipient for offsetting] use grant funds to offset the
3028   predevelopment funds needed to prepare for the construction of low-income housing units,
3029   including market studies, surveys, environmental and impact studies, technical assistance, and
3030   preliminary architecture, engineering, or legal work; and
3031           (b) may not [be used by a recipient] use grant funds to pay for staff salaries [of a grant
3032   recipient] or construction costs.
3033           (4) The executive director shall, under the direction of the board [shall], prioritize the
3034   awarding of a predevelopment grant for a project [in] that is located within:
3035           (a) a county of the fifth or sixth class [and where the municipality or unincorporated];
3036   and
3037           (b) an area that has underdeveloped infrastructure, as demonstrated by at least two of
3038   the following:
3039           [(a)] (i) limited or no availability of natural gas;
3040           [(b)] (ii) limited or no availability of a sewer system;
3041           [(c)] (iii) limited or no availability of broadband Internet;
3042           [(d)] (iv) unpaved residential streets; or
3043           [(e)] (v) limited local construction professionals, vendors, or services.
3044           Section 24. Section 35A-8-508 is amended to read:
3045           35A-8-508. Annual accounting.
3046           (1) The executive director shall monitor the activities of recipients of grants and loans
3047   issued under this part on a yearly basis to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions
3048   imposed on the recipient by the executive director with the approval of the board or by this
3049   part.
3050           (2) [An] Beginning July 1, 2021, an entity that receives [a grant or loan] any money
3051   from the fund under this part shall provide the executive director with an annual accounting of
3052   how the money the entity received from the fund has been spent.
3053           (3) The executive director shall make an annual report to the board accounting for the




                                                       - 109 -
        H.B. 462                                                                       Enrolled Copy
3054   expenditures authorized by the board.
3055          (4) The board shall submit a report to the department for inclusion in the annual
3056   written report described in Section 35A-1-109:
3057          (a) accounting for expenditures authorized by the board; and
3058          (b) evaluating the effectiveness of the program.
3059          Section 25. Section 35A-8-509 is amended to read:
3060          35A-8-509. Economic Revitalization and Investment Fund.
3061          (1) There is created an enterprise fund known as the "Economic Revitalization and
3062   Investment Fund."
3063          (2) The Economic Revitalization and Investment Fund consists of money from the
3064   following:
3065          (a) money appropriated to the account by the Legislature;
3066          (b) private contributions;
3067          (c) donations or grants from public or private entities; and
3068          (d) money returned to the department under [Section 35A-8-512] Subsection
3069   35A-8-512(3)(a).
3070          (3) The Economic Revitalization and Investment Fund shall earn interest, which shall
3071   be deposited into the Economic Revitalization and Investment Fund.
3072          (4) The executive director may distribute money from the Economic Revitalization and
3073   Investment Fund to one or more projects that:
3074          (a) include affordable housing units for households[: (i)] whose income is no more
3075   than 30% of the area median income for households of the same size in the county or
3076   municipality where the project is located; and
3077          [(ii) at rental rates no greater than the rates described in Subsection 35A-8-511(2)(b);
3078   and]
3079          (b) have been approved by the board in accordance with Section 35A-8-510.
3080          (5) (a) A housing sponsor may apply to the department to receive a distribution in
3081   accordance with Subsection (4).




                                                    - 110 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                          H.B. 462
3082          (b) The application shall include:
3083          (i) the location of the project;
3084          (ii) the number, size, and tenant income requirements of affordable housing units
3085   described in Subsection (4)(a) that will be included in the project; and
3086          (iii) a written commitment to enter into a deed restriction that reserves for a period of
3087   30 years the affordable housing units described in Subsection (5)(b)(ii) or their equivalent for
3088   occupancy by households that meet the income requirements described in Subsection (5)(b)(ii).
3089          (c) The commitment in Subsection (5)(b)(iii) shall be considered met if a housing unit
3090   is:
3091          (i) (A) occupied or reserved for occupancy by a household whose income is no more
3092   than 30% of the area median income for households of the same size in the county or
3093   municipality where the project is located; or
3094          (B) occupied by a household whose income is no more than 60% of the area median
3095   income for households of the same size in the county or municipality where the project is
3096   located if that household met the income requirement described in Subsection (4)(a) when the
3097   household originally entered into the lease agreement for the housing unit; and
3098          (ii) rented at a rate no greater than the rate described in Subsection 35A-8-511(2)(b).
3099          (d) In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the
3100   department may make additional rules providing procedures for a person to apply to the
3101   department to receive a distribution described in Subsection (4).
3102          (6) The executive director may expend up to 3% of the revenues of the Economic
3103   Revitalization and Investment Fund, including any appropriation to the Economic
3104   Revitalization and Investment Fund, to offset department or board administrative expenses.
3105          Section 26. Section 35A-8-509.5 is enacted to read:
3106          35A-8-509.5. Rural Housing Fund.
3107          (1) There is created an enterprise fund known as the "Rural Housing Fund."
3108          (2) The Rural Housing Fund consists of money from the following:
3109          (a) money appropriated to the account by the Legislature;




                                                       - 111 -
         H.B. 462                                                                       Enrolled Copy
3110          (b) private contributions;
3111          (c) donations or grants from public or private entities; and
3112          (d) money returned to the department under Subsection 35A-8-512(3)(b).
3113          (3) The Rural Housing Fund shall earn interest, which shall be deposited into the Rural
3114   Housing Fund.
3115          (4) Subject to appropriation, the executive director may expend funds in the Rural
3116   Housing Fund to provide loans for projects that:
3117          (a) are located within:
3118          (i) a county of the third, fourth, fifth, or sixth class; or
3119          (ii) a municipality in a county of the second class with a population of 10,000 or less;
3120          (b) include moderate income housing units; and
3121          (c) have been approved by the board in accordance with Section 35A-8-510.
3122          (5) (a) A housing sponsor may apply to the department to receive a loan under this
3123   section.
3124          (b) An application under Subsection (5)(a) shall specify:
3125          (i) the location of the project;
3126          (ii) the number, size, and income requirements of moderate income housing units that
3127   will be included in the project; and
3128          (iii) a written commitment to enter into a deed restriction that reserves for a period of
3129   50 years the moderate income housing units described in Subsection (5)(b)(ii).
3130          (c) A commitment under Subsection (5)(b)(iii) shall be considered satisfied if a
3131   housing unit is occupied by a household that met the income requirement for moderate income
3132   housing when the household originally entered into the lease agreement for the housing unit.
3133          (d) In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the
3134   department may make rules establishing procedures and requirements for housing sponsors to
3135   apply for and receive loans under this section.
3136          (6) The executive director may expend up to 3% of the revenues of the Rural Housing
3137   Fund, including any appropriation to the Rural Housing Fund, to offset department or board




                                                       - 112 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                              H.B. 462
3138   administrative expenses.
3139          Section 27. Section 35A-8-510 is amended to read:
3140          35A-8-510. Housing loan fund board approval.
3141          (1) The board shall review the project applications described in [Subsection]
3142   Subsections 35A-8-509(5) and 35A-8-509.5(5).
3143          (2) (a) The board may approve a project that meets the requirements of Subsections
3144   35A-8-509(4) and (5) to receive funds from the Economic Revitalization and Investment Fund.
3145          (b) The board may approve a project that meets the requirements of Subsections
3146   35A-8-509.5(4) and (5) to receive funds from the Rural Housing Fund.
3147          (3) The board shall give preference to projects:
3148          (a) that include significant additional or matching funds from an individual, private
3149   organization, or local government entity;
3150          (b) that include significant contributions by the applicant to total project costs,
3151   including contributions secured by the applicant from other sources such as professional, craft,
3152   and trade services and lender interest rate subsidies;
3153          (c) with significant local government contributions in the form of infrastructure,
3154   improvements, or other assistance;
3155          (d) where the applicant has demonstrated the ability, stability, and resources to
3156   complete the project;
3157          (e) that will serve the greatest need;
3158          (f) that promote economic development benefits;
3159          (g) that allow integration into a local government housing plan;
3160          (h) that would mitigate or correct existing health, safety, or welfare concerns; or
3161          (i) that remedy a gap in the supply of and demand for affordable housing.
3162          Section 28. Section 35A-8-511 is amended to read:
3163          35A-8-511. Activities authorized to receive account money.
3164          [(1)] The executive director may distribute funds from the Economic Revitalization
3165   and Investment Fund and the Rural Housing Fund for any of the following activities




                                                       - 113 -
         H.B. 462                                                                        Enrolled Copy
3166   undertaken as part of an approved project:
3167          [(a)] (1) the acquisition, rehabilitation, or new construction of a building that includes
3168   [affordable] moderate income housing units;
3169          [(b)] (2) the purchase of land for the construction of a building that will include
3170   [affordable] moderate income housing units; or
3171          [(c)] (3) pre-development work, including planning, studies, design, and site work for a
3172   building that will include [affordable] moderate income housing units.
3173          [(2) The maximum amount of money that may be distributed from the Economic
3174   Revitalization and Investment Fund for each affordable housing unit that has been committed
3175   in accordance with Subsection 35A-8-509(5)(b)(iii) is the present value, based on the current
3176   market interest rate as determined by the board for a multi-family mortgage loan in the county
3177   or metropolitan area where the project is located, of 360 monthly payments equal to the
3178   difference between:]
3179          [(a) the most recent United States Department of Housing and Urban Development fair
3180   market rent for a unit of the same size in the county or metropolitan area where the project is
3181   located; and]
3182          [(b) an affordable rent equal to 30% of the income requirement described in Subsection
3183   35A-8-509(5)(b)(ii) for a household of:]
3184          [(i) one person if the unit is an efficiency unit;]
3185          [(ii) two people if the unit is a one-bedroom unit;]
3186          [(iii) four people if the unit is a two-bedroom unit;]
3187          [(iv) five people if the unit is a three-bedroom unit;]
3188          [(v) six people if the unit is a four-bedroom unit; or]
3189          [(vi) eight people if the unit is a five-bedroom or larger unit.]
3190          Section 29. Section 35A-8-512 is amended to read:
3191          35A-8-512. Repayment of funds.
3192          (1) Upon the earlier of 30 years from the date an approved project is placed in service
3193   or the sale or transfer of the affordable housing units acquired, constructed, or rehabilitated as




                                                      - 114 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                         H.B. 462
3194   part of an approved project funded under [Section 35A-8-511] Subsection 35A-8-511(1), the
3195   housing sponsor shall remit to the department:
3196          (a) the total amount of money distributed by the department to the housing sponsor for
3197   the project; and
3198          (b) an additional amount of money determined by contract with the department prior to
3199   the initial disbursement of money [from the Economic Revitalization and Investment Fund].
3200          (2) Any claim arising under Subsection (1) is a lien against the real property funded
3201   under this chapter.
3202          (3) (a) Any money returned to the department under Subsection (1) from a housing
3203   sponsor that received funds from the Economic Revitalization and Investment Fund shall be
3204   deposited in the Economic Revitalization and Investment Fund.
3205          (b) Any money returned to the department under Subsection (1) from a housing
3206   sponsor that received funds from the Rural Housing Fund shall be deposited in the Rural
3207   Housing Fund.
3208          Section 30. Section 35A-8-513 is amended to read:
3209          35A-8-513. Annual accounting.
3210          (1) The executive director shall monitor the activities of recipients of funds from the
3211   Economic Revitalization and Investment Fund and the Rural Housing Fund on a yearly basis to
3212   ensure compliance with the terms and conditions imposed on the recipient by the executive
3213   director with the approval of the board.
3214          (2) (a) A housing sponsor that receives funds from the Economic Revitalization and
3215   Investment Fund shall provide the executive director with an annual accounting of how the
3216   money the entity received from the Economic Revitalization and Investment Fund has been
3217   spent and evidence that the commitment described in Subsection 35A-8-509(5) has been met.
3218          (b) A housing sponsor that receives funds from the Rural Housing Fund shall provide
3219   the executive director with an annual accounting of how the money the entity received from the
3220   Rural Housing Fund has been spent and evidence that the commitment described in Subsection
3221   35A-8-509.5(5) has been met.




                                                    - 115 -
        H.B. 462                                                                        Enrolled Copy
3222          (3) The executive director shall make an annual report to the board accounting for the
3223   expenditures authorized by the board under the Economic Revitalization and Investment Fund
3224   and the Rural Housing Fund.
3225          (4) The board shall submit a report to the department for inclusion in the annual
3226   written report described in Section 35A-1-109 that includes:
3227          (a) an accounting for expenditures authorized by the board; and
3228          (b) an evaluation of the effectiveness of [the] each program.
3229          Section 31. Section 35A-8-803 is amended to read:
3230          35A-8-803. Division -- Functions.
3231          (1) In addition to any other functions the governor or Legislature may assign:
3232          (a) the division shall:
3233          (i) provide a clearinghouse of information for federal, state, and local housing
3234   assistance programs;
3235          (ii) establish, in cooperation with political subdivisions, model plans and management
3236   methods to encourage or provide for the development of affordable housing that may be
3237   adopted by political subdivisions by reference;
3238          (iii) undertake, in cooperation with political subdivisions, a realistic assessment of
3239   problems relating to housing needs, such as:
3240          (A) inadequate supply of dwellings;
3241          (B) substandard dwellings; and
3242          (C) inability of medium and low income families to obtain adequate housing;
3243          (iv) provide the information obtained under Subsection (1)(a)(iii) to:
3244          (A) political subdivisions;
3245          (B) real estate developers;
3246          (C) builders;
3247          (D) lending institutions;
3248          (E) affordable housing advocates; and
3249          (F) others having use for the information;




                                                      - 116 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                          H.B. 462
3250          (v) advise political subdivisions of serious housing problems existing within their
3251   jurisdiction that require concerted public action for solution;
3252          (vi) assist political subdivisions in defining housing objectives and in preparing for
3253   adoption a plan of action covering a five-year period designed to accomplish housing
3254   objectives within their jurisdiction; [and]
3255          (vii) for municipalities or counties required to submit an annual moderate income
3256   housing report to the department as described in Section 10-9a-408 or 17-27a-408:
3257          (A) assist in the creation of the reports; and
3258          [(B) evaluate the reports for the purposes of Subsections 72-2-124(5) and (6); and]
3259          (B) review the reports to meet the requirements of Sections 10-9a-408 and 17-27a-408;
3260          (viii) establish and maintain a database of moderate income housing units located
3261   within the state; and
3262          (ix) on or before December 1, 2022, develop and submit to the Commission on
3263   Housing Affordability a methodology for determining whether a municipality or county is
3264   taking sufficient measures to protect and promote moderate income housing in accordance with
3265   the provisions of Sections 10-9a-403 and 17-27a-403; and
3266          (b) within legislative appropriations, the division may accept for and on behalf of, and
3267   bind the state to, any federal housing or homeless program in which the state is invited,
3268   permitted, or authorized to participate in the distribution, disbursement, or administration of
3269   any funds or service advanced, offered, or contributed in whole or in part by the federal
3270   government.
3271          (2) The administration of any federal housing program in which the state is invited,
3272   permitted, or authorized to participate in distribution, disbursement, or administration of funds
3273   or services, except those administered by the Utah Housing Corporation, is governed by
3274   Sections 35A-8-501 through 35A-8-508.
3275          (3) In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the
3276   department shall make rules describing the [evaluation] review process for moderate income
3277   housing reports described in Subsection (1)(a)(vii).




                                                      - 117 -
         H.B. 462                                                                       Enrolled Copy
3278          Section 32. Section 35A-8-2105 is amended to read:
3279          35A-8-2105. Allocation of volume cap.
3280          (1) (a) Subject to Subsection (1)(b), the volume cap for each year shall be distributed
3281   by the board of review to the allotment accounts as described in Section 35A-8-2106.
3282          (b) The board of review may distribute up to 50% of each increase in the volume cap
3283   for use in development that occurs in quality growth areas, depending upon the board's analysis
3284   of the relative need for additional volume cap between development in quality growth areas
3285   and the allotment accounts under Section 35A-8-2106.
3286          (2) To obtain an allocation of the volume cap, issuing authorities shall submit to the
3287   board of review an application containing information required by the procedures and
3288   processes of the board of review.
3289          (3) (a) The board of review shall establish criteria for making allocations of volume
3290   cap that are consistent with the purposes of the code and this part.
3291          (b) In making an allocation of volume cap the board of review shall consider the
3292   following:
3293          (i) the principal amount of the bonds proposed to be issued;
3294          (ii) the nature and the location of the project or the type of program;
3295          (iii) the likelihood that the bonds will be sold and the timeframe of bond issuance;
3296          (iv) whether the project or program could obtain adequate financing without an
3297   allocation of volume cap;
3298          (v) the degree to which an allocation of volume cap is required for the project or
3299   program to proceed or continue;
3300          (vi) the social, health, economic, and educational effects of the project or program on
3301   the local community and state as a whole;
3302          (vii) the anticipated economic development created or retained within the local
3303   community and the state as a whole;
3304          (viii) the anticipated number of jobs, both temporary and permanent, created or
3305   retained within the local community and the state as a whole;




                                                     - 118 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                             H.B. 462
3306           (ix) if the project is a residential rental project, the degree to which the residential
3307   rental project:
3308           (A) targets lower income populations; and
3309           (B) is accessible housing; and
3310           (x) whether the project meets the principles of quality growth recommended by the
3311   Quality Growth Commission created in Section 11-38-201.
3312           (4) The board of review shall provide evidence of an allocation of volume cap by
3313   issuing a certificate in accordance with Section 35A-8-2107.
3314           (5) (a) [From] Subject to Subsection (5)(c), from January 1 to June 30 of each year, the
3315   board of review shall set aside at least 50% of the Small Issue Bond Account that may only be
3316   allocated to manufacturing projects.
3317           (b) [From] Subject to Subsection (5)(c), from July 1 to August 15 of each year, the
3318   board of review shall set aside at least 50% of the Pool Account that may only be allocated to
3319   manufacturing projects.
3320           (c) The board of review is not required to set aside any unused volume cap under
3321   Subsection 35A-8-2106(2)(c) to satisfy the requirements of Subsection (5)(a) or (b).
3322           Section 33. Section 35A-8-2106 is amended to read:
3323           35A-8-2106. Allotment accounts.
3324           (1) There are created the following allotment accounts:
3325           (a) the Single Family Housing Account, for which eligible issuing authorities are those
3326   authorized under the code and state statute to issue qualified mortgage bonds under Section 143
3327   of the code;
3328           (b) the Student Loan Account, for which eligible issuing authorities are those
3329   authorized under the code and state statute to issue qualified student loan bonds under Section
3330   144(b) of the code;
3331           (c) the Small Issue Bond Account, for which eligible issuing authorities are those
3332   authorized under the code and state statute to issue:
3333           (i) qualified small issue bonds under Section 144(a) of the code;




                                                       - 119 -
         H.B. 462                                                                       Enrolled Copy
3334          (ii) qualified exempt facility bonds for qualified residential rental projects under
3335   Section 142(d) of the code; or
3336          (iii) qualified redevelopment bonds under Section 144(c) of the code;
3337          (d) the Exempt Facilities Account, for which eligible issuing authorities are those
3338   authorized under the code and state statute to issue any bonds requiring an allocation of volume
3339   cap other than for purposes described in [Subsections] Subsection (1)(a), (b), or (c);
3340          (e) the Pool Account, for which eligible issuing authorities are those authorized under
3341   the code and state statute to issue any bonds requiring an allocation of volume cap; and
3342          (f) the Carryforward Account, for which eligible issuing authorities are those with
3343   projects or programs qualifying under Section 146(f) of the code.
3344          (2) (a) The volume cap shall be distributed to the allotment accounts on January 1 of
3345   each year on the following basis:
3346          (i) 42% to the Single Family Housing Account;
3347          (ii) 33% to the Student Loan Account;
3348          (iii) 1% to the Exempt Facilities Account; and
3349          (iv) 24% to the Small Issue Bond Account.
3350          (b) From July 1 to September 30 of each year, the board of review may transfer any
3351   unallocated volume cap from the Exempt Facilities Account or the Small Issue Bond Account
3352   to the Pool Account.
3353          (c) Upon written notification by the issuing authorities eligible for volume cap
3354   allocation from the Single Family Housing Account or the Student Loan Account that all or a
3355   portion of volume cap distributed into that allotment account will not be used, the board of
3356   review may transfer the unused volume cap [between the Single Family Housing Account and
3357   the Student Loan Account] to any other allotment account.
3358          (d) From October 1 to the third Friday of December of each year, the board of review
3359   shall transfer all unallocated volume cap into the Pool Account.
3360          (e) On the third Saturday of December of each year, the board of review shall transfer
3361   uncollected volume cap, or allocated volume cap for which bonds have not been issued prior to




                                                     - 120 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                          H.B. 462
3362   the third Saturday of December, into the Carryforward Account.
3363           (f) If the authority to issue bonds designated in any allotment account is rescinded by
3364   amendment to the code, the board of review may transfer any unallocated volume cap from that
3365   allotment account to any other allotment account.
3366           Section 34. Section 35A-8-2203 is amended to read:
3367           35A-8-2203. Duties of the commission.
3368           (1) The commission's duties include:
3369           (a) increasing public and government awareness and understanding of the housing
3370   affordability needs of the state and how those needs may be most effectively and efficiently
3371   met, through empirical study and investigation;
3372           (b) identifying and recommending implementation of specific strategies, policies,
3373   procedures, and programs to address the housing affordability needs of the state;
3374           (c) facilitating the communication and coordination of public and private entities that
3375   are involved in developing, financing, providing, advocating for, and administering affordable
3376   housing in the state;
3377           (d) studying, evaluating, and reporting on the status and effectiveness of policies,
3378   procedures, and programs that address housing affordability in the state;
3379           (e) studying and evaluating the policies, procedures, and programs implemented by
3380   other states that address housing affordability;
3381           (f) providing a forum for public comment on issues related to housing affordability;
3382   [and]
3383           (g) providing recommendations to the governor and Legislature on strategies, policies,
3384   procedures, and programs to address the housing affordability needs of the state[.]; and
3385           (h) on or before December 31, 2022, approving the methodology developed by the
3386   division under Subsection 35A-8-803(1)(a)(ix).
3387           (2) To accomplish its duties, the commission may:
3388           (a) request and receive from a state or local government agency or institution summary
3389   information relating to housing affordability, including:




                                                      - 121 -
         H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
3390          (i) reports;
3391          (ii) audits;
3392          (iii) projections; and
3393          (iv) statistics; and
3394          (b) appoint one or more advisory groups to advise and assist the commission.
3395          (3) (a) A member of an advisory group described in Subsection (2)(b):
3396          (i) shall be appointed by the commission;
3397          (ii) may be:
3398          (A) a member of the commission; or
3399          (B) an individual from the private or public sector; and
3400          (iii) notwithstanding Section 35A-8-2202, may not receive reimbursement or pay for
3401   any work done in relation to the advisory group.
3402          (b) An advisory group described in Subsection (2)(b) shall report to the commission on
3403   the progress of the advisory group.
3404          Section 35. Section 63J-4-802 is amended to read:
3405          63J-4-802. Creation of COVID-19 Local Assistance Matching Grant Program --
3406   Eligibility -- Duties of the office.
3407          (1) There is established a grant program known as COVID-19 Local Assistance
3408   Matching Grant Program that is administered by the office.
3409          (2) The office shall award financial grants to local governments that meet the
3410   qualifications described in Subsection (3) to provide support for:
3411          (a) projects or services that address the economic impacts of the COVID-19 emergency
3412   on housing insecurity, lack of affordable housing, or homelessness;
3413          (b) costs incurred in addressing public health challenges resulting from the COVID-19
3414   emergency;
3415          (c) necessary investments in water and sewer infrastructure; or
3416          (d) any other purpose authorized under the American Rescue Plan Act.
3417          (3) To be eligible for a grant under this part, a local government shall:




                                                     - 122 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                            H.B. 462
3418          (a) provide matching funds in an amount determined by the office; and
3419          (b) certify that the local government will spend grant funds:
3420          (i) on a purpose described in Subsection (2);
3421          (ii) within the time period determined by the office; and
3422          (iii) in accordance with the American Rescue Plan Act.
3423          (4) As soon as is practicable, but on or before September 15, 2021, the office shall,
3424   with recommendations from the review committee, establish:
3425          (a) procedures for applying for and awarding grants under this part, using an online
3426   grants management system that:
3427          (i) manages each grant throughout the duration of the grant;
3428          (ii) allows for:
3429          (A) online submission of grant applications; and
3430          (B) auditing and reporting for a local government that receives grant funds; and
3431          (iii) generates reports containing information about each grant;
3432          (b) criteria for awarding grants; and
3433          (c) reporting requirements for grant recipients.
3434          (5) Subject to appropriation, the office shall award grant funds on a competitive basis
3435   until December 31, 2024.
3436          (6) If the office receives a notice of prioritization for a municipality as described in
3437   Subsection 10-9a-408(5), or a notice of prioritization for a county as described in Subsection
3438   17-27a-408(5), the office may prioritize the awarding of a financial grant under this section to
3439   the municipality or county during the fiscal year specified in the notice.
3440          (7) If the office receives a notice of ineligibility for a municipality as described in
3441   Subsection 10-9a-408(7), or a notice of ineligibility for a county as described in Subsection
3442   17-27a-408(7), the office may not award a financial grant under this section to the municipality
3443   or county during the fiscal year specified in the notice.
3444          [(6)] (8) Before November 30 of each year, ending November 30, 2025, the office shall
3445   submit a report to the Executive Appropriations Committee that includes:




                                                      - 123 -
        H.B. 462                                                                        Enrolled Copy
3446           (a) a summary of the procedures, criteria, and requirements established under
3447   Subsection (4);
3448           (b) a summary of the recommendations of the review committee under Section
3449   63J-4-803;
3450           (c) the number of applications submitted under the grant program during the previous
3451   year;
3452           (d) the number of grants awarded under the grant program during the previous year;
3453           (e) the aggregate amount of grant funds awarded under the grant program during the
3454   previous year; and
3455           (f) any other information the office considers relevant to evaluating the success of the
3456   grant program.
3457           [(7)] (9) The office may use funds appropriated by the Legislature for the grant
3458   program to pay for administrative costs.
3459           Section 36. Section 63L-12-101 is enacted to read:
3460           CHAPTER 12. GRANTING OF REAL PROPERTY FOR MODERATE INCOME
3461                                                  HOUSING
3462           63L-12-101. Definitions.
3463           As used in this chapter:
3464           (1) "Governmental entity" means:
3465           (a) an agency, as that term is defined in Section 63G-10-102;
3466           (b) the School and Institutional Trust Lands Administration created in Section
3467   53C-1-201;
3468           (c) the School and Institutional Trust Lands Board of Trustees created in Section
3469   53C-1-202; or
3470           (d) a political subdivision, as that term is defined in Section 63L-11-102.
3471           (2) "Moderate income housing" means housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by
3472   households with a gross household income equal to or less than 80% of the median gross
3473   income for households of the same size in the county in which the housing is located.




                                                     - 124 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                          H.B. 462
3474          (3) "Municipality" means the same as that term is defined in Section 10-1-104.
3475          Section 37. Section 63L-12-102, which is renumbered from Section 10-8-501 is
3476   renumbered and amended to read:
3477          [10-8-501].     63L-12-102. Grant of real property for moderate income housing.
3478          [(1) As used in this part, "affordable housing unit" means a rental housing unit where a
3479   household whose income is no more than 50% of the area median income for households
3480   where the housing unit is located is able to occupy the housing unit paying no more than 31%
3481   of the household's income for gross housing costs including utilities.]
3482          [(2)] (1) Subject to the requirements of this section, [and for a municipality, Subsection
3483   10-8-2(4), a political subdivision] a governmental entity may grant real property owned by the
3484   [political subdivision] governmental entity to an entity for the development of [one or more
3485   affordable housing units on the real property that will serve households at various income
3486   levels whereby at least 20% of the housing units are affordable housing units] moderate income
3487   housing on the real property.
3488          [(3) A political subdivision]
3489          (2) A governmental entity shall ensure that real property granted [as described in]
3490   under Subsection [(2)] (1) is deed restricted for [affordable] moderate income housing for at
3491   least 30 years after the day on which each [affordable] moderate income housing unit is
3492   completed and occupied.
3493          [(4)] (3) If applicable, a [political subdivision] governmental entity granting real
3494   property under this section shall comply with:
3495          (a) the provisions of Title 78B, Chapter 6, Part 5, Eminent Domain[.];
3496          (b) Subsection 10-8-2(4), if a municipality is granting real property under this section;
3497          (c) Subsection 17-50-312(5), if a county is granting real property under this section;
3498   and
3499          (d) except as provided in Subsection (4), any other applicable provisions of law that
3500   govern the granting of real property by the governmental entity.
3501          [(5)] (4) A municipality granting real property under this section is not subject to the




                                                     - 125 -
         H.B. 462                                                                        Enrolled Copy
3502   provisions of Subsection 10-8-2(3).
3503          Section 38. Section 63N-3-113 is enacted to read:
3504          63N-3-113. Financial assistance to entities offering technical assistance to
3505   municipalities in connection with planning.
3506          (1) The administrator may provide money from the Industrial Assistance Account to an
3507   entity offering technical assistance to a municipality in connection with planning for housing,
3508   transportation, and growth.
3509          (2) As part of an application for receiving money under this section, an applicant shall:
3510          (a) describe the activities the entity will undertake to provide technical assistance to a
3511   municipality in connection with planning for housing, transportation, and growth; and
3512          (b) satisfy other criteria the administrator considers appropriate.
3513          (3) Before awarding any money under this section, the administrator shall:
3514          (a) make findings as to whether an applicant has satisfied the requirements of
3515   Subsection (2);
3516          (b) establish benchmarks and timeframes in which progress toward the completion of
3517   the agreed upon activities are to occur;
3518          (c) monitor compliance by an applicant with any contract or agreement entered into by
3519   the applicant and the state as provided by Section 63N-3-107; and
3520          (d) make funding decisions based upon appropriate findings and compliance.
3521          Section 39. Section 63N-3-603 is amended to read:
3522          63N-3-603. Applicability, requirements, and limitations on a housing and transit
3523   reinvestment zone.
3524          (1) A housing and transit reinvestment zone proposal created under this part shall
3525   promote the following objectives:
3526          (a) higher utilization of public transit;
3527          (b) increasing availability of housing, including affordable housing;
3528          (c) conservation of water resources through efficient land use;
3529          (d) improving air quality by reducing fuel consumption and motor vehicle trips;




                                                      - 126 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                          H.B. 462
3530          (e) encouraging transformative mixed-use development and investment in
3531   transportation and public transit infrastructure in strategic areas;
3532          (f) strategic land use and municipal planning in major transit investment corridors as
3533   described in Subsection 10-9a-403(2); and
3534          (g) increasing access to employment and educational opportunities.
3535          (2) In order to accomplish the objectives described in Subsection (1), a municipality or
3536   public transit county that initiates the process to create a housing and transit reinvestment zone
3537   as described in this part shall ensure that the proposal for a housing and transit reinvestment
3538   zone includes:
3539          (a) except as provided in Subsection (3), at least 10% of the proposed housing units
3540   within the housing and transit reinvestment zone are affordable housing units;
3541          (b) a dedication of at least 51% of the developable area within the housing and transit
3542   reinvestment zone to residential development with an average of 50 multi-family dwelling
3543   units per acre or greater; and
3544          (c) mixed-use development.
3545          (3) A municipality or public transit county that, at the time the housing and transit
3546   reinvestment zone proposal is approved by the housing and transit reinvestment zone
3547   committee, meets the affordable housing guidelines of the United States Department of
3548   Housing and Urban Development at 60% area median income is exempt from the requirement
3549   described in Subsection (2)(a).
3550          (4) A municipality or public transit county may only propose a housing and transit
3551   reinvestment zone that:
3552          (a) subject to Subsection (5):
3553          (i) (A) for a municipality, does not exceed a 1/3 mile radius of a commuter rail station;
3554   or
3555          (B) for a public transit county, does not exceed a 1/3 mile radius of a public transit
3556   hub; and
3557          (ii) has a total area of no more than 125 noncontiguous square acres;




                                                       - 127 -
         H.B. 462                                                                        Enrolled Copy
3558           (b) subject to Section 63N-3-607, proposes the capture of a maximum of 80% of each
3559   taxing entity's tax increment above the base year for a term of no more than 25 consecutive
3560   years on each parcel within a 45-year period not to exceed the tax increment amount approved
3561   in the housing and transit reinvestment zone proposal; and
3562           (c) the commencement of collection of tax increment, for all or a portion of the
3563   housing and transit reinvestment zone, will be triggered by providing notice as described in
3564   Subsection (6).
3565           (5) If a parcel is bisected by the 1/3 mile radius, the full parcel may be included as part
3566   of the housing and transit reinvestment zone area and will not count against the limitations
3567   described in Subsection (4)(a).
3568           (6) The notice of commencement of collection of tax increment required in Subsection
3569   (4)(c) shall be sent by mail or electronically to:
3570           (a) the tax commission;
3571           (b) the State Board of Education;
3572           (c) the state auditor;
3573           (d) the auditor of the county in which the housing and transit reinvestment zone is
3574   located;
3575           (e) each taxing entity affected by the collection of tax increment from the housing and
3576   transit reinvestment zone; and
3577           (f) the Governor's Office of Economic Opportunity.
3578           (7) (a) This Subsection (7) applies to a specified county, as defined in Section
3579   17-27a-408, that has created a small public transit district on or before January 1, 2022.
3580           (b) A county described in Subsection (7)(a) shall, in accordance with Section
3581   63N-3-604, prepare and submit to the Governor's Office of Economic Opportunity a proposal
3582   to create a housing and transit reinvestment zone on or before December 31, 2022.
3583           Section 40. Section 72-1-304 is amended to read:
3584           72-1-304. Written project prioritization process for new transportation capacity
3585   projects -- Rulemaking.




                                                       - 128 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                            H.B. 462
3586           (1) (a) The Transportation Commission, in consultation with the department and the
3587   metropolitan planning organizations as defined in Section 72-1-208.5, shall develop a written
3588   prioritization process for the prioritization of:
3589           (i) new transportation capacity projects that are or will be part of the state highway
3590   system under Chapter 4, Part 1, State Highways;
3591           (ii) paved pedestrian or paved nonmotorized transportation projects that:
3592           (A) mitigate traffic congestion on the state highway system; and
3593           (B) are part of an active transportation plan approved by the department;
3594           (iii) public transit projects that directly add capacity to the public transit systems within
3595   the state, not including facilities ancillary to the public transit system; and
3596           (iv) pedestrian or nonmotorized transportation projects that provide connection to a
3597   public transit system.
3598           (b) (i) A local government or district may nominate a project for prioritization in
3599   accordance with the process established by the commission in rule.
3600           (ii) If a local government or district nominates a project for prioritization by the
3601   commission, the local government or district shall provide data and evidence to show that:
3602           (A) the project will advance the purposes and goals described in Section 72-1-211;
3603           (B) for a public transit project, the local government or district has an ongoing funding
3604   source for operations and maintenance of the proposed development; and
3605           (C) the local government or district will provide 40% of the costs for the project as
3606   required by Subsection 72-2-124(4)(a)(viii) or 72-2-124(9)(e).
3607           (2) The following shall be included in the written prioritization process under
3608   Subsection (1):
3609           (a) a description of how the strategic initiatives of the department adopted under
3610   Section 72-1-211 are advanced by the written prioritization process;
3611           (b) a definition of the type of projects to which the written prioritization process
3612   applies;
3613           (c) specification of a weighted criteria system that is used to rank proposed projects




                                                       - 129 -
         H.B. 462                                                                          Enrolled Copy
3614   and how it will be used to determine which projects will be prioritized;
3615          (d) specification of the data that is necessary to apply the weighted ranking criteria; and
3616          (e) any other provisions the commission considers appropriate, which may include
3617   consideration of:
3618          (i) regional and statewide economic development impacts, including improved local
3619   access to:
3620          (A) employment;
3621          (B) educational facilities;
3622          (C) recreation;
3623          (D) commerce; and
3624          (E) residential areas, including moderate income housing as demonstrated in the local
3625   government's or district's general plan pursuant to Section 10-9a-403 or 17-27a-403;
3626          (ii) the extent to which local land use plans relevant to a project support and
3627   accomplish the strategic initiatives adopted under Section 72-1-211; and
3628          (iii) any matching funds provided by a political subdivision or public transit district in
3629   addition to the 40% required by Subsections 72-2-124(4)(a)(viii) and 72-2-124(9)(e).
3630          (3) (a) When prioritizing a public transit project that increases capacity, the
3631   commission:
3632          (i) may give priority consideration to projects that are part of a transit-oriented
3633   development or transit-supportive development as defined in Section 17B-2a-802; and
3634          (ii) shall give priority consideration to projects that are within the boundaries of a
3635   housing and transit reinvestment zone created pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 3, Part 6,
3636   Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act.
3637          (b) When prioritizing a transportation project that increases capacity, the commission
3638   may give priority consideration to projects that are:
3639          (i) part of a transportation reinvestment zone created under Section 11-13-227 if:
3640          (A) the state is a participant in the transportation reinvestment zone; or
3641          (B) the commission finds that the transportation reinvestment zone provides a benefit




                                                      - 130 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                          H.B. 462
3642   to the state transportation system; or
3643          (ii) within the boundaries of a housing and transit reinvestment zone created pursuant
3644   to Title 63N, Chapter 3, Part 6, Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act.
3645          (c) If the department receives a notice of prioritization for a municipality as described
3646   in Subsection 10-9a-408(5), or a notice of prioritization for a county as described in Subsection
3647   17-27a-408(5), the commission may, during the fiscal year specified in the notice, give priority
3648   consideration to transportation projects that are within the boundaries of the municipality or the
3649   unincorporated areas of the county.
3650          (4) In developing the written prioritization process, the commission:
3651          (a) shall seek and consider public comment by holding public meetings at locations
3652   throughout the state; and
3653          (b) may not consider local matching dollars as provided under Section 72-2-123 unless
3654   the state provides an equal opportunity to raise local matching dollars for state highway
3655   improvements within each county.
3656          (5) In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the
3657   Transportation Commission, in consultation with the department, shall make rules establishing
3658   the written prioritization process under Subsection (1).
3659          (6) The commission shall submit the proposed rules under this section to a committee
3660   or task force designated by the Legislative Management Committee for review prior to taking
3661   final action on the proposed rules or any proposed amendment to the rules described in
3662   Subsection (5).
3663          Section 41. Section 72-2-124 is amended to read:
3664          72-2-124. Transportation Investment Fund of 2005.
3665          (1) There is created a capital projects fund entitled the Transportation Investment Fund
3666   of 2005.
3667          (2) The fund consists of money generated from the following sources:
3668          (a) any voluntary contributions received for the maintenance, construction,
3669   reconstruction, or renovation of state and federal highways;




                                                     - 131 -
        H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
3670          (b) appropriations made to the fund by the Legislature;
3671          (c) registration fees designated under Section 41-1a-1201;
3672          (d) the sales and use tax revenues deposited into the fund in accordance with Section
3673   59-12-103; and
3674          (e) revenues transferred to the fund in accordance with Section 72-2-106.
3675          (3) (a) The fund shall earn interest.
3676          (b) All interest earned on fund money shall be deposited into the fund.
3677          (4) (a) Except as provided in Subsection (4)(b), the executive director may only use
3678   fund money to pay:
3679          (i) the costs of maintenance, construction, reconstruction, or renovation to state and
3680   federal highways prioritized by the Transportation Commission through the prioritization
3681   process for new transportation capacity projects adopted under Section 72-1-304;
3682          (ii) the costs of maintenance, construction, reconstruction, or renovation to the highway
3683   projects described in Subsections 63B-18-401(2), (3), and (4);
3684          (iii) principal, interest, and issuance costs of bonds authorized by Section 63B-18-401
3685   minus the costs paid from the County of the First Class Highway Projects Fund in accordance
3686   with Subsection 72-2-121(4)(e);
3687          (iv) for a fiscal year beginning on or after July 1, 2013, to transfer to the 2010 Salt
3688   Lake County Revenue Bond Sinking Fund created by Section 72-2-121.3 the amount certified
3689   by Salt Lake County in accordance with Subsection 72-2-121.3(4)(c) as necessary to pay the
3690   debt service on $30,000,000 of the revenue bonds issued by Salt Lake County;
3691          (v) principal, interest, and issuance costs of bonds authorized by Section 63B-16-101
3692   for projects prioritized in accordance with Section 72-2-125;
3693          (vi) all highway general obligation bonds that are intended to be paid from revenues in
3694   the Centennial Highway Fund created by Section 72-2-118;
3695          (vii) for fiscal year 2015-16 only, to transfer $25,000,000 to the County of the First
3696   Class Highway Projects Fund created in Section 72-2-121 to be used for the purposes described
3697   in Section 72-2-121;




                                                      - 132 -
        Enrolled Copy                                                                          H.B. 462
3698          (viii) if a political subdivision provides a contribution equal to or greater than 40% of
3699   the costs needed for construction, reconstruction, or renovation of paved pedestrian or paved
3700   nonmotorized transportation for projects that:
3701          (A) mitigate traffic congestion on the state highway system;
3702          (B) are part of an active transportation plan approved by the department; and
3703          (C) are prioritized by the commission through the prioritization process for new
3704   transportation capacity projects adopted under Section 72-1-304;
3705          (ix) $705,000,000 for the costs of right-of-way acquisition, construction,
3706   reconstruction, or renovation of or improvement to the following projects:
3707          (A) the connector road between Main Street and 1600 North in the city of Vineyard;
3708          (B) Geneva Road from University Parkway to 1800 South;
3709          (C) the SR-97 interchange at 5600 South on I-15;
3710          (D) two lanes on U-111 from Herriman Parkway to 11800 South;
3711          (E) widening I-15 between mileposts 10 and 13 and the interchange at milepost 11;
3712          (F) improvements to 1600 North in Orem from 1200 West to State Street;
3713          (G) widening I-15 between mileposts 6 and 8;
3714          (H) widening 1600 South from Main Street in the city of Spanish Fork to SR-51;
3715          (I) widening US 6 from Sheep Creek to Mill Fork between mileposts 195 and 197 in
3716   Spanish Fork Canyon;
3717          (J) I-15 northbound between mileposts 43 and 56;
3718          (K) a passing lane on SR-132 between mileposts 41.1 and 43.7 between mileposts 43
3719   and 45.1;
3720          (L) east Zion SR-9 improvements;
3721          (M) Toquerville Parkway;
3722          (N) an environmental study on Foothill Boulevard in the city of Saratoga Springs;
3723          (O) for construction of an interchange on Bangerter Highway at 13400 South; and
3724          (P) an environmental impact study for Kimball Junction in Summit County; and
3725          (x) $28,000,000 as pass-through funds, to be distributed as necessary to pay project




                                                     - 133 -
         H.B. 462                                                                       Enrolled Copy
3726   costs based upon a statement of cash flow that the local jurisdiction where the project is located
3727   provides to the department demonstrating the need for money for the project, for the following
3728   projects in the following amounts:
3729          (A) $5,000,000 for Payson Main Street repair and replacement;
3730          (B) $8,000,000 for a Bluffdale 14600 South railroad bypass;
3731          (C) $5,000,000 for improvements to 4700 South in Taylorsville; and
3732          (D) $10,000,000 for improvements to the west side frontage roads adjacent to U.S. 40
3733   between mile markers 7 and 10.
3734          (b) The executive director may use fund money to exchange for an equal or greater
3735   amount of federal transportation funds to be used as provided in Subsection (4)(a).
3736          (5) (a) Except as provided in Subsection (5)(b), if the department receives a notice of
3737   ineligibility for a municipality as described in Subsection 10-9a-408(7), the executive director
3738   may not program fund money to a project prioritized by the commission under Section
3739   72-1-304, including fund money from the Transit Transportation Investment Fund, within the
3740   boundaries of [a municipality that is required to adopt a moderate income housing plan element
3741   as part of the municipality's general plan as described in Subsection 10-9a-401(3), if the
3742   municipality has failed to adopt a moderate income housing plan element as part of the
3743   municipality's general plan or has failed to implement the requirements of the moderate income
3744   housing plan as determined by the results of the Department of Workforce Service's review of
3745   the annual moderate income housing report described in Subsection 35A-8-803(1)(a)(vii)] the
3746   municipality during the fiscal year specified in the notice.
3747          [(b) Within the boundaries of a municipality that is required under Subsection
3748   10-9a-401(3) to plan for moderate income housing growth but has failed to adopt a moderate
3749   income housing plan element as part of the municipality's general plan or has failed to
3750   implement the requirements of the moderate income housing plan as determined by the results
3751   of the Department of Workforce Service's review of the annual moderate income housing
3752   report described in Subsection 35A-8-803(1)(a)(vii), the executive director:]
3753          (b) Within the boundaries of a municipality described in Subsection (5)(a), the




                                                      - 134 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                          H.B. 462
3754   executive director:
3755          (i) may program fund money in accordance with Subsection (4)(a) for a limited-access
3756   facility or interchange connecting limited-access facilities;
3757          (ii) may not program fund money for the construction, reconstruction, or renovation of
3758   an interchange on a limited-access facility;
3759          (iii) may program Transit Transportation Investment Fund money for a
3760   multi-community fixed guideway public transportation project; and
3761          (iv) may not program Transit Transportation Investment Fund money for the
3762   construction, reconstruction, or renovation of a station that is part of a fixed guideway public
3763   transportation project.
3764          (c) Subsections (5)(a) and (b) do not apply to a project programmed by the executive
3765   director before [May 1, 2020] July 1, 2022, for projects prioritized by the commission under
3766   Section 72-1-304.
3767          (6) (a) Except as provided in Subsection (6)(b), if the department receives a notice of
3768   ineligibility for a county as described in Subsection 17-27a-408(7), the executive director may
3769   not program fund money to a project prioritized by the commission under Section 72-1-304,
3770   including fund money from the Transit Transportation Investment Fund, within the boundaries
3771   of the unincorporated area of [a county, if the county is required to adopt a moderate income
3772   housing plan element as part of the county's general plan as described in Subsection
3773   17-27a-401(3) and if the county has failed to adopt a moderate income housing plan element as
3774   part of the county's general plan or has failed to implement the requirements of the moderate
3775   income housing plan as determined by the results of the Department of Workforce Service's
3776   review of the annual moderate income housing report described in Subsection
3777   35A-8-803(1)(a)(vii)] the county during the fiscal year specified in the notice.
3778          [(b) Within the boundaries of the unincorporated area of a county where the county is
3779   required under Subsection 17-27a-401(3) to plan for moderate income housing growth but has
3780   failed to adopt a moderate income housing plan element as part of the county's general plan or
3781   has failed to implement the requirements of the moderate income housing plan as determined




                                                      - 135 -
         H.B. 462                                                                        Enrolled Copy
3782   by the results of the Department of Workforce Service's review of the annual moderate income
3783   housing report described in Subsection 35A-8-803(1)(a)(vii), the executive director:]
3784          (b) Within the boundaries of the unincorporated area of a county described in
3785   Subsection (6)(a), the executive director:
3786          (i) may program fund money in accordance with Subsection (4)(a) for a limited-access
3787   facility to a project prioritized by the commission under Section 72-1-304;
3788          (ii) may not program fund money for the construction, reconstruction, or renovation of
3789   an interchange on a limited-access facility;
3790          (iii) may program Transit Transportation Investment Fund money for a
3791   multi-community fixed guideway public transportation project; and
3792          (iv) may not program Transit Transportation Investment Fund money for the
3793   construction, reconstruction, or renovation of a station that is part of a fixed guideway public
3794   transportation project.
3795          (c) Subsections [(5)] (6)(a) and (b) do not apply to a project programmed by the
3796   executive director before July 1, [2020] 2022, for projects prioritized by the commission under
3797   Section 72-1-304.
3798          (7) (a) Before bonds authorized by Section 63B-18-401 or 63B-27-101 may be issued
3799   in any fiscal year, the department and the commission shall appear before the Executive
3800   Appropriations Committee of the Legislature and present the amount of bond proceeds that the
3801   department needs to provide funding for the projects identified in Subsections 63B-18-401(2),
3802   (3), and (4) or Subsection 63B-27-101(2) for the current or next fiscal year.
3803          (b) The Executive Appropriations Committee of the Legislature shall review and
3804   comment on the amount of bond proceeds needed to fund the projects.
3805          (8) The Division of Finance shall, from money deposited into the fund, transfer the
3806   amount of funds necessary to pay principal, interest, and issuance costs of bonds authorized by
3807   Section 63B-18-401 or 63B-27-101 in the current fiscal year to the appropriate debt service or
3808   sinking fund.
3809          (9) (a) There is created in the Transportation Investment Fund of 2005 the Transit




                                                      - 136 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                             H.B. 462
3810   Transportation Investment Fund.
3811          (b) The fund shall be funded by:
3812          (i) contributions deposited into the fund in accordance with Section 59-12-103;
3813          (ii) appropriations into the account by the Legislature;
3814          (iii) deposits of sales and use tax increment related to a housing and transit
3815   reinvestment zone as described in Section 63N-3-610;
3816          (iv) private contributions; and
3817          (v) donations or grants from public or private entities.
3818          (c) (i) The fund shall earn interest.
3819          (ii) All interest earned on fund money shall be deposited into the fund.
3820          (d) Subject to Subsection (9)(e), the Legislature may appropriate money from the fund
3821   for public transit capital development of new capacity projects to be used as prioritized by the
3822   commission through the prioritization process adopted under Section 72-1-304.
3823          (e) (i) The Legislature may only appropriate money from the fund for a public transit
3824   capital development project or pedestrian or nonmotorized transportation project that provides
3825   connection to the public transit system if the public transit district or political subdivision
3826   provides funds of equal to or greater than 40% of the costs needed for the project.
3827          (ii) A public transit district or political subdivision may use money derived from a loan
3828   granted pursuant to Title 72, Chapter 2, Part 2, State Infrastructure Bank Fund, to provide all or
3829   part of the 40% requirement described in Subsection (9)(e)(i) if:
3830          (A) the loan is approved by the commission as required in Title 72, Chapter 2, Part 2,
3831   State Infrastructure Bank Fund; and
3832          (B) the proposed capital project has been prioritized by the commission pursuant to
3833   Section 72-1-303.
3834          (10) (a) There is created in the Transportation Investment Fund of 2005 the
3835   Cottonwood Canyons Transportation Investment Fund.
3836          (b) The fund shall be funded by:
3837          (i) money deposited into the fund in accordance with Section 59-12-103;




                                                       - 137 -
        H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
3838          (ii) appropriations into the account by the Legislature;
3839          (iii) private contributions; and
3840          (iv) donations or grants from public or private entities.
3841          (c) (i) The fund shall earn interest.
3842          (ii) All interest earned on fund money shall be deposited into the fund.
3843          (d) The Legislature may appropriate money from the fund for public transit or
3844   transportation projects in the Cottonwood Canyons of Salt Lake County.
3845          Section 42. Appropriation.
3846          The following sums of money are appropriated for the fiscal year beginning July 1,
3847   2022, and ending June 30, 2023. These are additions to amounts previously appropriated for
3848   fiscal year 2023. Under the terms and conditions of Title 63J, Chapter 1, Budgetary Procedures
3849   Act, the Legislature appropriates the following sums of money from the funds or accounts
3850   indicated for the use and support of the government of the state of Utah.
3851   ITEM 1
3852          To Department of Workforce Services -- Housing and Community Development
3853                  From General Fund, One-time                                                   $500,000
3854                  Schedule of Programs:
3855                         Housing Development                                   $500,000
3856          The Legislature intends that the Department of Workforce Services use funds
3857   appropriated under this item to develop a statewide database for moderate income housing
3858   units as described in Subsection 35A-8-803(1)(a)(viii).
3859   ITEM 2
3860          To Department of Workforce Services -- Housing and Community Development
3861                  From General Fund, One-time                                                   $750,000
3862                  Schedule of Programs:
3863                         Housing Development                                   $750,000
3864          The Legislature intends that:
3865          (1) the Department of Workforce Services use $375,000 of the funds appropriated




                                                      - 138 -
         Enrolled Copy                                                                            H.B. 462
3866   under this item in each of the fiscal years 2023 and 2024 to provide assistance to landlords
3867   under the Department of Workforce Services' Section 8 Landlord Incentive Program; and
3868          (2) under the terms of Section 63J-1-603 of the Utah Code, appropriations under this
3869   item not lapse at the close of fiscal year 2023.
3870   ITEM 3
3871          To Department of Workforce Services -- Administration
3872                  From General Fund                                                                  $132,000
3873                  Schedule of Programs:
3874                          Administrative Support                         $132,000
3875          The Legislature intends that the Department of Workforce Services use funds
3876   appropriated under this item to hire one full-time equivalent employee.
3877   ITEM 4
3878          To Department of Workforce Services -- Housing and Community Development
3879                  From General Fund, One-time                                                        $250,000
3880                          Schedule of Programs:
3881                                  Housing Development                    $250,000
3882          The Legislature intends that:
3883          (1) the Department of Workforce Services distribute funds appropriated under this item
3884   to a nonprofit entity in the state that provides training and education on land use law;
3885          (2) the Department of Workforce Services follow the provisions of Title 63G, Chapter
3886   6a, Utah Procurement Code, in selecting the recipient entity; and
3887          (3) the recipient entity use funds distributed from the Department of Workforce
3888   Services under this item to provide regional land use training and workshops to local officials
3889   and policymakers on housing issues.
3890   ITEM 5
3891          To Department of Workforce Services -- Housing and Community Development
3892                  From General Fund, One-time                                                        $250,000
3893                          Schedule of Programs:




                                                      - 139 -
         H.B. 462                                                                         Enrolled Copy
3894                                  Housing Development                    $250,000
3895          The Legislature intends that:
3896          (1) the Department of Workforce Services distribute funds appropriated under this item
3897   to a nonprofit entity in the state that engages in efforts to increase housing affordability through
3898   local zoning and housing regulation reform; and
3899          (2) the Department of Workforce Services follow the provisions of Title 63G, Chapter
3900   6a, Utah Procurement Code, in selecting the recipient entity.
3901          Section 43. Effective date.
3902          This bill takes effect on June 1, 2022.
3903          Section 44. Coordinating H.B. 462 with H.B. 303 -- Substantive amendment.
3904          If this H.B. 462 and H.B. 303, Local Land Use Amendments, both pass and become
3905   law, it is the intent of the Legislature that the Office of Legislative Research and General
3906   Counsel on June 1, 2022, prepare the Utah Code database for publication by amending
3907   Subsection 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii)(K) in H.B. 462 to read:
3908          "[(L)] (K) preserve existing and new moderate income housing and subsidized units by
3909   utilizing a landlord incentive program, providing for deed restricted units through a grant
3910   program, or, notwithstanding Section 10-9a-535, establishing a housing loss mitigation fund;".




                                                        - 140 -
    Exhibit 3




Housing
   Plan

2019


            Planning and Development Services
      Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                 November 2019
                        Acknowledgements


Kearns Metro Township
    Planning Commission
    Kearns Metro Township Council
    Residents


Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
    Lupita McClenning, Director of Planning and Development Services
    Wendy Gurr, Planning Coordinator
    Mikala Jordan, Long Range Planner
    Max Johnson, Planner II
    Alex Rudowski, Planning and GIS




                                                                       2
Contents
Executive Summary ...............................................................................................5
Chapter One - Introduction .....................................................................................6
  Plan Structure ..........................................................................................................6
  Planning Context .....................................................................................................6
  Purpose of the Plan .................................................................................................7
  Moderate-Income Housing Planning Requirements ...............................................8
  Utah Fair Housing Act........................................................................................... 12
  Terminology ......................................................................................................... 12
     Types of Housing and Development .................................................................. 12
     Regarding Income ............................................................................................. 13
     Programs and Agencies ..................................................................................... 14
Chapter Two - Methodology ................................................................................ 15
  Background Research ........................................................................................... 15
  Consultation and Collaboration ........................................................................... 15
  Community Engagement ...................................................................................... 16
Chapter Three – Demographic Summary ............................................................ 19
  Population Size ..................................................................................................... 19
  Age........................................................................................................................ 19
  Race and Ethnicity ................................................................................................ 19
  Disabled ................................................................................................................ 20
  Veterans ............................................................................................................... 20
  Income.................................................................................................................. 20
Chapter Four – Housing Stock.............................................................................. 22
  Existing Housing ................................................................................................... 22
  Existing Housing Costs .......................................................................................... 26
  Cost-Burdened Housing ....................................................................................... 27


                                                                                                                              3
  Housing and Land-use .......................................................................................... 28
Chapter Five – Housing Availability and Affordability .......................................... 31
  Indication of Need by Demographics ................................................................... 31
  Targeted Income Groups and Affordability Thresholds ....................................... 32
     Targeted Income Groups by Family Size............................................................ 34
     Other Targeted Groups ..................................................................................... 34
  Availability of Housing Units for Targeted Income Groups .................................. 36
     All Households ................................................................................................... 36
     Renter Households ............................................................................................ 36
  Projected Availability of Housing Units for Targeted Income Groups.................. 38
Chapter Six – Action Plan ..................................................................................... 39
Chapter Seven – References ................................................................................ 42
Chapter Eight – Appendix .................................................................................... 43
  Topics ................................................................................................................... 43
  Example Ordinances ............................................................................................. 46
  List of Relevant Organizations and Websites ........................................... 46
  Methods ............................................................................................................... 48




                                                                                                                             4
Executive Summary

Highlights of Report

       In 2017, Kearns’ population was 37,194.
       A significant portion of Kearns’ population is under 18-years old,
         and young children are the fastest growing age group.
       2,627 households in Kearns are cost-burdened with their
         housing costs.
       Salt Lake County’s 2017 median household income is $67,922.
         For renter households, the median income is $42,351.
       In 2017, Kearns had a deficit of 112 housing units across
         targeted income groups.




                                                                         5
Chapter One - Introduction

Plan Structure
This housing plan is organized into six major sections:
       1.   Introduction
       2.   Methodology
       3.   Demographic Summary
       4.   Housing Stock
       5.   Housing Availability and Affordability
       6.   Action Plan
The sections progress from an understanding of the plan’s impetus and the community’s existing
conditions, to the methods used to make this plan, to an analysis of affordable housing in the
community, to an action plan to accomplish Kearns’ goals.


Planning Context
State code requires that general plans estimate the need for moderate-income housing. This plan
estimates the current need and projects the future need in Kearns Metro Township. The
assessment of current conditions guided the development of goals and action items in the
Moderate-Income Housing Plan. These goals address community needs regarding housing,
including its connection to land-use and transportation. Our findings can inform on-the-ground
decisions and township policies as well as General Plan updates and future planning. The housing
plan will be reviewed biennially using the Department of Workforce Services’ Report Form. The
review will evaluate Kearns’ progress toward its goals and policies regarding housing as outlined
in this plan.
Kearns Metro Township and the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District understand that good
planning encourages and includes public input. This assessment will be shared during public
outreach events regarding the formation of the Moderate-Income Housing Plan. Additionally, the
metro township council, metro township planning commission, and general plan steering
committee will receive copies of this assessment via email and/or in-person at meetings.
Additionally, Kearns Metro Township and the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
recognize the importance of regional cooperation, especially regarding housing. Kearns’ planners
are actively engaged in the Wasatch Front Regional Council committees, including the Technical
Advisory Committee, the Active Transportation Committee, and the Regional Growth Committee.
Expertise and information from the Utah Department of Workforce Services, Housing and
Community Development Division; the Wasatch Front Regional Council; the Utah League of Cities
and Towns; Zions Public Finance; and others all contributed to this assessment.




                                                                                               6
Purpose of the Plan
Based upon regulatory requirements by the State of Utah, existing conditions, future projections,
community feedback, and planning best practices, the plan has the following objectives:
       Meet regulatory requirements by reporting the current status of housing to the State of
       Utah and to provide a methodology to meet community needs. House Bill 295
       (represented in Utah Code 10-9a-403 and 10-9a-408) and Senate Bill 34 state these
       regulatory requirements.
       Provide Kearns Metro Township with the necessary resources to inform residential
       development decisions to be beneficial, fair, equitable, and a good fit for the needs of
       residents. Decisions made regarding zoning, fees, land-use planning, and other choices
       can impact housing. These decisions are best made with full and detailed information
       regarding current and future conditions and needs.
       Provide an action plan and tools for implementing community goals. The action plan is
       presented as broad goals with specific objectives, as well as with policies and work
       programs that support these goals and objectives. The action plan informs how to put
       ideas into practice.
       Enhance quality of life in the community with a community-based, ground-truthed housing
       plan. Housing matters. Affordable, safe housing bolster’s the well-being of its residents at
       all income levels. When people are housed affordably, crime rates drop, and poverty is
       reduced. Low-income households depend less on public assistance and are more self-
       reliant when housed safely, affordably, and stably. When the workforce can afford to live
       in the community, businesses have access to employees, which influences the wages
       employees are willing to work for and thus impacts the number of well-paying jobs that
       local businesses offer. Furthermore, housing is directly tied to transportation, land-use,
       and community cohesion. Well-planned neighborhoods with balanced housing options
       improve traffic congestion, are compatible with community open-space needs, and keep
       “eyes on the street,” which encourages walkability and neighborliness. Overall, the
       presence of decent, affordable housing supports and bolsters the long-term character of
       the Kearns community and the County as a whole.




                                                                                                 7
The following legislative information is provided for context regarding the requirements of the
Moderate-Income Housing Plan. From this context, the reasons for the information included in the
assessment of current conditions become apparent.

Moderate-Income Housing Planning Requirements
In 1996, the Utah Legislature passed House Bill 295 to address the availability of moderate-income
housing in response to a rapid increase in housing prices. Under threats to the dream of
homeownership, as well as to community strength and stability, House Bill 295 (represented in
Utah Code 10-9a-403 and 10-9a-408) requires municipalities to consider moderate-income
housing concerns and housing needs of residents as part of their general plans and other planning
efforts. The Code requires an estimate of the “need for the development of additional moderate-
income housing within the city, and a plan to provide a realistic opportunity to meet estimated
needs” to “(A) meet the needs of people desiring to live there; and (B) to allow persons with
moderate incomes to benefit from and fully participate in all aspects of neighborhood and
community life.” In 2018, House Bill 259 was passed to reiterate the importance of planning for
moderate-income housing in Utah. In February 2019, Senate Bill 34 was passed. The new
legislation “modifies provisions related to a municipality’s and a county’s general plan related to
moderate income housing.” It defines terms, requires general plans to integrate affordable
housing with the transportation and land-use elements, and requires municipalities of a certain
population size to have a moderate-income housing element in the general plan. Senate Bill 34
states that, for qualifying municipalities, the general plan must “provid[e] a realistic opportunity
to meet the need for additional moderate-income housing” by including at least three of 23 listed
strategies.
The Wasatch Front Regional Council and the Utah League of Cities and Towns produced a summary
of the current legal requirements (and changes to previous requirements) for municipalities and
counties regarding planning and moderate-income housing. They summarize:
       Land Use element: Must now consider location of land for housing for residents of various
       income levels in addition to the other categories of public and private uses of land (line
       481 for municipalities; 1172 for counties).
       Transportation and Traffic Circulation element: “Provide the general location and extent”
       of active transportation facilities in addition to freeways, arterial and collector streets,
       public transit, and other modes of transportation (491; 1182).
       Plan residential and commercial development around “major transit investment corridors”
       to improve connections between housing, employment, education, recreation, and
       commerce (494; 1185).
               Defines “major transit investment corridor” as public transit service that uses or
               occupies: (a) public transit rail right-of-way; (b) dedicated road right-of-way for the
               use of public transit, such as bus rapid transit; or (c) fixed-route bus corridors
               subject to an interlocal agreement or contract between a municipality or county


                                                                                                    8
       and (i) a public transit district as defined in Section 17B-2a-802, or (ii) an eligible
       political subdivision as defined in Section 59-12-2219 (246; 858).
       Municipalities without a major transit investment corridor must plan for residential
       and commercial development in areas that maintain and improve these
       connections (498).
Correlate the transportation plan with population and employment projections, and the
proposed land use element (502, 1188).
Consider the regional transportation plan developed by the region’s metropolitan planning
organization (MPO); if outside an MPO, consider the long-range transportation plan
developed by UDOT (575; 1258).
Moderate-Income Housing (MIH) element: Municipalities/counties covered: Utah Code
has long required municipalities and counties to plan for moderate income housing
growth. SB34 requires, by December 1, 2019, the following municipalities and counties to
update and adopt the moderate-income housing element of their general plan (444; 1074),
and annually report on implementation (614; 1296):
       all municipalities of the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th class;
       cities of the 5th class with a population of 5,000 or more that are located in
       counties of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd class;
       metro townships with a population of 5,000 or more; and
       all counties must plan and adopt a MIH element including strategies from the
       ‘menu’ (see below) but only counties of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd class with an
       unincorporated population of 5,000 or more must annually report on
       implementation.
Facilitate a reasonable opportunity for a variety of housing including MIH and shall now 1)
meet the needs of people of various income levels living, working, or desiring to live or
work in the community (509; 1198); 2) “allow people with various incomes to benefit from
and participate in all aspects of neighborhood and community life” (511; 1200); 3) towns
may and cities shall analyze how they will provide a realistic opportunity for the
development of MIH within 5 years for cities (513) and within the planning horizon for
counties (1203).
Menu: Shall include a recommendation to implement 3 or more of the following strategies,
aka the ‘menu’ (518; 1205):
(A) rezone for densities necessary to assure the production of MIH
(B) facilitate the rehabilitation or expansion of infrastructure that will encourage the
construction of MIH
(C) facilitate the rehabilitation of existing uninhabitable housing stock into MIH


                                                                                            9
(D) consider general fund subsidies or other sources of revenue to waive construction
related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the city
(E) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, accessory dwelling units in
residential zones
(F) allow for higher density or moderate-income residential development in commercial
and mixed-use zones, commercial centers, or employment centers
(G) encourage higher density or moderate-income residential development near major
transit investment corridors
(H) eliminate or reduce parking requirements for residential development where a
resident is less likely to rely on their own vehicle, e.g. residential development near major
transit investment corridors or senior living facilities
(I) allow for single room occupancy developments
(J) implement zoning incentives for low to moderate income units in new developments
(K) utilize strategies that preserve subsidized low to moderate income units on a long-term
basis
(L) preserve existing MIH
(M) reduce impact fees, as defined in Section 11-36a-102, related to low and MIH
(N) participate in a community land trust program for low or MIH
(O) implement a mortgage assistance program for employees of the municipality or of an
employer that provides contracted services to the municipality
(P) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax
incentives to promote the construction of MIH
(Q) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for programs offered by the Utah
Housing Corporation within that agency's funding capacity
(R) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for affordable housing programs
administered by the Department of Workforce Services
(S) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for programs administered by an
association of governments established by an interlocal agreement under Title 11, Chapter
13, Interlocal Cooperation Act [not in county list of recommendations]
(T) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for services provided by a public housing
authority to preserve and create MIH
(U) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for programs administered by a
metropolitan planning organization or other transportation agency that provides technical
planning assistance


                                                                                           10
(V) utilize a MIH set aside from a community reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency,
or community development and renewal agency
(W) any other program or strategy implemented by the municipality to address the housing
needs of residents of the municipality who earn less than 80% of the area median income
In addition to the recommendations required above, municipalities that have a “fixed
guideway public transit station” shall include a recommendation to implement either “G”
or “H” (568) [not required for counties].
Annual reporting and review of the moderate-income housing plan: The municipal/county
legislative body shall annually review their MIH plan and implementation of that plan;
prepare and post a report of their findings on their website; and send the report to Dept.
of Workforce Services, AOG, and MPO if applicable (612; 1294).
       The report shall include: a) revised estimate of the need for MIH in the next 5 years;
       b) description of progress made to provide MIH by analyzing and publishing data
       on the # of housing units that are at or below 80%, 50%, and 30% adjusted median
       family income; c) description of efforts to utilize a MIH set-aside from community
       reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and
       renewal agency; d) description of the implementation of the MIH
       recommendations aka ‘menu’.
       Requires the DWS Division of Housing and Community Development to (i) assist in
       the creation of the MIH reports, and (ii) evaluate the reports for purposes of
       determining eligibility for state transportation funds. Gives DWS rulemaking
       authority to develop the evaluation process (1414).
Revisions to Olene Walker Housing Loan Fund (1325): SB34 did not provide any additional
funding for housing. Revises Olene Walker Housing Loan Fund board to add one member
with expertise in transit-oriented development and one member who represents rural
interests. The board must hold two public input meetings each year, once in a rural area.
Allows fund money to be used to purchase land for low-income housing (1388).
Revisions to state transportation funding: Adds access to educational facilities and MIH to
the prioritization process for new transportation capacity projects administered by the
Utah Transportation Commission (1749). State Transportation Investment Fund (TIF) or
Transit Transportation Investment Fund (TTIF) funds may not be used in a municipality or
unincorporated county that has failed to adopt a MIH plan or has failed to report on
implementation of their MIH plan as determined by DWS. TIF funds can still be used for a
limited-access facility, but not for construction, reconstruction, or renovation of an
interchange. TTIF funds can still be used for a multi-community fixed-guideway public
transportation project, but not for the construction, reconstruction, or renovation of a
station (1808).




                                                                                          11
Utah Fair Housing Act
In accordance with state and federal laws, Kearns Metro Township exercises the authority to plan,
zone, and regulate land‐use in promoting the community’s health, safety, and welfare. The
moderate‐income housing element of this plan acknowledges and upholds the Utah Fair Housing
Act by promoting the equal protection and equitable treatment of all people who lawfully seek to
rent, lease, purchase, or develop real property within its jurisdiction. Its housing policies and plans
strictly prohibit discrimination based on color, disability, ethnicity, familial status, gender identity,
national origin, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, source of income, or any other suspect
classification. It is the policy of Kearns Metro Township to report housing discrimination to the
Utah Antidiscrimination Labor Division immediately. It is the goal of Kearns Metro Township to
prevent, eliminate, and/or mitigate any unfair housing practices that may result from its plans,
policies, regulations, and ordinances. It is also the goal Kearns Metro Township to affirmatively
further fair and affordable housing by reviewing the housing needs of its moderate‐income
households and its vulnerable populations biennially, and by proactively planning to meet their
needs.



Terminology
A variety of terms are used in this plan in reference to housing. The following list defines and
explains these terms:

Types of Housing and Development
Housing unit: a house, an apartment, a group of rooms, or a single room occupied or intended for
occupancy as separate living quarters
Single-family residential: housing units that are individually assessed and can be bought and sold
as a single unit. This includes single-family dwellings, townhomes, condos, and mobile homes.
Multi-family residential: housing units such as duplexes and apartments, that are typically rented
Workforce housing: housing for which gross monthly costs target working class households.
Workforce housing aims to allow people gainfully employed in working class occupations to live
and work in the same community. (Definition from ULCT “Housing Policy in Utah” 2018).
Fair housing: The Federal Fair Housing Act (Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968) protects people
from discrimination when they are renting, buying, or securing financing for any housing. The
prohibitions specifically cover discrimination because of race, color, national origin, religion, sex,
disability, and children. In Utah, state law also recognizes source of income as a protected class.
(Definition from ULCT “Housing Policy in Utah” 2018).
Transit-oriented development (TOD): type of development that maximizes the amount of mixed-
use development that is built around quality transit hubs, including train and bus centers. Linking
housing and transportation can give workers better access to jobs, and businesses better access
to potential employees and customers. (Definition from ULCT “Housing Policy in Utah” 2018).


                                                                                                      12
Mixed-use development: pedestrian-friendly development that blends two or more residential,
commercial, cultural, institutional, and/or industrial uses. A mixed-use development may have
retail space on the bottom floor of a multi-story building with offices and apartments on the
middle and top floors. It can provide for ample job opportunities, convenience amenities, and a
high walkability score for individuals on residential floors or residing in nearby communities.
(Definition from ULCT “Housing Policy in Utah” 2018).
Accessory dwelling unit (ADU): small, self-contained residential units located on the same lot as
an existing, single-family home. These can be attached or detached units. (Definition from ULCT
“Housing Policy in Utah” 2018).
Infill development: development of vacant or under-used parcels within existing urban centers
that are otherwise built-out and fully developed. (Definition from ULCT “Housing Policy in Utah”
2018).

Regarding Income
Area median income (AMI): the median family income level for an area (in this report, Salt Lake
County) as determined by the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, based on
U.S. Census data. The median divides the income distribution into two equal parts: one-half of the
cases fall below the median income and one-half above it. HUD uses the median income to
calculate income limits for eligibility in a variety of housing programs. HUD estimates the median
family income for an area and adjusts that amount for different family sizes. Referred to as AMI
in this plan.
Target income groups: Low-income households are split into three groups based upon a
percentage of the AMI. They are referred to as the Targeted Income Groups in this plan. The
three groups include:
       Moderate-income – 80 to 50 percent of AMI
       Low-income – 50 to 30 percent of AMI
       Very low-income – 30 percent of AMI and less
Monthly housing allowance: the maximum amount a household can spend on housing costs per
month, including utilities and other fees. The monthly housing allowance represents the total
housing costs affordable at 30 percent of gross income. (Definition from ULCT “Housing Policy in
Utah” 2018).
Housing Cost-Burden: a household that spends 30% or more of their income on housing costs,
including rent and utilities.
Affordability threshold: the maximum home price for each of the targeted income groups based
on calculated monthly housing allowances
Housing gap: the difference between the number of housing units available at 30, 50, 80, and 100
percent AMI and the number of households at those income levels. If there are more households



                                                                                               13
than available housing units, then households are forced to pay above or below their means for
their housing.

Programs and Agencies
Affordable Housing Program (AHP): a federal competitive program of the Federal Home Loan Bank
system that provides grants twice a year through financial institutions for investment in low- or
moderate-income housing initiatives. This program is flexible: AHP funds can be used in
combination with other programs and funding sources, helping makes projects more feasible.
(Definition from ULCT “Housing Policy in Utah” 2018).
American Community Survey (ACS): an annual survey administered by the U.S. Census Bureau
that gathers demographic and economic data from a sample of the U.S. population.
Utah Department of Workforce Services (DWS): an agency that consolidates employment and
public assistance programs to help people find jobs, to assist businesses in finding workforces, and
to support housing needs.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD): This agency develops and implements
policies regarding housing and metropolises. The Utah branch offers programs to help provide
affordable housing.
Low-income housing tax credit program (LIHTC): This program was formed in the Federal Tax
Reform Act of 1986. Developer-owners of LIHTC properties can get credits for federal income tax
liability, so the program incentives developers to invest in affordable housing projects. There are
also state run LIHTC programs. The Utah Housing Corporation (UHC), made in 1975 by Utah
legislation, creates an adequate supply of money available for mortgage loans at reasonable
interest rates help provide affordable housing for low- and moderate-income persons. (Definition
from ULCT “Housing Policy in Utah” 2018).
Olene Walker Housing Loan Fund (OWHLF): Created in 1987 by the State of Utah, the OWHLF
supports quality affordable housing options to meet the needs of Utah’s individuals and families.
The fund partners with public and private organizations to develop housing that is affordable for
moderate-income, low-income, and very low-income households. (Definition from ULCT “Housing
Policy in Utah” 2018).
United States Census Bureau (USCB): a federal agency in charge of the decennial census and the
yearly American Community Survey data on population and demographics throughout the United
States.
Utah Non-Profit Housing Corporation (UNPHC): a non-profit that aims to help develop and provide
affordable housing to families throughout Utah.




                                                                                                 14
Chapter Two - Methodology

Background Research
A variety of resources were used in the formation of this plan. Data were retrieved from the
United States Census Bureau American Community Surveys, ESRI Business Analyst Online, and Salt
Lake County Geographic Information Systems. The Utah Department of Workforce Services,
Housing and Community Development Division, provides a database of resources to assist
municipalities in the creation of their moderate-income housing plans. The following resources
were particularly critical in this assessment’s development:
   •   Moderate-income housing element outline
   •   Moderate-income plan writing guide
   •   DWS housing projection tool
   •   Model resolution for amending the general plan
   •   Affordable housing plan examples:
           o City of Meropis: Moderate-Income Housing Plan
           o Salt Lake County: Moderate-Income Housing Plan 2017
           o Sandy City General Plan: Section 3 Housing Needs
           o South Salt Lake City: Moderate-Income Housing Plan
           o State of Utah Affordable Housing Report 2018
           o Snyderville Basin and East Summit County: Housing Affordability Assessment


Consultation and Collaboration
Planning staff collaborated with and consulted various housing experts in researching and writing
this plan. On 18 May 2019, staff attended SB 34 housing training sessions hosted by The Utah
League of Cities and Towns. Staff consulted David Fields, Housing and Community Development,
Utah Department of Workforce Services, regarding SB 34 requirements for the metro townships.
Staff also corresponded with Meg Ryan, The Utah League of Cities and Towns, for her information
and expertise on housing legislation. Planning staff met with Michael Gallegos and Jake Young,
Salt Lake County, Department of Housing and Community Development to discuss housing
opportunities for Kearns. On 22 August 2019, staff attended the Salt Lake County Community
Needs Assessment Meeting. Hosted by Salt Lake County, Department of Housing and Community
Development, this meeting brought together stakeholders from throughout the Greater Salt Lake
Municipal Services District to discuss community needs, including housing.




                                                                                              15
Community Engagement
Greater Salt Lake MSD Planning staff focused on eliciting pubic desires and needs for housing with
the goal of completing the Housing Element by the December 2019 deadline. Beginning early July,
staff coordinated with Mayor Kelly Bush about the required Moderate-Income Housing Plan. Staff
developed and sent a timeline for accomplishing this Plan. In early August, staff surveyed the
Metro Township Council and the Planning Commission for a preferred Housing Element Open
House date. From this feedback, planning staff scheduled a Housing Element Open House on 28
September 2019. The Open House included Magna, Kearns, White City Metro Townships, and
Unincorporated Salt Lake County. Salt Lake County Department of Housing and Community
Development also participated in the Open House.
Staff kept the Metro Township Council, Planning Commission, and General Plan Steering
Committee updated on the Housing Element Open House agenda and asked that the Open House
be promulgated by inviting friends and neighbors. Stakeholders were provided the Housing Plan
timeline, a summary of Senate Bill 34, and the Department of Workforce Services Moderate-
Income Housing Plan Writing Guide. A flyer announcing the Open House was posted on Kearns
Metro Township website as well as Kearns Community Council facebook page. Staff also reached
out to local and state agencies and non-profits concerned with housing and invited them to the
Housing Element Open House. While coordinating with the Metro Township Council and Planning
Commission, planning staff sent drafts of Kearns’ Housing Assessment for their reference. A final
draft of the assessment was prepared for the Housing Element Open House.
At the Housing Element Open House, Randy Jepperson from Salt Lake County Regional
Development spoke about the Green and Healthy Homes Initiative. This exemplified the kind of
program that Kearns could partner with to strengthen its moderate-income housing supply.
Following Randy’s presentation, Christie Oostema from People + Place, LLC spoke with residents
about community needs and informed them of the Consolidated Plan.




                                                                                               16
As part of the Open House, participants were asked to provide community feedback. Planning
staff worked with communities in break-out sessions. Large printed maps of current zoning,
housing, and transportation systems were used as visual aids. Residents from Kearns discussed
many of the 23 Menu Items. They talked through what they thought could be implemented and
what they thought would be effective.
When community members felt ready, they voted on their top three preferred Menu Items
prescribed by SB 34. These items were listed in large print on easels. Each community was
assigned a different color sticker for planning staff to record those items preferred by each
community. Kearns residents voted for six of the 23 elements (Table 1). Additionally, a Comments
Box was provided for the public to leave opinions not captured by the voting exercise.




                                                                                             17
            Table 1: Kearns’ Votes for SB 34 Menu Items
Menu Item                                        Number of Votes
B) Facilitate the rehabilitation or expansion of
infrastructure that will encourage the           1
construction of MIH
C) Facilitate the rehabilitation of existing
uninhabitable housing stock into MIH             3
E) Create or allow for, and reduce regulations
related to, accessory dwelling units in          4
residential zones
F) Allow for higher density or moderate-
income residential development in
commercial and mixed-use zones, commercial 1
centers, or employment centers
G) Encourage higher density or moderate-
income residential development near major        1
transit investment corridors
L) Preserve existing MIH                       2




                                                                   18
Chapter Three - Demographic Summary

Population Size
Kearns Metro Township is in the central-west part of Salt Lake County. Population in 2017
numbered approximately 37,194 people (ACS DP1) with a household size of 3.75 (ACS DP2).
Population in 2017 showed a four percent increase from 2010’s population of 35,731 (ACS DP4).
Population is predicted to keep growing, but at a lower rate (Table 2). The rate of population
growth between 1990 and 2010 was 26 percent, while growth between 2000 and 2020 is
predicted to be 19 percent.
ESRI Business Analyst Online predicts a 2024 population of 37,804; similarly, Utah Department of
Workforce Services predicts a 2024 population of 38,953. Given the high growth rates of
surrounding areas and Kearns’s relative location in the growing Salt Lake Valley, growth makes
sense. Salt Lake County’s 2017 population numbered 1,029,655 (ACS DP1). Between 2010 and
2017, Salt Lake County displayed a growth rate of 10 percent.
Table 2: Historic and Projected Population




                                  Source: ACS DP1 and B01003; S. Manson, J. Schroeder, D. Van Riper, & S.
                                  Ruggles. IPUMS NGHIS: V13.0 [Database]. Minneapolis: University of
                                  Minnesota. 2018; ESRI Business Analyst Online “Demographic and Income
                                  Profile”; Department of Workforce Services (DWS) “5-Year Housing
                                  Projection Calculator”



Age
As of 2017, Kearns’s median age was 29.6 years (ACS DP1). This value shows an approximately
one-year increase from 2010, when the median age was 28.4 years (ACS DP1). Kearns’s median
age is about three years younger than Salt Lake County (32.9 years) (ACS DP1). Median age is
projected to increase slightly by 2024, to 30.7 years (ESRI Business Analyst Online “Demographic
and Income Profile). Kearns has a numerous population of children; in fact, over 32 percent of
people in Kearns are under 18 years old. About eight percent of the population is elderly, or 65
years or older (ACS DP1). ESRI Business Analyst Online predicts highest growth (18 percent) in
young children (5 to 14) over the next five years (“Detailed Age Profile”).

Race and Ethnicity
Kearns has become increasingly racially and ethnically diverse. In 2019, 21.0 percent of Kearns
residents identify as some other race, 4.0 percent identify as two or more races, and 3.0 percent
identify as Native Hawaiian and other Pacific Islander (ESRI Business Analyst Online “Demographic

                                                                                                       19
and Income Profile”). 35.3 percent of Kearns residents of any race identify as Hispanic or Latino/a.
66.1 percent of Kearns residents are white. Kearns is predicted to become more diverse by 2024,
with a non-white population approaching 37 percent (ESRI Business Analyst Online “Demographic
and Income Profile“).

Disabled
Of Kearns’s 37,172 people in 2017, 3,818 (or about 10.3 percent) had a disability in 2017. 5.2
percent had an ambulatory difficulty (ACS S1810). 4.2 percent had an independent living difficulty
while 1.6 percent had a self-care difficulty (ACS S1810). 2.6 percent had a hearing difficulty; 4.7
percent had a vision difficulty; and 5.6 percent had a cognitive difficulty (ACS S1810). About a
third of those 75 years and over had a hearing difficulty, ambulatory difficulty, or independent
living difficulty. The most common disability for the population under 18 years old was having a
cognitive difficulty: 617 children, or 7.0 percent of Kearns’s population of children, had a cognitive
difficulty in 2017 (ACS S1810).
Assuming this percentage (10.3 percent of total population) remains constant, Kearns could have
3,894 people with disabilities in 2024 using ESRI’s total population estimate of 37,804 or 4,012
people with disabilities in 2024 using DWS’s total population estimate of 38,953. People with
disabilities face particular difficulties regarding housing, from affordability to specific structural
needs (such as wheelchair ramps, easy access to public transit, etc.). Effective planning is needed
to meet the needs of this group as its population grows.

Veterans
In 2017, 1,252 people (five percent of Kearns’s population) were veterans (ACS S2101). Of this
population of veterans, 371 people had a disability (ACS B21100). This means that about 30
percent of veterans in Kearns had a disability in 2017. Additionally, this means that 10 percent of
all people with disabilities in Kearns in 2017 were veterans. Carrying these percentages into the
future, there may be 1,948 veterans in 2024 (using DWS estimate). This translates to about 584
veterans with disabilities in 2024.

Income
There are three main measures of household income: mean, median, and per capita. Mean
household income averages the income of all households in an area of consideration. Kearns’s
2017 mean household income was $66,723 (ACS DP3). Per capita income is the total income
divided by the total population; it conveys per person income assuming an even distribution.
Kearns’s 2017 per capita income was $18,933 (ACS DP3). Median household income is the middle
amount when listing all household incomes from low to high. MHI is a better indicator of typical
income than the mean household income if there are high or low outliers that artificially change
the average. Kearns’s MHI in 2010 was $52,790; by 2017, MHI rose to $59,543 (ACS DP3). In
2017, MHI for owner-occupied households was $63,508 while MHI for renter households was
$45,981 (ACS B25119).
Area median income, AMI, is the median household income of the larger geography in which a
municipality is located. Both state guidelines and federal programs require housing to consider
targeted low- and moderate-income groups in relation to housing affordability by using an AMI

                                                                                                   20
calculation. The scale of consideration must be regional. This ensures a reasonable opportunity
for moderate income households to move to the community. Per Utah Senate Bill 34, the AMI
used in this study is based on the AMI for Salt Lake County 1. Salt Lake County’s 2017 AMI was
$67,922 (Table 3). It is important to note that the median income for Kearns, $59,543, is
significantly below that of Salt Lake County. Households of various types, such as renter
households or single-female parent households, have different median incomes. Types of
households with median incomes well below the median include renter households, Black or
African American households, families with single female householder, female non-family
householders, male non-family householders, and elderly households.
Table 3: Median Household Income according to type of Household




Data Source: ACS B25119 and S1903




1
  Utah State Legislature 10-9a-103: 36 “Moderate income housing means housing occupied or reserved for
occupancy by households with a gross household income equal to or less than 80% of the median gross
income for households of the same size in the county in which the city is located.”

                                                                                                    21
Chapter Four - Housing Stock

Existing Housing
Housing value in Kearns is concentrated in the range of $100,000 to $300,000 (Table 4). 91.9
percent of the 8,102 owner-occupied houses, or 7,447 units, are valued in this range. Slightly over
one-third are valued between $150,00 and $199,999 while slightly under one-third are valued at
$100,000 to $149,000. Median value increased from $160,700 to $164,900 from 2010 to 2017.
This marks 2.6 percent growth. In comparison, Salt Lake County’s housing value grew by 9.8
percent from $237,500 to $260,700.


Table 4: 2017 Housing Values in Kearns




Data Source: ACS DP4



In 2017, Kearns held 9,892 occupied housing units (ACS DP4) (Table 5). The mode type of unit was
detached single units, which numbered 9,457. There were also 100 attached single units. 198
housing types are mobile homes and 185 housing types are 10 to 19-unit apartments. 2,273 units
(22.3 percent) have seven rooms and 2,187 units (21.5 percent) have six rooms (ACS DP4) (Table
6). Most units have three bedrooms (4,296 units or 42.2 percent) or four bedrooms (3,440 units
or 33.8 percent) (ACS DP4).




                                                                                                22
Table 5: Housing Types




Data Source: ACS DP4



Table 6: Number of Rooms and Bedrooms per Unit in 2017




Data Source: ACS DP4




                                                         23
Most units were owner-occupied (1,496 or 85.4 percent) but 255 units were rented (14.6 percent)
(Table 7). While 389 units were vacant in 2010, only 298 were vacant in 2017 (ACS DP4). In
comparison to 2019 numbers, ESRI predicts that 230 more owner-occupied units and 31 more
renter-occupied units will be available in Kearns by 2024 (“Demographic and Income Profile”).
Table 7: Housing Occupancy in Kearns




Data Source: ACS DP4; ESRI Business Analyst Online “Demographic and Income Profile”


Salt Lake County has specific and recent summations of residential housing projects. Based on Salt
Lake County permitting records, between 2014 and 2019, 22 permits were issued for new
residential, single family construction. Five permits were issued for residential multi-family
construction, and four permits were issued for residential two family construction. An additional
222 certificates were issued for remodels, garages, living spaces, or additions. In Table 8, projects
with actual or potential influence on housing stock are included (for example, a new detached
garage could be retrofitted as a mother-in-law apartment in the future). From November 2014
through July 2019, projects relevant to this assessment included:
Table 8: Recent Residential Permits in Kearns




Data Source: Salt Lake County “Residential Permits”




                                                                                                  24
Kearns’ houses have reportedly adequate facilities. In 2017, all housing units had complete
plumbing facilities and only 0.2 percent (19 units) lacked complete kitchen facilities (ACS DP04)
(Table 9). In 2010, 35 housing units lacked plumbing facilities and 25 lacked kitchen facilities, so
improvement occurred over time. Additionally, 99 households gained telephone services between
2010 and 2017. The majority—64 percent, or 6,516 houses—are at least 49 years old (built before
1980). Over one-third of houses (34.7 percent, 3,546 houses)) are about 60 years old or older
(built before 1960). 21 housing units were built between 2010 and 2017. Therefore, upkeep and
maintenance costs for homeowners are likely high.
Table 9: Housing Conditions and Age in Kearns




Data Source: ACS DP4




                                                                                                 25
Existing Housing Costs
Housing costs are divided into nine categories. They range from under $300 to more than $3,000
per month. About 62 percent of renters and owners pay between $1,000 and $1,999 a month in
housing costs (Figures 1). Similarly, about 60 percent of homeowners pay that much per month
(Figure 2). 26 percent of renters pay between $500 and $999 per month. 12.9 percent of renters
pay in the lowest three cost brackets while 20 percent of homeowners pay in these brackets. Since
median renter household income is significantly lower than median owner-occupied household
income, this raises concern about rental unit affordability.

  Figures 1 and 2: 2017 Monthly Renter-Occupied Household Costs (top) and Owner-Occupied
                                  Household Costs (bottom)

                            $3,000 or more    0, 0.0%
                           $2,500 to $2,999   0, 0.0%
                           $2,000 to $2,499   0, 0.0%
         Monthly Costs




                           $1,500 to $1,999                             373, 20.8%
                           $1,000 to $1,499                                            728, 40.7%
                              $800 to $999                          288, 16.1%
                              $500 to $799                 175, 9.8%
                              $300 to $499    0, 0.0%
                            Less than $300    6, 0.3%
                              No cash rent                   220, 12.3%


                            $3,000 or more    27, 0.3%
                           $2,500 to $2,999   11, 0.1%
                           $2,000 to $2,499      251, 3.1%
           Monthly Costs




                           $1,500 to $1,999                    1,251, 15.4%
                           $1,000 to $1,499                                          3,626, 44.8%
                              $800 to $999               721, 8.9%
                              $500 to $799              594, 7.3%
                              $300 to $499                  1,036, 12.8%
                            Less than $300              585, 7.2%
                              No cash rent    0, 0.0%



Data Source: ACS S2503




                                                                                                    26
Cost-Burdened Housing
HUD considers an affordable monthly housing payment for either an owner-occupied dwelling or
rented unit to be no greater than 30 percent of gross monthly income. This includes utilities and
other housing costs such as mortgage and hazard insurance. When monthly housing payments
cost more than 30 percent of gross monthly income, that household is said to be cost-burdened.
Households can be cost-burdened at any income level. The table below shows the 2017 rate of
cost-burden households in Kearns (Table 10). 2,627 households in Kearns experience cost-
burdened housing. Some households at all income-brackets experience cost-burdened housing.
The most cost-burdened group is households with income between $20,000 to $34,999 per year;
987 households in this bracket are cost-burdened. 1,880 of the 8,102 homeowner households are
cost-burdened, while 747 of the 1,790 renter-occupied households are cost-burdened. Between
owners and renters, renters experience a greater housing cost-burden (Table 11). Of particular
concern is that almost one-quarter of renters belonging to the second-lowest income bracket
($20,000 to $34,999) are cost-burdened.
Table 10: Percentage of Income going toward Housing, 2017




Data Source: ACS DP4



Table 11: Income Ranges who are Cost-Burdened with Housing by Occupancy, 2017




Data Source: ACS S2503




                                                                                              27
Housing and Land-use
Housing and land-use are tightly connected. Zoning strongly influences how housing and land-use
align. Zoning regulations determine the standards for new development, including building size,
lot size, and lot use. Therefore, understanding current zoning provides context for what affordable
housing opportunities are available based on existing conditions. Current zones within Kearns are
described briefly below:
   •   A-1 – Agricultural: low density residential development with limited agricultural uses
   •   C-2 – Community Commercial: neighborhood commercial development
   •   C-3 – Regional Commercial: warehousing, wholesale business, and commercial uses
   •   M-1 – Light Industrial: light industry such as animal hospitals or carpenter shop
   •   M-2 – Heavy Industrial: heavy industry such as cement mixing plant or paper treatment
   •   R-1-3 – Residential Single-Family Dwelling: only SFD
   •   R-1-5 – Residential Single-Family Dwelling: allows single-family project developments
   •   R-1-6 – Residential Single-Family Dwelling: SFD, allows greenhouse/nursery
   •   R-1-7 – Residential Single-Family Dwelling: 5.5 detached units per acre, 10k-3750k sq. ft.
   •   R-1-8 – Residential Single-Family Dwelling: SFD, allows greenhouse/nursery
   •   R-1-43 – Residential Single-Family Dwelling: SFD, allows guest house and four horses
   •   R-2-6.5 – Residential Single or Two-Family Dwelling: allows home business and agriculture
   •   R-4-8.5 – Residential High Density: allows two dwelling units per structure per lot
   •   R-M – Residential Multiple Family: high-density, includes business/professional offices
   •   RMH – Residential Mobile Home: allows accessory buildings and agriculture
Zones are often classified into six major categories: agricultural, commercial, industrial, planned
community, residential, and residential multi-family. About 89 percent of Kearns’s land area is
zoned residential. Most of the residential land is zoned for single-family dwellings (86 percent, or
1,998 acres), while three percent (74.7 acres) is zoned for multi-family dwellings. Two percent of
the land (about 50 acres) is zoned Agricultural. Commercial zones occupy 74.2 acres, or three
percent of the land. Industrial land covers 122.8 acres along the northwest border. No land is
zoned planned community.
Zoning in Kearns is predominantly residential (Figure 3 and Map 1: Zoning). The most common
residential zone is R 1-6 and R 1-6/zc. 55.95 percent of Kearns’ land is zoned R 1-6 or R 1-6/zc
(1,298 acres or 2 square miles). The second most common residential zone is R 1-7, which
occupies 375 acres or 16 percent of the land. 168 acres are zoned R 1-8, and 95 acres are zoned
R 1-43. R 1-6, R 1-7, and R 1-8 are single-family dwelling zones. R 1-43, while also a single-family
dwelling zone, has more permitted and conditional uses, such as fowl for family food production
or greenhouses. There are 17.2 acres of land zoned for medium residential density (zones 2-6.5
and 4-8.5). 29.2 acres are zoned for mobile home parks (zone RMH). 45.5 acres are zoned for
high-density residential (zones R-M and R-M/zc). 122.7 acres are zoned industrial (M1 or M2).
Zone M1 occupies 4 percent of Kearns’ land while zone M2 takes up 1.2 percent. 74.3 acres are
zoned commercial, with the majority zone C2 or C2/zc and only 0.4 acres zoned C3.




                                                                                                 28
Figure 3: Land Area (Percent of Total) of Major Zoning Categories in Kearns




Increased affordable housing can be created through several measures regarding land-use. Non-
residential zones can become mixed-use zones that allow residences. Residential zones with low
density can become higher density residential zone 2s. Infill development, or development of
vacant urban lots, greenfield sites, or brownfield sites, can increase housing in the already dense
areas of Kearns. A zoning analysis with a character area map shows where changes to zoning
regulations and land-use ordinances could be considered to increase affordable housing
opportunities (Map 1).




2
  Increasing density does not necessarily mean allowing high-rise apartment complexes. For a predominantly
single-family dwelling area, increasing density could occur without changing the housing scape, simply by allowing
Accessory Dwelling Units or the division of single-family dwellings into duplexes that still look like SFDs.

                                                                                                                29
Map 1: Zones in Kearns
Chapter Five - Housing Availability and Affordability

Indication of Need by Demographics
Kearns’s demographics and existing housing stock demonstrate the need
for certain characteristics for its current and future housing stock. 2,627
households in Kearns are currently cost-burdened, and Kearns is mostly
built-out. Kearns has sizeable populations under 18 and over 65. With a
young, quickly growing, and ethnically diverse population, Kearns will
need a variety of housing that accommodates children, working
professionals, and the elderly.


This context directs options for affordable housing opportunities in
Kearns. Both housing type and the location of housing matter for
accommodating housing needs. Housing located near schools, transit,
and other amenities can minimize transportation costs and logistic
difficulties for low-income, mobility-impaired, or single-parent
households. Proximity to amenities is also important for the elderly
population (eight percent of Kearns). Throughout this section, specific
housing availability and affordability needs are analyzed across income
groups, occupant type, and household sizes.
Targeted Income Groups and Affordability Thresholds
Income levels at 30 percent of AMI are considered “very low-income,” while those at 50 percent
are “low-income” and those at 80 percent are “moderate-income.” These 30, 50, and 80 percent
groups are targeted income groups. In the following table, targeted income groups are calculated
using both the area median income (Salt Lake County) value and the local median income (Kearns)
value (Table 12). Annual income was divided by twelve to give monthly household income.
Monthly housing allowance represents total housing costs affordable at 30 percent of gross
monthly income. This value is the upper limit that a household could pay without being housing
cost-burdened.
Table 12: 2017 Annual and Monthly Incomes and Housing Allowance




Data Source: ACS B25119



By using Salt Lake County’s AMI, calculations for Kearns may overestimate the community’s ability
to afford housing. For example, as shown in Table 11, 30 percent of Salt Lake County AMI is
$20,377, but 30 percent of Kearns’s median income is $17,863 (ACS B25119). Due to this
discrepancy, this plan recommends that officials and decision-makers understand the calculations
as conservative estimates and encourages communities to strive for making housing as affordable
as possible. The discrepancy is driven by differences in median owner-occupied household
income: $63,508 for Kearns while $83,922 for Salt Lake County (ACS B25119). However, median
renter household income in Kearns ($45,981) exceeds that of Salt Lake County ($42,351) (ACS
B25119). Due to the discrepancy between homeowner and renter households, targeted income
groups were calculated separately for each (Tables 13 and 14). To determine affordable rental
rates, a household would subtract anticipated monthly utility costs from the total monthly housing
allowance.




                                                                                               32
Tables 13 and 14: 2017 Annual and Monthly Incomes and Housing Allowance – Renters (top) and Owners (bottom)




    Data Source: ACS B25119
Targeted Income Groups by Family Size
The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) calculates income thresholds for
targeted income groups according to family household size. This helps decision-makers plan as
effectively for one-person or eight-person households as the traditional four-person household.
Table 15 below shows HUD calculations for income thresholds based on an inflation-adjusted
value of $75,400 3 for Salt Lake County’s 2017 median family income (MFI) 4.
Table 15: Salt Lake County 2017 HUD Median Family Income Thresholds by Household Size




Data Source: HUD “2017 Income Limits Documentation System”

Other Targeted Groups
When income is broken down according to demographic subsets, substantial differences among
their median household incomes becomes visible. These annual income differences lead to
monthly income differences and thus monthly housing allowance differences. This means that
specific subsets of people have different affordability thresholds (Table 16). The discrepancies
between median income of homeowners and renters, male and female householders, elderly
households, and others all translate into different thresholds for affordability.
Four demographic subsets fall significantly below the area median household value: elderly
householder, female non-family householder, single female householder, and Black or African
American householder. A single female raising her family at 30 percent AMI can only afford to pay
$293 per month toward housing. At 80 percent AMI, she can afford to pay $782 per month.
Values for the elderly and Black or African American households are similar. A female non-family
household can afford to pay $492 at 80 percent AMI.




3
 Note that median family income exceeds median household income for Salt Lake County in 2017.
4
 While HUD AMFI 2018 estimations are available, other data in this report is 2017. Therefore, we used HUD AMFI
2017 numbers to stay consistent.
Table 16: Other Targeted Groups – 2017 Annual and Monthly Incomes and Housing Allowance 5




Notes: The three rows in green are the three highest income levels and thus three highest monthly housing allowances. Those highlighted in red are the four
lowest values.
Data Source: ACS B25119 and S1903




5
 All calculations and numbers reported in this table are Kearns-specific (rather than county-based), unless they say “Area,” which refers to Salt Lake County
values. These numbers give a clear picture of demographic differences in income and thus affordability within Kearns.

                                                                                                                                                                35
Availability of Housing Units for Targeted Income Groups
All Households
Available houses were determined using current market research. According to www.realtor.com,
Kearns has 150 properties for sale within the metro township as of 27 August 2019. These
properties have a median listing price of $284,890. They have a median price per square foot of
$152. Assuming a ten percent down payment, 30-year mortgage, and a four percent interest rate,
these sale prices equate to a monthly payment of $2,112, including taxes, insurance, and interest
(www.zillow.com). At this price, households at 125 percent AMI could afford this payment, given
that utility and other costs are below $11.00 ($2,123 - $2,112). Households at 100 percent AMI
or below could not afford this payment.
On www.zillow.com, thirteen properties are listed for rent at a median price of $1,400 per month,
with a median of three bedrooms and two bathrooms. At this rate, these rentals are affordable
only to households at 100 percent AMI. Five of the rentals are affordable at 80 percent AMI.
Among all households in Kearns, 14 housing units are currently deed-restricted for moderate
income households (DWS “Five Year Housing Projection Calculator”). The federal government’s
LIHTC program subsidized these 14 units (DWS “Five Year Housing Projection Calculator”). They
are located in St. Andrews Park II and are available for households at 50 to 60 percent AMI
(affordablehousingonline.com).

Renter Households
Whether using local or area median income, renter households face a deficit of available housing
units. Using AMI, the deficit totals 112 units among targeted income groups and 485 units across
all income groups (Table 17). The second-lowest income group, 30 to 50 percent of AMI, lacks 81
units. The moderate-income group, 50 to 80 percent of AMI, needs 31 additional units.
The numbers resulting from calculations using local median income resemble those from the
above AMI calculations (Table 18). There is a deficit of 107 units among targeted income groups,
and a total deficit of 575 units across all income groups. For the 30 to 50 percent of local median
income group, there is a deficit of 107 units.




                                                                                                36
                         Table 17: Availability and Need of Existing Rental Housing in 2017, using AMI




Note: See Appendix for Explanation of Utility Cost Estimate
Data Source: ACS B25118, B25119, B25056, S2503


                  Table 18: Availability and Need of Existing Rental Housing in 2017, using Local HH Income




Note: See Appendix for Explanation of Utility Cost Estimate
Data Source: ACS B25118, B25119, B25056, S250

                                                                                                              37
Availability of affordable housing in Kearns has decreased over time (Table 19). In 2012, the deficit was 33 units (across targeted groups)
compared to 112 in 2017. However, the overall availability of housing (across all income groups) has improved during this time, from a
deficit of 959 units to 485 units. In terms of the number of available rental units per AMI group, the situation improved from 2012 to
2017 for one of the three targeted income groups. The less than 30 percent AMI group saw an increase in unit availability over that
time (gain of 180 units, from -33 to 147).
                                           Table 19: Availability and Need of Existing Rental Housing in 2012




                    Note: See Appendix for Explanation of Utility Cost Estimate
                    Data Source: ACS B25118, B25119, B25056, S2503

Projected Availability of Housing Units for Targeted Income Groups
Housing unit availability was projected using 2012 and 2017 data. The deficit in housing for targeted income groups was 33 in 2012 and
112 in 2017. Over that five-year period, this is a 239 percent increase. In other words, there was a 48 percent increase in the housing
deficit annually for targeted income groups. Carrying these numbers five years into the future 6, Kearns may have a shortage of 1,732
units for targeted income groups in 2024. While this number seems too large, it shows what Kearns could experience if current trends
continue. This sparks great concern and highlights the need for Kearns to be proactive with its housing policies.



6
    This projection was calculated using a forty-eight percent increase each year from 2017 through 2024.

                                                                                                                                        38
Chapter Six – Action Plan
The Action Plan is the most important part of the document. It provides concrete ways to achieve
in Kearns an environment conducive to successful moderate-income housing opportunities.
Feedback gathered from the public at the September 28, 2019 Housing Element Open House has
guided the action plan. Using results from the interactive mapping activities, the public comments
box, and the Menu Items voting exercise, planning staff has synthesized the Menu Items that the
public decided best suit their community. Additionally, planning staff has continued to take public
feedback through email and the phone.

The following goals and supporting strategies and actions aim to preserve, create, or otherwise
promote moderate-income housing opportunities in Kearns Metro Township.

Goal 1: Preserve current moderate-income housing.
Menu Item Utilized: L
       Strategy 1: Identify current MIH.
       Strategy 2: Establish a “Good Landlord Program.”
              Action 1: Create and adopt “Good Landlord Program.”
              Action 2: Achieve code enforcement.


Goal 2: Create more moderate-income housing options.
Menu Items Utilized: E, F, and G
       Strategy 1: Allow Accessory Dwelling Units.
              Action 1: Write and adopt an ADU Ordinance.
                   • Carefully define ADUs in ordinance
                   • Consider type of ADUs allowed
                   • Consider where ADUs should be allowed
       Strategy 2: Promote creation of Accessory Dwelling Units.
              Action 1: Identify partners that help with construction and/or conversion costs.
              Action 2: Disseminate funding assistance information to residents.
              Action 3: Use Map 2 (next page) to show ADU possibilities.
       Strategy 3: Require Developers to have moderate-income unit set-asides.
              Action 1: Decide set-aside specifications
              Action 2: Determine incentives to encourage developers to build MIH
              Action 3: Write and adopt Ordinance(s).



                                                                                                 39
Map 2: Potential ADU Sites in Kearns




                                       40
       Strategy 4: Partner with organizations and entities that build affordable housing.
              Action 1: Explore creative solutions, such as partnering with ICȮN, a 3D house
              printing company that builds affordable housing.
       Strategy 5: Consider zoning changes to allow higher density housing near the popular bus
       lines (4700 South and 5400 South) as well as near employment opportunities, specifically
       near the industrial and commercial zones in central-southern, central-northern, and
       eastern-central Kearns.
               Action 1: Identify these areas.
               Action 2: Write and adopt a new zoning Ordinance.


Goal 3: Support measures and efforts that contribute to neighborhood stabilization.
Menu Items Utilized: B and C
       Strategy 1: Identify and apply for grants and funding opportunities that do so.
              Action 1: Provide exterior curb-appeal grants to 10 homes per year through 2024
              (50 total).
              Action 2: Support applications and funding from the Green and Healthy Homes
              Initiative to conduct critical needs home repair in low and moderate-income
              housing.
              Action 3: Support applications and funding from the Utah Weatherization
              Assistance Program to help low-income residents, especially the elderly and
              disabled, to reduce energy consumption through home improvements.
              Action 4: Support applications and funding from Salt Lake Valley Habitat for
              Humanity to house families between 30 and 60 percent of the Area Median
              Income.
              Action 5: Support applications and funding from Assist Utah’s Emergency Home
              Repair, Accessibility Design, and Aging in Place programs.

       Strategy 2: Identify infrastructure investments that would further facilitate MIH and the
       success of MIH families.
              Action 1: Consider new transit routes and stops, improvements in transit
              frequency, and improvements in transit stations and stops.
              Action 2: Use the sidewalk inventory (forthcoming in Kearns 2020 Master
              Transportation Plan) and connect any sidewalk gaps to promote walkability and
              enhance the destination accessibility of non-automobile owners.




                                                                                             41
Chapter Seven – References

1. ESRI Business Analyst Online
         “Demographic and Income Profile”
         “Detailed Age Profile”
         “Housing Profile”

2. S. Manson, J. Schroeder, D. Van Riper, & S. Ruggles. IPUMS NGHIS: V13.0 [Database]. Minneapolis:
University of Minnesota. 2018.

3. Salt Lake County
         Planning and Development Services “Residential Permits”
         Geographic Information Systems – Zoning Data and Metro Township Boundaries

4. United States Census Bureau, American Community Survey
        Tables: B21100, B25056, B25118, B25119, DP1, DP2, DP3, DP4, S1810, S1901, S1903, S2101,
        S2503,

5. U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
         “2017 Income Limits Documentation System”
         “Affordable Housing Guide”

6. Utah Department of Workforce Services, Housing and Community Development Division, GoogleDrive
Database: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/15DWOQV9y-Su6as0RVGDvSicrkYrCqK1Z
        “A Moderate-Income Housing Element Outline”
        “DWS 5-Year Housing Projection Calculator”
        “Important Advice for Planning Moderate-Income Housing”
        “Moderate-Income Housing Writing Guide”
        “City of Meropis: Moderate-Income Housing Plan”
        “Salt Lake County: Moderate-Income Housing Plan 2017”
        “Sandy City General Plan: Section 3 Housing Needs”
        “South Salt Lake City: Moderate-Income Housing Plan”
        “State of Utah Affordable Housing Report 2018”
        “Snyderville Basin and East Summit County: Housing Affordability Assessment”

7. Utah League of Cities and Towns “Housing Policy in Utah” 2018

8. Utah Non-Profit Housing Corporation “https://unphc.org/housing/”

9. Websites:
       www.realtor.com
       www.mortgagecalculator.com
       www.zillow.com
       www.lowincomehousing.us




                                                                                                  42
Chapter Eight – Appendix

Topics
In this chapter, planning staff have written further explanations of several topics presented in
this plan. Each topic has a paragraph description as well as links to more resources. Some links
go to online databases with multiple resources. Resources are presented as sources of more
information and do not necessarily represent endorsement of specific policies or programs by
MSD planning staff.
Affordable Housing in General
The Utah Department of Workforce Services (DWS) has a shared GoogleDrive account with dozens
of resources. It holds all Moderate-Income Housing Plans within Utah that they have received. It
also has dozens of presentations on various topics and guides on writing housing plans. One
particularly helpful document is the Utah League of Cities and Towns (ULCT) “Keys to Housing
Policy in Utah.” It includes a glossary of housing terms, several strategies to promoting affordable
housing, and several case studies of communities throughout Utah. Another helpful document is
the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) guide: “Research on State and Local Means of
Increasing Affordable Housing.” It has strategies and case studies from across the nation. Pros
and cons are listed under each strategy as well as places where that strategy has been
implemented.
DWS General Database:
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1WEYWuTWX9z1ppDDGLX0JdC4PupyZcGoh
ULCT Guide:
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1IS1MWw3UbDG03TEW_V_P5wMIuwhmqTiW
NAHB Guide:
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1s2wwHXXVFHSt4inlDyBPPJCf8OTojSGk

Accessory Dwelling Units
Accessory Dwelling Units are a secondary dwelling (place to live) on the same lot as a single-family
home. They can be attached or detached, such as a basement apartment, a tiny house, a garage
apartment, or a mother-in-law apartment, as well as some others.
Salt Lake County Regional Development and the Wasatch Front Regional Council put together the
following presentation about ADUs. It includes data from research initiatives, issues, benefits, and
best practices. The presentation is available in PDF format at the link below.
SLCo and WFRC presentation: http://www.ulct.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/4/2015/09/ADU-
Presentation-by-Jake-Young-and-Ted-Knowlton-ULCT-2017.pdf


                                                                                                 43
Salt Lake City has an extensive guide on how to build ADUs. While it is based on Salt Lake City
ordinances, zoning, and rules, it includes great information on ADUs in general, especially its
illustrations on different ways to configure a single-family house and an ADU on a lot. Other
municipalities have informative ADU guides and regulations as well.
SLC: http://www.slcdocs.com/Planning/Guides/ADU_handbook.pdf
Cedar Hills: http://www.cedarhills.org/adu/
Kaysville: https://www.kaysvillecity.com/DocumentCenter/View/230/Accessory-Buildings-Guide-
PDF
Spanish Fork:
https://www.spanishfork.org/departments/community_development/planning/accessory_dwelli
ng_units.php
Good Landlord Program
Good Landlord Programs exist in many cities and towns in Utah, with each municipality adapting
the program to its community’s specific needs. They aim to incentivize good landlord behavior,
good tenant behavior, and good property management and upkeep. They are generally voluntary
incentive programs, where rental owners who choose to participate pay significantly reduced fees.
To participate, rental owners usually must take a course on being a good landlord, which is offered
by the Utah Apartment Association, be current on fees, sign a contract, and properly care for
properties.
Centerfield: https://www.centerfieldcity.org/good-landlord-program
North Salt Lake City: https://www.nslcity.org/DocumentCenter/View/769/Good-Landlord-
Program-Brochure-Apartments?bidId=
Ogden: https://www.ogdencity.com/203/Good-Landlord-Program
Salt Lake City: http://www.slcdocs.com/landlord/landlord_tenant.pdf
West Jordan: https://www.westjordan.utah.gov/good-landlord-program
Short-term Rentals
Short-term rentals are places that can be rented typically between one day to nine months. Places
are beginning to write ordinances regarding them. Ordinances for short-term rentals address
issues such as whether hosts must be permanent residents and for how long a person can stay in
a place and it be considered a short-term rental. Short-term rentals have positive and negative
externalities. Short-term rentals can be a vital second source of income for a household. However,
short-term rentals with absentee landlords and poor management can turn into eyesores. At the
same time, short-term rentals with absentee landlords can become overpriced vacation
destinations that negatively impact local affordability for neighbors.

                                                                                                44
This article highlights twelve cities across the United States that have implemented ordinances
regarding short-term rentals. The article includes links to more information.
Article: https://www.2ndaddress.com/research/short-term-rental-laws/
Zoning
Zoning is not an evil word. Zoning is the division of land into defined areas in which specific land
uses are allowed or prohibited. Zoning is intended to promote the health, safety, and wellbeing
of people by guiding land use decisions so that compatible uses are adjacent while incompatible
uses are separated. For example, zoning can be used to prevent the building of highly polluting
factories next to kindergartens or homes.
When zoning is appropriate and community-driven, it supports the goals of the community.
Kearns’ zoning code comes from Salt Lake County’s code, eventually Kearns’ code needs to be
updated to match Kearns’ wants and needs. One article below, the first link, explains the basics of
zoning. The second link goes to the website of the Land Use Academy of Utah (LUAU). It has a
short video on zoning. The website also hosts many other videos and articles about land use and
local government in Utah.
Article: https://propertymetrics.com/blog/zoning-laws/
LUAU Website: https://luau.utah.gov/2017/05/25/league-definitions-zoning/
The American Planning Association (APA) defines different types of zoning. Click on the link below
to learn more about these types. “Base” zoning is sometimes used to refer to the regular zoning
that most people are used to hearing about. “Overlay” zoning is another type of zoning. An
overlay zone is a rule applied over already established zones that may cross the boundaries of
different zones. For example, an overlay zone may allow ADUs across R 1-8 and R 1-21 zones
within 0.5 miles of bus stops. The base zones of R 1-8 and R 1-21 would stay the same. There is
an overlay zoning explanation on the APA website or on page 46 of the National Association of
Home Builders (NAHB) guide.
APA: https://www.planning.org/divisions/planningandlaw/propertytopics.htm
NAHB Guide: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1s2wwHXXVFHSt4inlDyBPPJCf8OTojSGk




                                                                                                 45
Example Ordinances

Good Landlord Program ordinances:
Salt Lake City: http://www.slcdocs.com/landlord/ordinance.pdf
Centerfield:
https://centerfield.municipalcodeonline.com/book?type=ordinances#name=3.80_Good_Landlor
d_Program
ADU ordinances:
North Salt Lake City: https://www.nslcity.org/DocumentCenter/View/1992/ADU-112118?bidId=
Cedar Hills: http://www.cedarhills.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/08/ordinance-07-17-2018A-
title-10-accessory-dwelling-units.pdf



List of Relevant Organizations and Websites

Resources are presented as sources of more information and do not necessarily represent
endorsement of specific policies or programs by MSD planning staff.


AAA Fair Credit Foundation: https://faircredit.org/about-us/
Affordable Housing Online: https://affordablehousingonline.com/
American Planning Association – National Website (APA): https://www.planning.org/
American Planning Association – Utah Chapter (APA Utah): https://www.apautah.org/
Assist Utah: https://assistutah.org/
Community Development Corporation of Utah (CDC Utah): https://cdcutah.org/im-a-
homeowner/home-repairs/
       Home Rehab Referral List: https://cdcutah.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/Rehab-
       Referral-List.pdf
Congress for the New Urbanism: https://www.cnu.org/resources
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (GSLMSD or MSD): https://msd.utah.gov/
Green and Healthy Homes Initiative: https://slco.org/green-healthy-homes/


                                                                                           46
Home Energy Assistance Target (HEAT) Program: https://affordablehousingonline.com/
Land Use Academy of Utah (LUAU): https://luau.utah.gov/
National Association of Home Builders (NAHB): https://www.nahb.org/
Salt Lake County Regional Development – Planning and Transportation:
https://slco.org/planning-transportation/
The Utah Land Use Institute: https://utahlanduse.org/land-use-library/
Utah Apartment Association: https://www.uaahq.org/
       Good Landlord Program class: https://www.uaahq.org/gll.html
Utah Center for Neighborhood Stabilization (UTCNS): http://www.utcns.com/
Utah Community Action – Weatherization Program (UCA):
https://www.utahca.org/weatherization/
Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT):
https://www.udot.utah.gov/main/f?p=100:6:0::::V,T:,1
Utah Department of Workforce Services (DWS): https://jobs.utah.gov/index.html
       Affordable Housing page: https://jobs.utah.gov/housing/affordable/index.html
Utah League of Cities and Towns (ULCT): http://www.ulct.org/
Utah Public Notice Website: https://www.utah.gov/pmn/index.html
Utah Transit Authority (UTA): https://www.rideuta.com/
Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC): https://wfrc.org/




                                                                                      47
Methods

Utility Cost Estimate Methods and Sources




Housing Availability and Need Calculations
See attached PDF for depiction of calculations using local (Kearns) values.
Process using AMI (Salt Lake County) values is the same but uses Salt Lake
County values.




                                                                              48
1        B            C          D            E       F       G                H            I           J            K              L                M             N             O         P          Q            R                       S                               T               U
2    Table B25118: Financial Characteristics, 2017 ACS 5-year data, Kearns            Table DP04, ACS 2017 5-year Data, Kearns                                                                        This is for Renters only. Owner Occupied is different.
                                         Kearns                                                                                Kearns
3                                                          Update data for your
                                                           geography and time period.
 4                                       Estimate                                                                              Estimate
 5   Total:                              9,892                                        Median household income in the past 12
 6    Owner occupied:                    8,102                                         Total:                                                     59,543
 7     Less than $5,000                  101                                           Owner occupied (dollars)                                   63,508
 8     $5,000 to $9,999                  22                                            Renter occupied (dollars)                                  45,981
 9     $10,000 to $14,999                156                                                                                                             Annual
10     $15,000 to $19,999                186                                                                                                             Top Income Max Rent (30% of Income Level per month)            Income Bracket                         # of Renter Households
11     $20,000 to $24,999                258                                                                                                    30% AMHI     $13,794     $345                                           Less than 30% AMHI ($13794)                       102
12     $25,000 to $34,999                726                                                                                                    50% AMHI     $22,991     $575                                           30%-50% AMHI ($13794-$22991)                      225
13     $35,000 to $49,999                1,307                                                                                                  80% AMHI     $36,785     $920                                           50%-80% AMHI ($22991-$36785)                      431
14     $50,000 to $74,999                2,198                                                                                                 100% AMHI     $45,981 $1,150                                             80%-100% AMHI ($36785-$45981)                     199
15     $75,000 to $99,999                1,754                                                                                                 125% AMHI     $57,476 $1,437                                             100%-125% AMHI ($45981-$57476)                    201
16     $100,000 to $149,999              1,062                                                                                                >125% AMHI   > $ 57476 > $ 1437                                           > 125% AMHI (> $57476)                            633
17     $150,000 or more                  332                                                                                                                                                                            Total Renter Households                          1,790
18    Renter occupied:                   1,790              <30%             30-50%     50-80%       80-100%     100-125%        >125%
19     Less than $5,000                  13                  13                                                                                    Calculate the income              Calculate the maximum
20     $5,000 to $9,999                  20                  20                                                                                    brackets for a rental gap         affordable rent for each
21     $10,000 to $14,999                91                  69                22                                                                  analysis by multiplying the       given income bracket.
22     $15,000 to $19,999                37                                    37                                                                  median renter household           Remember that cheaper
23     $20,000 to $24,999                278                                  166         112                                                      income by the percentage          rents are always
24     $25,000 to $34,999                280                                              280                                                      thresholds used to define         affordable to higher
25     $35,000 to $49,999                324                                               39          199           87                            the brackets (30%, 50%,           earning households--        Use the table on the far left to estimate the number of renter
26     $50,000 to $74,999                381                                                                        114            267                                                                           households in each income bracket of the renter gap analysis, as
27     $75,000 to $99,999                133                                                                                       133                                                                           I've typed in a more formatted way above. This is done by linear
28     $100,000 to $149,999              149                                                                                       149                                                                           interpolation.
29     $150,000 or more                  84                                                                                         84
30                                                                                                                                                                                                               Example:
31                               Sum of Columns:             102              225         431          199          201            633                1,790                                                      Less than 30% = all households earning $13,794 or less per year.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Referencing the table on the far left, this would include households in
32                                                                                                                                           Check Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 cells E19, E20, and a portion of those in E21. How many of those in E21
                                                                                                                                             Must be equal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 count here? Interpolate! The equation is:
         Median Estimation (Linear Interpolation) = ((M11-15000) / (19999-15000))*E22                                                       to Total Renter
                                                          ((Top Income - Lower end of Bracket))                 * # Renters                     Occupied #.                                                      ((13,794-10,000)/(14,999-10,000))*E21 = 69. So our # households in
                                                       (Top end of Bracket - Lower end of Bracket))              in Bracket                   If all 3 yellow                                                    the < 30% bracket is 13+20+69 = 102.
                                                                                                                                                 cells do not
                                                                                                                                                match then                                                       YOUR CHECK here is the sum, shown in cell T17. If this doesn't match
                                                                                                                                        something is wrong.                                                      the total shown in cell E18 and M31 (or is within about 1 due to

                                                                                                                               Sometimes this is more complicated since the income spread has a top end and a bottom end embedded in the Income Bracket.
                                                                                                                               When this happens, use the usual formula but subtract the previously calculated number.
                                                                                                                                    ((Top Income - Lower end of Bracket))        * # Renters minus (-) J24 [which was previously calculated]
                                                                                                                                 (Top end of Bracket - Lower end of Bracket))     in Bracket
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Don't forget to check this.
 1                      B                   C         D         E          F          G         H         I         J          K              L                  M                   N               O          P         Q            R   S
 2   2017 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates Kearns   Update data for your
 3                                    Kearns                  geography and time period.
 4                                    Estimate
 5   Total:                           1,790                                                       Max Rent                                                  Maximum Rent         # Rental Units
 6    With cash rent:                 1,570                                 $345      $575      $920      $1,150    $1,437    > $ 1437        30% AMHI                 $345                 232
 7    Less than $300                  6                                     226                                                               50% AMHI                 $575                 118
 8    $300 to $499                    28                                      6            22                                                 80% AMHI                 $920                 504
 9    $500 to $799                    383                                                  96       287                                      100% AMHI               $1,150                 358
10    $800 to $999                    360                                                           217       143                            125% AMHI               $1,437                 412
11    $1,000 to $1,499                717                                                                     216       412            89   >125% AMHI             > $ 1437                 165
12    $1,500 to $1,999                76                                                                                               76                 Total Rental Units              1,790
13    $2,000 to $2,499                0                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                             Calculate the number of rental housing units available in each range.
14    $2,500 to $2,999                0                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                             Notes:
15    $3,000 or more                  0                                                                                            -
16    No cash rent                    220
17                                                                          232        118          504       358       412        165       1. The "No cash rent" row (row 16) is included in the lowest maximum rent group.
18
                                                                                                                                             2. Check the sum presented in cell N12. This must match (or be within 1 due to rounding
19
                                                                                                                                             error) the total provided in cell C5 and L31.
20
21                                                                                                                                           3. The number of units in each income/rent bracket is interpolated in exactly the same
22                                                                                                                                           manner as we interpolated number of households in each income bracket. Maximum rent
23                                                                                                                                           of $345 is the sum of all lower rents (cells C7 and C16) plus the portion of cell B8 that
24                                                                                                                                           would go up to $345, which is (($345-$300)/($499-$300))*28=6. So the number of units
25                                                                                                                                           available at $345 or less is =sum(C7, C16, and F8) = 232.
26
27
28
29
                                                                                                                                                  1,790
Kearns Metro Township: Rental Affordability Gap Analysis, 2017
                                                                                                             Interpret the data and the GAP.
                                      Maximum                            # Rental Units    Surplus/Deficit
Income Range                          Affordable       # Households        Available          of Units
                                     Monthly Rent                         at that Price      Available
Less than 30% AMHI ($13794)               $345           102              232                   130
30%-50% AMHI ($13794-$22991)              $575           225              118                   -107         Reading Order: start from the bottom
50%-80% AMHI ($22991-$36785)              $920           431              504                    73
80%-100% AMHI ($36785-$45981)            $1,150          199              358                    160
100%-125% AMHI ($45981-$57476)           $1,437          201              412                    212
> 125% AMHI (> $57476)                  > $ 1437         633              165                   -468
Data source: US Census Bureau (Tables: DP04 and B25118 and B25056) ACS 2017 5-year data
                                                                                                             Fiercest Market (the GAP)
   NOTE: You always read the last column of this table from bottom to top. Wealthier households
   tend to rent below their maximum affordable rent, increasing market pressure in lower rent
   brackets. In this example, for instance, we would assume that the 468 households not
   accommodated by the highest rent units would rent in the next highest rent bracket, forcing
   those households to rent in the 80%-100% rent bracket, and so forth. In other words, wealthier
   households get "first dibs" on the rental market, and tend to rent at lower costs than their
   maximum affordable costs, so we assume that demand pushes pressure down market. In this
   particular example, we can see that the steepest competition for units is likely to occur in the
   30%-50% rent bracket, because lower income households will seek the lowest rents possible and
   the deficit of units for the wealthiest households will eat up many units in the 50%-100% brackets.
